



Download Request: Select Items: 501-1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:13:29
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 8:26 PM GMT

Terror at Woolwich barracks: Attacker tried to behead and disembowel British
soldier;
ITV shows shocking footage as PM asks Home Secretary to chair meeting of Cobra,
the Government's emergency committee

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta, Paul Peachey, Sanchez Manning, Nigel Morris

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 922 words


Terrorism returned to the streets of Britain today as a soldier was murdered by
two suspected Islamists who attempted to behead and disembowel him as he left
his barracks, in the first deadly attack since the 2005 London bombings.

One of the suspected killers, who addressed an onlooker with a camera, said the
pair had carried out the attack "because David Cameron, (the) British government
sent troops in Arabic country".

As pedestrians stood close by the armed men, he went on: "We swear by almighty
Allah we will never stop fighting you," according to footage obtained by ITV
News.

The soldier was ambushed by the two men as he left the base in Woolwich,
south-east London, who attacked him and then dragged his body into the middle of
the road to pose for photographs while standing over him waving a machete and a
gun, according to witnesses.

Mr Cameron was cutting short a meeting with European leaders to chair a meeting
of the emergency committee Cobra today as police and security services
investigate whether the two men - later shot and wounded by police - were
working alone or part of a bigger group.

"It's the most appalling crime," he told reporters in Paris. "We are obviously
urgently seeking the full facts but there are strong indications that it's a
terrorist incident."

He said that they were looking at every aspect of security for troops across
Britain, but he added: "The best way to defeat terrorism is to make sure you
continue to live your life and make sure that terrorism never wins."

London Mayor Boris Johnson added: "This afternoon's attack in Woolwich is a
sickening, deluded and unforgiveable act of violence."

The Independent understands the dead soldier - who was wearing a Help for Heroes
T-shirt - was a member of another regiment, currently based overseas.

Only hours after the attack was carried out, video footage of one of the
suspected killers emerged. With his hands bloodied and carrying a cleaver, he is
seen telling the bystander with a camera: "I apologise that women had to witness
this today but in our lands our women have to see the same. You people will
never be safe. Remove your governments - they don't care about you."

The man, who spoke English without a foreign accent, then saunters back across
the road towards his victim lying in the street to join his apparent accomplice.

The two men made no attempt to escape and charged a police car carrying an armed
response team when it arrived at the scene about 15 minutes after the killing,
according to a witness.

"The black guy ran at them with a meat cleaver before it stopped and he was
right by the car when they shot him," said Julia Wilders, 51, who lived close
by. The second man, who had a gun, was also shot, she said.

The men were taken to separate hospitals by air ambulance and ambulance last
night but they were expected to survive their injuries, according to police.

The men were believed to have waited outside the Woolwich barracks of the 2nd
Battalion Princess of Wales Royal Regiment, which has deployed to Afghanistan
and Iraq, where one of its members, Sergeant Johnson Beharry, won the VC.

Witnesses suggested that he left the barracks on foot when he was attacked in an
apparently pre-arranged ambush. Witness Graham Wilders said it appeared the man
had been rammed by a car and was attacked while he was propped up against a wall
of a block of flats.

One witness, identified only as James, said he and his partner saw two black men
attack a young man aged around 20 in a Help for Heroes T-shirt with kitchen
knives like he was "a piece of meat".

"They were hacking at this poor guy, literally," he told LBC Radio, adding that
a group of brave women tryied to shield the soldier from the two men.

"They were hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him. These two guys were
crazed. They were just animals. They dragged him from the pavement and dumped
his body in the middle of the road and left his body there."

Children returning from a school trip were kept locked inside nearby Mulgrave
Primary School while the police operation played out.

Home Secretary Theresa May is chairing a meeting of the Cobra emergency
committee after briefings from Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard
Hogan-Howe and the Director General of the Security Service, Andrew Parker.

Although there has been no official confirmation, Whitehall sources have
indicated they are working on the assumption that the murder is
terrorist-related.

"It has been confirmed to me that a man has been brutally murdered this
afternoon in South East London. Two other men were shot by armed police and they
are currently receiving treatment for their injuries....This is a sickening and
barbaric attack," Mrs May said.

Police had set up a series of cordons around the scene with extra police patrols
in the area and helicopters crossing the skies overhead. The Independent Police
Complaints Commission said it sent 12 investigators to the scene to investigate
the police shooting after reports of at least six shots being fired.

Islamists have threatened a number of times to behead a British soldier in
retaliation for involvement in wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. Six years ago a
group of British Pakistanis based in Birmingham were convicted of plotting such
an attack and their leader, Parviz Khan, received a life sentence.

Khan admitted planning to lure the soldier off the streets then film his
beheading. He was described in court as having the "most violent and extreme
Islamist views" and his aim was to deter any Muslim from joining the British
Army.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 8:04 PM GMT

We face new type of terror threat after Woolwich attack, says former Flying
Squad commander

BYLINE: Daniel Johnson

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 265 words


Terror experts said that the murder is a "departure" from previous attacks and
represents a "new round of terror threats in this country".

John O'Connor, the former Commander of the Flying Squad, warned that there is no
way of knowing if this is "a one-off incident".

Mr O'Connor told BBC News: "It seems to me that this is a departure from the
established type of attacks that you see or the established plans that you see
of terrorism causing mass murder.

"You just can't leave anything unprotected at the moment, and I think
individuals will clearly be briefed as to what they need to do to be able to
protect themselves, so you're into a new round of terror threats in this
country, particularly as you don't know the full extent of it.

"As you don't know that - and I don't suppose the authorities know that - they
have got to look at the worst case scenario.

"It is pretty horrific what has happened to this poor fella - to be murdered
outside his own barracks just because he's a soldier, or at least that's what it
looks like to me."

Mr O'Connor added that it is "very difficult to keep a tab" on what he described
as al Qaida "franchise operations".

He said: "The bottom line of it is that this could spring up anywhere and that's
the concern. It's very difficult to keep a tab on where this is going and where
the threat level is."

Lord West, former security minister added: "The fact Cobra has been called and
the Home Secretary is chairing it shows there are concerns that this was a
terrorist incident but we will have to wait to see all the data to see if it is
pure terror incident."

PA

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 7:50 PM GMT

Terror in Woolwich: Britain 'will not buckle' in the face of terrorist attacks,
says David Cameron after soldier is murdered in the street;
Prime Minister cuts short visit to France and will chair a session of
Whitehall's Cobra committee in the morning

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 458 words


David Cameron insisted Britain would "never buckle" in the face of terrorist
attacks as led condemnation of the "absolutely sickening" murder of a soldier in
Woolwich.

The Prime Minister cut short a meeting with the French President Francois
Hollande tonight to return early to London and will chair a session of
Whitehall's Cobra crisis committee tomorrow morning.

He told reporters in Paris: "There are strong indications it is a terrorist
incident. Two people at the scene of the murder were wounded by the police and
they are being treated as suspects."

Mr Cameron added: "The police and the security services in the UK will get all
of the support they need to deal with this, or indeed with any other incident."

He said the country's thoughts would be with the victim and his family and
friends.

"People across Britain, people in every community I believe will utterly condemn
this attack. We have had these sort of attacks before in our country and we
never buckle in the face of them," he said.

The Prime Minister is expected to ask the Commons Speaker, John Bercow, to
recall Parliament to give MPs an emergency statement on the attack.

An initial session of the Cobra committee, bringing together ministers, police
and the security services was convened tonight by Theresa May, the Home
Secretary. She said: This is a sickening and barbaric attack."

The meeting is understood to have considered whether the two alleged attackers
were acting alone or were part of a bigger network. Whitehall sources confirmed
the murder was being treated as a terrorist incident.

She was briefed on the attack by Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan Police
Commissioner, and Andrew Parker, the head of MI5.

The Mayor of London, Boris Johnson, tweeted: "This afternoon's attack in
Woolwich is a sickening deluded and unforgivable act of violence. My thoughts
are with the victim and his family."

A spokesman for Ed Miliband said the Labour leader was cutting short a visit to
Germany to return as soon as possible.

A Buckingham Palace spokesman said the Queen was concerned by news of the attack
and was being kept informed.

The spokesman also confirmed the Queen will visit the King's Troop Royal Horse
Artillery at Woolwich barracks on May 31, which was planned before today's
atrocity.

The Conservative MP Patrick Mercer, a former Army colonel, told the BBC: "It's
very reminiscent of a couple of incidents that have happened in Holland, where
individuals have been butchered in public and great play has been made of the
video footage.

"All the signs indicated this is a terrorist attack. If that is the case it's a
very carefully thought-through thing. It's obviously carefully planned.

"Of course we need to be careful about similar attacks happening in the future."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 7:39 PM GMT

'Soldier beheaded' in street as two shot in suspected terrorist attack near
Woolwich barracks - 'attacker' shown in video saying 'We will never stop
fighting you';
ITV shows shocking footage as PM asks Home Secretary to chair meeting of Cobra,
the Government's emergency committee

BYLINE: Majid Mohamed

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 755 words


A man believed to be a soldier has been beheaded in an attack on a street near
the Woolwich barracks in London, witnesses report.

Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford confirmed tonight that two men
were shot by armed officers.

Exclusive ITV footage shows that one man was filmed wielding a bloodied meat
cleaver and saying: "We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting
you."

He adds: "We must fight them as they fight us. An eye for an eye, a tooth for a
tooth. I apologise that women have had to witness this today, but in our land
our women have to see the same. You people will never be safe. Remove your
government, they don't care about you."

He said there is a "strong indication" the attack was a terrorist incident.

Prime Minister David Cameron described the killing as "absolutely sickening...
a most appalling crime" and asked the Home Secretary Theresa May to chair a
meeting of Cobra, the Government's emergency committee. He added: "We have had
these sorts of attacks before in our country and we never buckle in the face of
them."

He is returning to London early from a meeting in Paris.

Mrs May tonight confirmed she has been briefed by the Director General of the
Security Service MI5 and the Met commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe on the
"sickening and barbaric'' incident in Woolwich.

She said: "It has been confirmed to me that a man has been brutally murdered
this afternoon in south-east London. Two other men were shot by armed police and
they are currently receiving treatment for their injuries."

One Whitehall source said the attackers were heard to shout 'Allah Akbar'.

Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford said in a statement: "At
approximately 1420 we were called to reports of an assault in John Wilson
Street, Woolwich, where one man was being assaulted by two other men.

"A number of weapons were reported as being used in the attack, and this
included reports of a firearm. Officers including local Greenwich officers
arrived at the scene and shortly after firearms officers attended the scene.

"On their arrival at the scene they found a man, who was later pronounced dead.
At this early stage I am unable to provide any further information about the man
who has died.

"Two men, who we believe from early reports to have been carrying weapons, were
shot by police. They have both been taken to separate London hospitals. They are
receiving treatment for their injuries."

Several witnesses described seeing a "beheading" as a man was reportedly
attacked with a machete-style weapon and dumped in a south-east London street.

Woolwich and Greenwich MP Nick Raynsford said he understood that a serving
soldier was dead. The Ministry of Defence have not confirmed whether the dead
man was a soldier.

London Air Ambulance confirmed a man was found dead as one patient was airlifted
from the scene, while another was taken away by road ambulance.

The incident occurred some 200 yards from the Royal Artillery Barracks, adjacent
to Woolwich Common, the historical home of the Royal Artillery. The barracks,
also known as the Woolwich station, now houses a number of the King's Troop
Royal Horse Artillery and independent companies of the Grenadier and Coldstream
Guards.

One witness to the attack, identified only as James, said he and his partner saw
two men attack a young man aged around 20 like he was "a piece of meat".

"They were hacking at this poor guy, literally," he told LBC radio. "They were
hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him. These two guys were crazed. They were
just animals. They dragged him from the pavement and dumped his body in the
middle of the road and left his body there."

"They were oblivious to anything, they were more worried about having their
photo taken, running up and down the road."

Local head teacher David Dixon told the BBC News Channel he walked out of the
school gates and saw a body lying in the road a short distance away. He then
heard gunshots.

"All the traffic had stopped. There were gunshots after that so I am not sure
about the situation after," he told BBC News. But all I needed to know was that
there was an emergency and we needed to go into our emergency procedures to make
sure that the children were as safe as possible. That was my main priority.

"We got all the staff to get the children in because some of them were outside
doing activities. We locked all the gates. I and some of my senior staff liaised
with police to find out what we needed to do after that."

He said the air ambulance had landed in the playground of the school.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 7:35 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: We face new type of terror threat, says former Flying Squad
commander

BYLINE: Daniel Johnson

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 265 words


Terror experts said that the murder is a "departure" from previous attacks and
represents a "new round of terror threats in this country".

John O'Connor, the former Commander of the Flying Squad, warned that there is no
way of knowing if this is "a one-off incident".

Mr O'Connor told BBC News: "It seems to me that this is a departure from the
established type of attacks that you see or the established plans that you see
of terrorism causing mass murder.

"You just can't leave anything unprotected at the moment, and I think
individuals will clearly be briefed as to what they need to do to be able to
protect themselves, so you're into a new round of terror threats in this
country, particularly as you don't know the full extent of it.

"As you don't know that - and I don't suppose the authorities know that - they
have got to look at the worst case scenario.

"It is pretty horrific what has happened to this poor fella - to be murdered
outside his own barracks just because he's a soldier, or at least that's what it
looks like to me."

Mr O'Connor added that it is "very difficult to keep a tab" on what he described
as al Qaida "franchise operations".

He said: "The bottom line of it is that this could spring up anywhere and that's
the concern. It's very difficult to keep a tab on where this is going and where
the threat level is."

Lord West, former security minister added: "The fact Cobra has been called and
the Home Secretary is chairing it shows there are concerns that this was a
terrorist incident but we will have to wait to see all the data to see if it is
pure terror incident."

PA

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 6:42 PM GMT

'Soldier beheaded' in street as two shot in suspected terrorist attack near
Woolwich barracks;
PM asks Home Secretary to chair meeting of Cobra, the Government's emergency
committee

BYLINE: Majid Mohamed

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 623 words


A man believed to be a soldier has been beheaded in an attack on a street near
the Woolwich barracks in London, witnesses report.

Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford confirmed tonight that two men
were shot by armed officers.

Prime Minister David Cameron has described the killing as "truly shocking" and
has asked the Home Secretary Theresa May to chair a meeting of Cobra, the
Government's emergency committee dealing with incidents that have implications
for national security. He is returning to London early from an EU meeting.

The Government is reported to be treating it as a suspected terrorist incident.
Mrs May tonight confirmed she has been briefed by the Director General of the
Security Service MI5 and the Met commissioner Sir Barnard Hogan-Howe on the
"sickening and barbaric'' incident in Woolwich.

She said: ""It has been confirmed to me that a man has been brutally murdered
this afternoon in south-east London. Two other men were shot by armed police and
they are currently receiving treatment for their injuries."

The Press Association is reporting that one Whitehall source said the attackers
were heard to shout 'Allah Akbar'.

Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford said in a statement: "At
approximately 1420 we were called to reports of an assault in John Wilson
Street, Woolwich, where one man was being assaulted by two other men.

"A number of weapons were reported as being used in the attack, and this
included reports of a firearm. Officers including local Greenwich officers
arrived at the scene and shortly after firearms officers attended the scene.

"On their arrival at the scene they found a man, who was later pronounced dead.
At this early stage I am unable to provide any further information about the man
who has died.

"Two men, who we believe from early reports to have been carrying weapons, were
shot by police. They have both been taken to separate London hospitals. They are
receiving treatment for their injuries."

Several witnesses described seeing a "beheading" as a man was reportedly
attacked with a machete-style weapon and dumped in a south-east London street.

Woolwich and Greenwich MP Nick Raynsford said he understood that a serving
soldier was dead. The Ministry of Defence have not confirmed whether the dead
man was a soldier.

London Air Ambulance confirmed a man was found dead as one patient was airlifted
from the scene, while another was taken away by road ambulance.

One witness, identified only as James, said he and his partner saw two men
attack a young man aged around 20 like he was "a piece of meat".

"They were hacking at this poor guy, literally," he told LBC radio. "They were
hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him. These two guys were crazed. They were
just animals. They dragged him from the pavement and dumped his body in the
middle of the road and left his body there."

"They were oblivious to anything, they were more worried about having their
photo taken, running up and down the road."

Local head teacher David Dixon told the BBC News Channel he walked out of the
school gates and saw a body lying in the road a short distance away, he then
heard gunshots.

"All the traffic had stopped. There were gunshots after that so I am not sure
about the situation after," he told BBC News.

"But all I needed to know was that there was an emergency and we needed to go
into our emergency procedures to make sure that the children were as safe as
possible. That was my main priority.

"We got all the staff to get the children in because some of them were outside
doing activities. We locked all the gates. I and some of my senior staff liaised
with police to find out what we needed to do after that."

He said the air ambulance had landed in the playground of the school.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 6:15 PM GMT

'Soldier beheaded' in street as two shot in suspected terrorist attack outside
Woolwich barracks;
PM asks Home Secretary to chair meeting of Cobra, the Government's emergency
committee

BYLINE: Majid Mohamed

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 604 words


A man believed to be a soldier has been beheaded in an attack on a street
outside the Woolwich barracks in London, witnesses report.

Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford confirmed tonight that two men
were shot by armed officers.

Prime Minister David Cameron has described the killing as "truly shocking" and
said he had asked the Home Secretary Theresa May to chair a meeting of Cobra,
the Government's emergency committee. According to the BBC she has also
requested updates from the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Bernard
Hogan-Howe, and the head of MI5. The Government is reported to be treating it as
a suspected terrorist incident.

Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford said in a statement: "At
approximately 1420 we were called to reports of an assault in John Wilson
Street, Woolwich, where one man was being assaulted by two other men.

"A number of weapons were reported as being used in the attack, and this
included reports of a firearm.

"Officers including local Greenwich officers arrived at the scene and shortly
after firearms officers attended the scene.

"On their arrival at the scene they found a man, who was later pronounced dead.
At this early stage I am unable to provide any further information about the man
who has died.

"Two men, who we believe from early reports to have been carrying weapons, were
shot by police. They have both been taken to separate London hospitals. They are
receiving treatment for their injuries."

Several witnesses described seeing a "beheading" as a man was reportedly
attacked with a machete and dumped in a south-east London street.

Witnesses told the Press Association that two people were shot after armed
police were called to an incident in which a man was attacked with a
machete-style knife.

Woolwich and Greenwich MP Nick Raynsford said he understood that a serving
soldier was dead.

The incident happened close to Woolwich Barracks but the Ministry of Defence
have not confirmed whether the dead man was a soldier.

London Air Ambulance confirmed a man was found dead as one patient was airlifted
from the scene, while another was taken away by road ambulance.

One witness, identified only as James, said he and his partner saw two men
attack a young man aged around 20 like he was "a piece of meat".

"They were hacking at this poor guy, literally," he told LBC radio.

"They were hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him. These two guys were
crazed.

"They were just animals. They dragged him from the pavement and dumped his body
in the middle of the road and left his body there."

"They were oblivious to anything, they were more worried about having their
photo taken, running up and down the road," he said.

"It's horrendous what they were doing to that guy."

The Independent Police Complaints Commission, called in whenever firearms
officers shoot people, confirmed it was investigating.

Local head teacher David Dixon told the BBC News Channel he walked out of the
school gates and saw a body lying in the road a short distance away, he then
heard gunshots.

"All the traffic had stopped. There were gunshots after that so I am not sure
about the situation after," he told BBC News.

"But all I needed to know was that there was an emergency and we needed to go
into our emergency procedures to make sure that the children were as safe as
possible. That was my main priority.

"We got all the staff to get the children in because some of them were outside
doing activities. We locked all the gates. I and some of my senior staff liaised
with police to find out what we needed to do after that."

He said the air ambulance had landed in the playground of the school.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 7:19 PM GMT

'We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you': Chilling words of
bloodied man 'after he hacked soldier in Help For Heroes T-shirt to death in
terror attack'

BYLINE: ROB COOPER, MARK DUELL and JAMES RUSH

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1473 words



     ·    Man tells camera: 'I apologise that women had to witness this today'
     ·    Soldier attacked with meat cleavers and knives in Woolwich, SE London
     ·    Eyewitness says: 'They were hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him'
     ·    Two suspects waited until police arrived before trying to attack them
     ·    Prime Minister David Cameron described the killing as 'truly shocking'
     ·    Theresa May calls a meeting of Government emergency committee Cobra
     ·    Suspects used 'a number of weapons' in attack, Metropolitan Police say


A dramatic video tonight emerged of a man with bloodied hands, carrying knives
and ranting 'We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you', after
a serving soldier was hacked to death by two men just 200 yards from an Army
barracks.

The man can be seen and heard talking to the camera. The video came as terrified
eyewitnesses saw two men shot by police marksmen after the machete attack in
Woolwich, south-east London.

The two men are thought to have waited around for 20 minutes until Metropolitan
Police officers arrived and then tried to attack them - but were swiftly shot by
armed policemen, including a woman.

They apparently shouted 'Allah Akbar', which means 'God is great' in Arabic, and
tried to film the attack, the BBC's political editor Nick Robinson said.

Scroll down for videos

Theresa May tonight called a meeting of the Government's emergency Cobra
committee  in response to the machete and knife attack on the man who was
wearing a Help for Heroes t-shirt.

The Home Secretary  said she had been briefed on the killing by the head of MI5
and police later confirmed they were treating the incident as a possible terror
attack.

Meanwhile Prime Minister David Cameron cancelled a meeting with French President
Francois Hollande to return to London.

Before the dramatic video of the bloodied man was obtained by  ITV News,
eyewitnesses said the 'crazed' men in their 20s launched a ferocious attack and
were 'hacking, chopping and cutting him.'

In footage released by ITV News, a man with bloodied hands carrying a knife and
a machete addresses people holding a camera, where he appears to attempt to
justify the incident.

Speaking to those recording the scene he says: 'I apologise that women had to
witness this today, but in our land our women have to see the same.

'You people will never be safe. Remove your government, they don't care about
you.'

Following his outburst, the man walks back towards where the victim is lying in
the middle of the road. He then speaks to another man as they stand near to the
victim.

Women are later seen bravely tending to the man lying. The footage appears to
have been taken before any of the emergency services have arrived at the scene.

Later footage has also emerged from shortly after police fired at two men. One
of the men can be seen lying in the road, while the second is laid on the
pavement.

The footage taken after the shootings was reported to have been taken by a man
who had been on a bus on his way to a job interview.

Mr Cameron said on Twitter that 'the killing in Woolwich is truly shocking - I
have asked the Home Secretary to chair a Cobra meeting.'

This afternoon the area's MP, Nick Raynsford, told BBC Radio 5 Live he believed
the victim, a man aged in his 20s, was a serving soldier.

The man is believed to have been hacked to death after a car crash. The scene of
the attack is just 200 yards from Woolwich Barracks.

Mr Raynsford said: 'We think a serving soldier was the victim. We don't know the
circumstances surrounding the incident. We do know a number of weapons have been
seized.

'They include a gun, various knives, and a machete, apparently. The police
clearly had to take action in order to try and arrest these individuals.'

The Ministry of Defence said it was urgently looking at the reports that the
incident involved a soldier but had no further comment.

Footage from a TV news helicopter showed a large number of weapons lying in the
street following the incident. A London Ambulance Service spokesman said one man
had died at the scene.

He added: 'Our staff treated two others. Both men were taken to hospital, one of
them is in a serious condition, the other is not.'

One witness, identified as James, said he and his partner saw two black men
attack the young victim with knives, including a meat cleaver. 'They were
hacking at this poor guy, literally,' he told LBC.

Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford confirmed tonight that the two
attackers were shot by armed officers.

He said in a statement: 'At approximately 1420 we were called to reports of an
assault in John Wilson Street, Woolwich, where one man was being assaulted by
two other men.

'A number of weapons were reportedly being used in the attack and this included
reports of a firearm.

'Officers including local Greenwich officers arrived at the scene and shortly
after firearms officers arrived on the scene.

'On their arrival at the scene they found a man, who was later pronounced dead.
At this early stage I am unable to provide any further information about the man
who has died.

ROYAL ARTILLERY BARRACKS

The incident occurred some 200 yards from the Royal Artillery Barracks, adjacent
to Woolwich Common, the historical home of the Royal Artillery.

The barracks, also known as the Woolwich station, now houses a number of the
King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery and independent companies of the Grenadier
and Coldstream Guards.

Woolwich Common remains a designated military training area.

The shooting events at the 2012 Summer Olympics and Paralympics were held at a
temporary venue at the Barracks.

'Two men, who we believe from early reports to have been carrying weapons, were
shot by police. They were taken to separate London hospitals. They are receiving
treatment for their injuries.

'I can understand that this incident will cause community concerns and I would
like to reiterate that we are investigating what has taken place today.

Luke Huseyin, 32, who lives in a block of flats on John Wilson Street, Woolwich,
close to where the incident happened said he watched two men murder a man before
being shot.

He said: 'I was at home and heard a big bang. I looked out of the window and saw
a car had crashed.

'It was a blue Vauxhall. Then two black guys got out of the car dragging a white
guy across the road towards the wall. One of the guys had a knife that looked
about a foot long and a machete and the other bloke had a gun.

'They started slashing him up with the knife and hitting him in the stomach with
the machete. I don't think it took long before he was dead. There were people
passing by who were screaming and running away. I've never seen anything like
it.

'I'm still really shaken up. When he was dead, they dragged him out into the
road and left him there.

'It was strange, they didn't run off, they just stood there as if they were
waiting for the police.

'It must've taken about 20 minutes for the police to arrive, I think it must've
been because they were waiting for armed police.

'The police officers got out of the car and the two black men ran towards them
with the gun.

'The police shot them. They fell to the ground. Then a helicopter landed. Think
it must've been an air ambulance.

'The paramedics got out and I think they were working on the two men to try and
keep them alive.

'I don't know if they died, they were taken away in the helicopter. A blanket
was put over the white guy lying in the road. 'I just can't believe what I saw.'

Mother-of-four Julia Wilders, 51, said she was travelling past the scene and saw
two men hacking at a man with meat cleavers.

'Graham was driving and we drove past the car which was up against a lamp post.

'There were two black guys that looked like they were trying to resuscitate a
white guy on the floor. I thought there'd been an accident.

'But then I saw they were using meat cleavers to hack him up. We live just
behind where it happened and once we got back we walked back to have a look and
that's when I saw one of the black guys pull out a handgun.

'My husband screamed at me to get back. I was petrified. As I was running back I
saw the police pull up and the black guy was running towards the police car and
they shot him.

'I didn't see anything else, I just run back home.'

David Dixon is the headteacher of Mulgrave Primary School, which is located
about 50 metres from the scene of the incident. He saw a body in the road after
realising something was happening and immediately locked down the school.

He said: 'It was at the end of our road. As soon as we realised it was serious I
went to see what had happened and then told staff to lock down the school and
get the children inside. I spoke to police to ask what we should do.

'There seemed to be a body in the middle of the road. The traffic was backed up
and the police were on the scene.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 7:08 PM GMT

'We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you': Chilling words of
bloodied man 'after he hacked soldier in Help For Heroes T-shirt to death in
terror attack'

BYLINE: ROB COOPER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1264 words



     ·    Soldier attacked with meat cleavers and knives in Woolwich, SE London
     ·    Eyewitness says: 'They were hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him'
     ·    Two suspects waited until police arrived before trying to attack them
     ·    Prime Minister David Cameron described the killing as 'truly shocking'
     ·    Theresa May calls a meeting of Government emergency committee Cobra
     ·    Suspects used 'a number of weapons' in their attack, police say


A dramatic video emerged tonight of a man with bloodied hands, carrying knives
and ranting 'We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you', after
a serving soldier was hacked to death by two men just 200 yards from an Army
barracks.

The man can be seen and heard talking to the camera in footage obtained by ITV
News.

It came as terrified eyewitnesses saw two men shot by police marksmen after the
machete attack in Woolwich, south-east London.

It is thought that the two men waited around for 20 minutes until police arrived
and then tried to attack them - but were swiftly shot by armed officers
including a woman.

They apparently shouted 'Allah Akbar', which means 'God is great' in Arabic, and
tried to film the attack, the BBC's political editor Nick Robinson said.

Theresa May tonight called a meeting of the Government's emergency Cobra
committee  in response to the machete and knife attack on the man who was
wearing a Help for Heroes t-shirt.

The Home Secretary  said she had been briefed on the killing by the head of MI5
and police later confirmed they were treating the incident as a possible terror
attack.

Scroll down for video

Eyewitnesses said the 'crazed' men, aged in their 20s, launched a ferocious
attack and were 'hacking at him, chopping him and cutting him.'

Prime Minister David Cameron said on Twitter that 'the killing in Woolwich is
truly shocking - I have asked the Home Secretary to chair a Cobra meeting.'

This afternoon the area's MP, Nick Raynsford, told BBC Radio 5 Live he believed
the victim, a man aged in his 20s, was a serving soldier.

The man is believed to have been hacked to death after a car crash. The scene of
the attack is just 200 yards from Woolwich Barracks.

Mr Raynsford said: 'We think a serving soldier was the victim. We don't know the
circumstances surrounding the incident. We do know a number of weapons have been
seized.

'They include a gun, various knives, and a machete, apparently. The police
clearly had to take action in order to try and arrest these individuals.'

The Ministry of Defence said it was urgently looking at the reports that the
incident involved a soldier but had no further comment.

Footage from a TV news helicopter showed a large number of weapons lying in the
street following the incident. A London Ambulance Service spokesman said one man
had died at the scene.

He added: 'Our staff treated two others. Both men were taken to hospital, one of
them is in a serious condition, the other is not.'

One witness, identified as James, said he and his partner saw two black men
attack the young victim with knives, including a meat cleaver. 'They were
hacking at this poor guy, literally,' he told LBC.

Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford confirmed tonight that the two
attackers were shot by armed officers.

He said in a statement: 'At approximately 1420 we were called to reports of an
assault in John Wilson Street, Woolwich, where one man was being assaulted by
two other men.

'A number of weapons were reportedly being used in the attack and this included
reports of a firearm.

'Officers including local Greenwich officers arrived at the scene and shortly
after firearms officers arrived on the scene.

'On their arrival at the scene they found a man, who was later pronounced dead.
At this early stage I am unable to provide any further information about the man
who has died.

ROYAL ARTILLERY BARRACKS

The incident occurred some 200 yards from the Royal Artillery Barracks, adjacent
to Woolwich Common, the historical home of the Royal Artillery.

The barracks, also known as the Woolwich station, now houses a number of the
King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery and independent companies of the Grenadier
and Coldstream Guards.

Woolwich Common remains a designated military training area.

The shooting events at the 2012 Summer Olympics and Paralympics were held at a
temporary venue at the Barracks.

'Two men, who we believe from early reports to have been carrying weapons, were
shot by police. They were taken to separate London hospitals. They are receiving
treatment for their injuries.

'I can understand that this incident will cause community concerns and I would
like to reiterate that we are investigating what has taken place today.

Luke Huseyin, 32, who lives in a block of flats on John Wilson Street, Woolwich,
close to where the incident happened said he watched two men murder a man before
being shot.

He said: 'I was at home and heard a big bang. I looked out of the window and saw
a car had crashed.

'It was a blue Vauxhall. Then two black guys got out of the car dragging a white
guy across the road towards the wall. One of the guys had a knife that looked
about a foot long and a machete and the other bloke had a gun.

'They started slashing him up with the knife and hitting him in the stomach with
the machete. I don't think it took long before he was dead. There were people
passing by who were screaming and running away. I've never seen anything like
it.

'I'm still really shaken up. When he was dead, they dragged him out into the
road and left him there.

'It was strange, they didn't run off, they just stood there as if they were
waiting for the police.

'It must've taken about 20 minutes for the police to arrive, I think it must've
been because they were waiting for armed police.

'The police officers got out of the car and the two black men ran towards them
with the gun.

'The police shot them. They fell to the ground. Then a helicopter landed. Think
it must've been an air ambulance.

'The paramedics got out and I think they were working on the two men to try and
keep them alive.

'I don't know if they died, they were taken away in the helicopter. A blanket
was put over the white guy lying in the road. 'I just can't believe what I saw.'

Mother-of-four Julia Wilders, 51, said she was travelling past the scene and saw
two men hacking at a man with meat cleavers.

'Graham was driving and we drove past the car which was up against a lamp post.

'There were two black guys that looked like they were trying to resuscitate a
white guy on the floor. I thought there'd been an accident.

'But then I saw they were using meat cleavers to hack him up. We live just
behind where it happened and once we got back we walked back to have a look and
that's when I saw one of the black guys pull out a handgun.

'My husband screamed at me to get back. I was petrified. As I was running back I
saw the police pull up and the black guy was running towards the police car and
they shot him.

'I didn't see anything else, I just run back home.'

David Dixon is the headteacher of Mulgrave Primary School, which is located
about 50 metres from the scene of the incident. He saw a body in the road after
realising something was happening and immediately locked down the school.

He said: 'It was at the end of our road. As soon as we realised it was serious I
went to see what had happened and then told staff to lock down the school and
get the children inside. I spoke to police to ask what we should do.

'There seemed to be a body in the middle of the road. The traffic was backed up
and the police were on the scene.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 6:13 PM GMT

Two men 'hack soldier wearing Help for Heroes T-shirt to death with machetes in
suspected terror attack in London street before being shot by police'

BYLINE: ROB COOPER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1249 words



     ·    Theresa May calls a meeting of the government's emergency committee
          Cobra
     ·    Soldier attacked with meat cleavers and knives in Woolwich
     ·    Eyewitness says: 'They were hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him'
     ·    Two suspects waited until police arrived before trying to attack them
     ·    Prime Minister David Cameron described the killing as 'truly shocking'
     ·    Suspects used 'a number of weapons' in their attack, police say


Two people were today believed to have been shot by armed police after hacking a
soldier to death with a machete in a suspected terror attack.

Home Secretary Theresa May tonight called a meeting of the Government's
emergency Cabinet committee Cobra in response to the incident in Woolwich,
south-east London.

The soldier, wearing a Help for Heroes t-shirt, was attacked with knives and
meat cleavers following a car crash.

The two men who carried out the attack apparently shouted 'Allahu Akbar', which
means God is great in Arabic, and tried to film the attack, the BBC's political
editor Nick Robinson said.

It is thought that the two men waited around for 20 minutes until police arrived
and then tried to attack them - but were swiftly shot by armed officers.

Eyewitnesses said the 'crazed' men, aged in their 20s, launched a ferocious
attack and were 'hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him.'

Scroll down for video

Prime Minister David Cameron wrote on Twitter that 'the killing in Woolwich is
truly shocking - I have asked the Home Secretary to chair a COBRA meeting.'

This afternoon the area's MP, Nick Raynsford, told BBC Radio 5 Live he believed
the victim, a man aged in his 20s, was a serving soldier.

The man is believed to have been hacked to death after a car crash. The scene of
the attack is just 200 yards from Woolwich Barracks.

Mr Raynsford said: 'We think a serving soldier was the victim. We don't know the
circumstances surrounding the incident.

'We do know a number of weapons have been seized. They include a gun, various
knives, and a machete, apparently.

'The police clearly had to take action in order to try and arrest these
individuals.'

The Ministry of Defence said it was urgently looking at the reports that the
incident involved a soldier but had no further comment.

Footage from a television news helicopter showed a large collection of weapons
lying in the street in Woolwich following the incident.

A spokesman for the London Ambulance Service said one man had died at the scene.

He said: 'Our staff treated two others. Both men were taken to hospital, one of
them is in a serious condition, the other is not.'

One witness, identified as James, said he and his partner saw two black men
attack the young victim with knives, including a meat cleaver.

'They were hacking at this poor guy, literally,' he told LBC. 'They were hacking
at him, chopping him, cutting him.'

Fighting back tears, James said the men treated their victim as a 'piece of
meat' after he was dead.

'These two guys were crazed,' he told the radio station. 'They were just
animals. They dragged him from the pavement and dumped his body in the middle of
the road and left his body there.'

Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford confirmed tonight that the two
attackers were shot by armed officers.

He said in a statement: 'At approximately 1420 we were called to reports of an
assault in John Wilson Street, Woolwich, where one man was being assaulted by
two other men.

'A number of weapons were reportedly being used in the attack, and this included
reports of a firearm.

'Officers including local Greenwich officers arrived at the scene and shortly
after firearms officers arrived on the scene.

'On their arrival at the scene they found a man, who was later pronounced dead.
At this early stage I am unable to provide any further information about the man
who has died.

'Two men, who we believe from early reports to have been carrying weapons, were
shot by police. They were taken to separate London hospitals. They are receiving
treatment for their injuries.

'I can understand that this incident will cause community concerns and I would
like to reiterate that we are investigating what has taken place today.

The incident occurred near the Royal Artillery Barracks, adjacent to Woolwich
Common, the historical home of the Royal Artillery.

The barracks, also known as the Woolwich station, now houses a number of the
King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery and independent companies of the Grenadier
and Coldstream Guards.

Woolwich Common remains a designated military training area. The shooting events
at the 2012 Summer Olympics and Paralympics were held at a temporary venue at
the Barracks.

Luke Huseyin, 32, who lives in a block of flats on John Wilson Street, Woolwich,
close to where the incident happened said he watched two men murder a man before
being shot.

He said: 'I was at home and heard a big bang. I looked out of the window and saw
a car had crashed.

'It was a blue Vauxhall. Then two black guys got out of the car dragging a white
guy across the road towards the wall. One of the guys had a knife that looked
about a foot long and a machete and the other bloke had a gun.

'They started slashing him up with the knife and hitting him in the stomach with
the machete. I don't think it took long before he was dead. There were people
passing by who were screaming and running away. I've never seen anything like
it.

'I'm still really shaken up. When he was dead, they dragged him out into the
road and left him there.

'It was strange, they didn't run off, they just stood there as if they were
waiting for the police.

'It must've taken about 20 minutes for the police to arrive, I think it must've
been because they were waiting for armed police.

'The police officers got out of the car and the two black men ran towards them
with the gun.

'The police shot them. They fell to the ground. Then a helicopter landed. Think
it must've been an air ambulance.

'The paramedics got out and I think they were working on the two men to try and
keep them alive.

'I don't know if they died, they were taken away in the helicopter. A blanket
was put over the white guy lying in the road. 'I just can't believe what I saw.'

Mother-of-four Julia Wilders, 51, said she was travelling past the scene and saw
two men hacking at a man with meat cleavers.

'Graham was driving and we drove past the car which was up against a lamp post.

'There were two black guys that looked like they were trying to resuscitate a
white guy on the floor. I thought there'd been an accident.

'But then I saw they were using meat cleavers to hack him up. We live just
behind where it happened and once we got back we walked back to have a look and
that's when I saw one of the black guys pull out a handgun.

'My husband screamed at me to get back. I was petrified. As I was running back I
saw the police pull up and the black guy was running towards the police car and
they shot him.

'I didn't see anything else, I just run back home.'

David Dixon is the headteacher of Mulgrave Primary School, which is located
about 50 metres from the scene of the incident. He saw a body in the road after
realising something was happening and immediately locked down the school.

He said: 'It was at the end of our road. As soon as we realised it was serious I
went to see what had happened and then told staff to lock down the school and
get the children inside. I spoke to police to ask what we should do.

'There seemed to be a body in the middle of the road. The traffic was backed up
and the police were on the scene.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 5:56 PM GMT

Two men 'hack soldier wearing Help for Heroes T-shirt to death with machetes in
suspected terror attack in London street before being shot by police'

BYLINE: ROB COOPER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1131 words



     ·    Police treating the incident as a terror attack as Theresa May calls a
          meeting of the government's emergency committee Cobra
     ·    Soldier 'murdered after a car crash' in Woolwich
     ·    Eyewitness says: 'They were hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him'
     ·    The two men were then reportedly shot dead by armed police
     ·    Police gave only said they were called to an 'incident' in Woolwich


Two people were today believed to have been shot by armed police after hacking a
soldier to death with a machete in a suspected terror attack.

Home Secretary Theresa May tonight called a meeting of the Government's
emergency Cabinet committee Cobra in response to the incident in Woolwich,
south-east London.

The soldier, wearing a Help for Heroes t-shirt, was attacked with knives and
meat cleavers following a car crash. It is claimed the two men who carried out
the attack shouted 'Allahu Akbar', which means God is great in Arabic.

It is thought that the two men waited around for 20 minutes until police arrived
and then tried to attack them - but were swiftly shot by armed officers.

Eyewitnesses said the 'crazed' men launched a ferocious attack and were 'hacking
at him, chopping him, cutting him.'

Scroll down for video

Prime Minister David Cameron wrote on Twitter that 'the killing in Woolwich is
truly shocking - I have asked the Home Secretary to chair a COBRA meeting.'

This afternoon the area's MP, Nick Raynsford, told BBC Radio 5 Live he believed
the victim of the attack was a serving soldier.

The man is believed to have been hacked to death after a car crash. The scene of
the attack is just 200 yards from Woolwich Barracks.

Mr Raynsford said: 'The circumstances causing the incident are not yet clear.
It's been suggested it was the product of a road traffic accident, but that's
pure speculation.

'We think a serving soldier was the victim. We don't know the circumstances
surrounding the incident.

'We do know a number of weapons have been seized. They include a gun, various
knives, and a machete, apparently.

'The police clearly had to take action in order to try and arrest these
individuals.'

The Independent Police Complaints Commission, which is called in whenever
firearms officers shoot people, said it is investigating.

The Ministry of Defence said it was urgently looking at the reports that the
incident involved a soldier but had no further comment.

Footage from a television news helicopter showed a large collection of weapons
lying in the street in Woolwich following the incident.

A spokesman for the London Ambulance Service said one man had died at the scene.

He said: 'Our staff treated two others. Both men were taken to hospital, one of
them is in a serious condition, the other is not.'

One witness, identified as James, said he and his partner saw two black men
attack the young victim with knives, including a meat cleaver.

'They were hacking at this poor guy, literally,' he told LBC. 'They were hacking
at him, chopping him, cutting him.'

Fighting back tears, James said the men treated their victim as a 'piece of
meat' after he was dead.

'These two guys were crazed,' he told the radio station. 'They were just
animals. They dragged him from the pavement and dumped his body in the middle of
the road and left his body there.'

The incident occurred near the Royal Artillery Barracks, adjacent to Woolwich
Common, the historical home of the Royal Artillery.

The barracks, also known as the Woolwich station, now houses a number of the
King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery and independent companies of the Grenadier
and Coldstream Guards.

Woolwich Common remains a designated military training area. The shooting events
at the 2012 Summer Olympics and Paralympics were held at a temporary venue at
the Barracks.

Luke Huseyin, 32, who lives in a block of flats on John Wilson Street, Woolwich,
close to where the incident happened said he watched two men murder a man before
being shot.

He said: 'I was at home and heard a big bang. I looked out of the window and saw
a car had crashed.

'It was a blue Vauxhall. Then two black guys got out of the car dragging a white
guy across the road towards the wall. One of the guys had a knife that looked
about a foot long and a machete and the other bloke had a gun.

'They started slashing him up with the knife and hitting him in the stomach with
the machete. I don't think it took long before he was dead. There were people
passing by who were screaming and running away. I've never seen anything like
it.

'I'm still really shaken up. When he was dead, they dragged him out into the
road and left him there.

'It was strange, they didn't run off, they just stood there as if they were
waiting for the police.

'It must've taken about 20 minutes for the police to arrive, I think it must've
been because they were waiting for armed police.

'The police officers got out of the car and the two black men ran towards them
with the gun.

'The police shot them. They fell to the ground. Then a helicopter landed. Think
it must've been an air ambulance.

'The paramedics got out and I think they were working on the two men to try and
keep them alive.

'I don't know if they died, they were taken away in the helicopter. A blanket
was put over the white guy lying in the road. 'I just can't believe what I saw.'

Mother-of-four Julia Wilders, 51, said she was travelling past the scene and saw
two men hacking at a man with meat cleavers.

'Graham was driving and we drove past the car which was up against a lamp post.

'There were two black guys that looked like they were trying to resuscitate a
white guy on the floor. I thought there'd been an accident.

'But then I saw they were using meat cleavers to hack him up. We live just
behind where it happened and once we got back we walked back to have a look and
that's when I saw one of the black guys pull out a handgun.

'My husband screamed at me to get back. I was petrified. As I was running back I
saw the police pull up and the black guy was running towards the police car and
they shot him.

'I didn't see anything else, I just run back home.'

David Dixon is the headteacher of Mulgrave Primary School, which is located
about 50 metres from the scene of the incident. He saw a body in the road after
realising something was happening and immediately locked down the school.

He said: 'It was at the end of our road. As soon as we realised it was serious I
went to see what had happened and then told staff to lock down the school and
get the children inside. I spoke to police to ask what we should do.

'There seemed to be a body in the middle of the road. The traffic was backed up
and the police were on the scene.

A spokesman for the Metropolitan Police said: 'Officers were called at 2.20pm to
John Wilson Street in Woolwich. It was to what we believe was an initial report
of an assault.'

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: LONDON

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 7:35 PM BST

'TERROR PAIR' IN 'BARBARIC' ATTACK

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 1023 words


One of the men behind a barbaric terror attack on the streets of London was
filmed wielding a bloodied meat cleaver and saying, ``We swear by almighty Allah
we will never stop fighting you.''

The black man, dressed in a grey hooded jacket and black woolly hat, apologises
to members of the public who witnessed the horrific scenes before making a
number of political statements.

In the footage, obtained by ITV News, he is heard to say: ``We must fight them
as they fight us. An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.

``I apologise that women have had to witness this today, but in our land our
women have to see the same. You people will never be safe. Remove your
government, they don't care about you.''

The attacker, who spoke clear English without a foreign accent, is then seen
walking towards his victim, lying in the street in Woolwich, south east London.
Another man is stood over the body.

Eyewitnesses said the victim, who a local MP said was believed to be a soldier,
was hacked to death by the two men, with some suggesting the attackers tried to
behead him.

Home Secretary Theresa May said: ``I have been briefed by the Metropolitan
Police Commissioner and the Director General of the Security Service.

``It has been confirmed to me that a man has been brutally murdered this
afternoon in south east London. Two other men were shot by armed police and they
are currently receiving treatment for their injuries.

``I have called a COBR (Cabinet Office Briefing Room) meeting where I will
receive further briefing. This is a sickening and barbaric attack.''

David Cameron described the attack as ``truly shocking''. Downing Street said
the Prime Minister, who was planning to stay in Paris overnight after meeting
the French president, would be returning on Wednesday night instead.

A spokesman for Ed Miliband said the Labour leader was cutting short a visit to
Germany to return to the UK as soon as possible.

A Buckingham Palace spokesman said: ``The Queen is of course concerned by the
report of an attack in Woolwich earlier today. Her Majesty is being kept
informed.''

The spokesman also confirmed the Queen will visit the King's Troop Royal Horse
Artillery at Woolwich barracks on May 31, which was planned before Wednesday's
attack.

At a press conference in Paris, the Prime Minister said Britain has faced terror
attacks such as the one in Woolwich before and added: ``We will never buckle in
the face of it.''

In expressing solidarity with the PM, French president Francois Hollande
referred to the murdered man as a ``British soldier''.

Other footage and pictures show a frenzied scene at the junction of John Wilson
Street and Wellington Street in Woolwich.

Some images show three men lying scattered in the street, surrounded by
discarded weapons and splashes of blood.

Eyewitnesses huddled behind a police cordon as around 30 to 40 officers secured
the scene, just around the corner from Mulgrave Primary School.

Woolwich and Greenwich MP Nick Raynsford said it was his understanding that the
deceased was a serving soldier.

He said he had spoken to both borough commander Richard Wood and Lieutenant
Colonel Bob Christopher at Woolwich Barracks.

Mr Raynsford said: ''It's been suggested it was the product of a road traffic
accident, but that's pure speculation.

''I'll be talking to everyone who is involved, we will be trying to do
everything possible to try and ensure calm in the area. People will be very,
very shocked.``

One witness, identified as James Heneghan, said he and his partner saw two black
men attack a young man aged around 20-years-old in a Help for Heroes T-shirt
with kitchen knives like he was ''a piece of meat''.

''They were hacking at this poor guy, literally,'' he told LBC radio. ''They
were hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him.''

London Ambulance Service confirmed a man was found dead at the scene, while two
other men were taken to hospital, one of them in a serious condition.

John Wilson Street was shut in both directions between Artillery Place and New
Ferry Approach.

Eyewitnesses took to Twitter to recount the horrific events. One user, using the
account @Boyadee, wrote of seeing two men decapitate another man in front of him
as he went to a nearby shop.

The Ministry of Defence said it was urgently looking at the reports that the
incident involved a soldier but had no further comment.

The incident occurred some 200 yards from the Royal Artillery Barracks, adjacent
to Woolwich Common, the historical home of the Royal Artillery.

The barracks, also known as the Woolwich station, now houses a number of the
King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery and independent companies of the Grenadier
and Coldstream Guards.

Woolwich Common remains a designated military training area.

Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford confirmed that the two attackers
were shot by armed officers.

He said in a statement: ''A number of weapons were reportedly being used in the
attack, and this included reports of a firearm.``

He added: ''Two men, who we believe from early reports to have been carrying
weapons, were shot by police. They were taken to separate London hospitals. They
are receiving treatment for their injuries.

''I can understand that this incident will cause community concerns and I would
like to reiterate that we are investigating what has taken place today.``

The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) has started an investigation
in to the circumstances surrounding the shooting of the two suspects. This is a
matter of routine when officers use their firearms.

A commissioner has been appointed to lead the investigation and twelve IPCC
investigators are currently at the scene and viewing CCTV footage.

Councillor Chris Roberts, leader of the Royal Borough of Greenwich, said: ``We
are deeply shocked by today's events by the Barracks in Woolwich and our
thoughts are with the family of the victim.

``Greenwich is a borough whose history and evolution is intertwined with
military, both army and navy and any attack by the Barracks feels like a strike
at the heart of our community.

``The Council will assist the police with their investigations and provide any
support requested of us.'' end

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2013 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 8:04 PM BST

'FIRST TERROR ATTACK SINCE 7/7'

BYLINE: Lauren Turner, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 710 words


Today's killing in broad daylight is thought to be the first terrorist attack on
British streets since the 2005 London bombings.

The July 7 atrocity saw 52 people killed by four suicide bombers on London's
transport network. Since then, there have been a number of other plots - the
first coming just two weeks after July 7. Another group of four bombers had
attempted to replicate the earlier attack but their plan failed. They were
caught and each jailed for life.

With reports of the victim being a soldier, the Woolwich incident mirrors a plot
which saw a Birmingham man jailed for life in 2008 for plotting to kidnap and
kill a British Muslim soldier. Parviz Khan admitted planning to lure the soldier
off the streets with the promise of drugs - then film his beheading.

He was described in court as having ``the most violent and extreme Islamist
views'', with the judge saying his aim was to deter any Muslim from joining the
British Army. Khan was ordered to serve at least 14 years in jail.

Terrorism also hit the headlines in June 2007 when, following an unsuccessful
car bomb attack that targeted Tiger Tiger in central London, a flaming Jeep was
driven at Glasgow Airport on June 30. One of the perpetrators, Kafeel Ahmed,
died in hospital after suffering severe burns in the attack, while Bilal Abdulla
was arrested and given a life sentence the following year.

The most recent planned attack aimed at killing large numbers of victims was in
May 2008. Muslim convert Nicky Reilly was planning to blow up dozens of diners
with a nail bomb in in Exeter, but he accidentally detonated the device in the
restaurant's toilet. He admitted the plan and also received a life sentence.

According to M15, there have been a total of 2,291 arrests under the Terrorism
Act between September 11, 2001, and 30 September, 2012 and 312 people have been
convicted of terrorism-related offences. As of the end of September last year,
there were 107 people serving sentences in UK prisons classified as terrorists.

Notable plots in recent years include:

* A 2006 plan to blow up aircraft being flown between the UK, America and Canada
using liquid explosives which led to 12 people being jailed.

* A plot to attack UK and US targets with a ``dirty bomb'' and gas-filled
limousines that saw al Qaida operative Dhiren Barot sentenced to 30 years in
jail in 2006, and seven other men linked to the plot jailed the following year.

* Plans to target shopping centres and nightclubs using fertiliser-based
explosives that led to five men being jailed for life in 2007.

* The attempted murder of Stephen Timms MP, who was stabbed by Roshonara
Choudry. The student, who was said to have been inspired by extremist sermons
she watched on the internet, was convicted of attempted murder in 2010.

* A plan to attack the London Stock Exchange, which saw nine members of a
terrorist network later receive sentences of between five and 17 years each in
February 2012.

Three high-profile sentencing hearings took place last month alone.

On April 18, four men from Luton - Zahid Iqbal, Mohammed Sharfaz Ahmed, Umar
Arshad and Syed Farhan Hussain - were given long jail terms for their roles in
plotting an al Qaida-inspired attack in the UK. They had intended to carry out
terrorist attacks in Luton using improvised explosive devices and all admitted
engaging in conduct in preparation for acts of terrorism between January 2011
and April 2012.

British Islamic extremists Richard Dart, Imran Mahmood and Jahangir Alom were
jailed for more than 20 years in total on April 25 after admitting engaging in
conduct in preparation for acts of terrorism. They had discussed targets
including Wootton Bassett, the Old Bailey was told.

The following day, 11 men from Birmingham were sentenced for their roles in a
major terrorist plot. They were said to have been planning suicide bomb blasts
that would have rivalled both the July 7 and September 11 attacks.

Six men from the West Midlands also appeared in court last month to plead guilty
to terrorist charges connected to an attempt to attack an English Defence League
rally in June 2012.

Omar Mohammed Khan, Mohammed Hasseen, Anzal Hussain, Mohammed Saud, Zohaib Ahmed
and Jewel Uddin admitted preparing an act of terrorism. All six will be
sentenced on June 6.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2013 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    RTE News

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 6:49 AM GMT

London attack likely terror related - Cameron

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 261 words



HIGHLIGHT: Terror suspected in London attack


British Prime Minister David Cameron has said there are "strong indications"
that a violent killing in southeast London is terror related.

A man was killed and two others were taken to hospital with gunshot wounds in
Woolwich following the incident understood to involve a serving British soldier.

Speaking in Paris, Mr Cameron said Britain has faced terror attacks before and
added: "We will never buckle in the face of it".

"It is the most appalling crime. We are obviously seeking, and the police are
urgently seeking the full facts about this case, but there are strong
indications that it is a terrorist incident" he said.

Scotland Yard's top officer confirmed two men had been arrested following the
incident.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said officers from the
counter-terrorist unit were leading the investigation into the "shocking and
horrific" Woolwich murder.

He said: "It is hard to comprehend the shocking and horrific scenes we have seen
this afternoon on a busy street as Londoners went about their day as normal.

"We have launched a murder investigation, being led by the Counter Terrorism
Command. Two men have been arrested in connection with that murder."

The incident occurred around 200m from the Royal Artillery Barracks.

The barracks houses a number of the King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery and
independent companies of the Grenadier and Coldstream Guards.

One of the men suspected of involvement in the attack was filmed wielding a
bloodied meat cleaver and saying: "We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop
fighting you."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


     Copyright 2013 RTE Commercial Enterprises Ltd / Radio Telefís Éireann
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             May 22, 2013 Wednesday

Woolwich killing being treated as terror attack'

BYLINE: Angus Howarth

LENGTH: 1349  words


A major police operation is ongoing tonight after two suspected terrorists
murdered a man in the street in broad daylight.

o Two men attacked a man thought to be a serving soldier, with machete-style
knives, say eyewitnesses

o Incident treated as terror attack; Home Secretary chairing COBRA meeting

o Senior Whitehall sources: Woolwich attackers thought to have tried to film
attack whilst shouting Allahu Akbar'

Eyewitnesses said the victim was hacked to death, with some suggesting his
attackers tried to behead him, before charging at police when they arrived on
the scene in Woolwich, south east London.

A local MP said the victim was believed to be a soldier.

Prime Minister David Cameron called a meeting of the Government's Cobra crisis
committee, describing the incident as "truly shocking".

Cobra meetings are crisis response committees set up to coordinate the actions
of different agencies, including the security services, police and local
authorities.

One Whitehall source told the Press Association the attackers were heard to
shout Allah Akbar'.

Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford confirmed tonight that the two
attackers were shot by armed officers.

He said in a statement: "At approximately 1420 we were called to reports of an
assault in John Wilson Street, Woolwich, where one man was being assaulted by
two other men.

"A number of weapons were reportedly being used in the attack, and this included
reports of a firearm.

"Officers including local Greenwich officers arrived at the scene and shortly
after firearms officers arrived on the scene.

"On their arrival at the scene they found a man, who was later pronounced dead.
At this early stage I am unable to provide any further information about the man
who has died.

"Two men, who we believe from early reports to have been carrying weapons, were
shot by police. They were taken to separate London hospitals. They are receiving
treatment for their injuries.

"I can understand that this incident will cause community concerns and I would
like to reiterate that we are investigating what has taken place today.

"The MPS will investigate the circumstances that led to a man losing his life
and the IPCC, as is routine, will investigate the circumstances in which police
discharged their weapons.

"There will continue to be an increased police presence in this area, and the
surrounding areas this evening. That presence will continue as long as is
needed.

"I am asking people to remain calm, and avoid unnecessary speculation. I will
update you again as soon as I am in a position to do so."

Several witnesses described seeing a "beheading" while another described seeing
a man wearing a Help for Heroes T-shirt being attacked with a machete-style
knife.

Woolwich and Greenwich MP Nick Raynsford said it was his understanding that one
person, a serving soldier, was dead and his two alleged killers were taken to
hospital after armed police shot them.

London Ambulance Service confirmed a man was found dead at the scene, while two
other men were taken to hospital, one of them in a serious condition.

One witness, identified as James, said he and his partner saw two black men
attack a young man aged around 20 in a Help for Heroes T-shirt with kitchen
knives like he was "a piece of meat".

"They were hacking at this poor guy, literally," he told LBC radio.

"They were hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him."

Fighting back tears, he added: "These two guys were crazed.

"They were just animals. They dragged him from the pavement and dumped his body
in the middle of the road and left his body there."

He said that after the "horrendous" attack, the two men, in their 20s, just
stood around, waving knives and a gun, even asking people nearby to take
pictures of them "as if they wanted to be on TV or something".

"They were oblivious to anything, they were more worried about having their
photo taken, running up and down the road," he said.

"They had no intention of running off or leaving or anything.

"In my opinion, they were waiting for the police to arrive to be shot by the
police. That's the only thing I can think.

"It's horrendous what they were doing to that guy."

Some "brave" women tried to shield the man on the ground from them, he added.

He also said that it was 20 minutes before armed police arrived at the scene.

"When the armed police came flying around the corner, the man with the beanie
hat, the tall guy, he charged at the police vehicle," he said.

"A shot was fired by the other guy with the gun.

"Six shots were fired, both men went down and we now know they are dead as
well."

London Air Ambulance confirmed that one patient was airlifted from the scene,
while another was taken away by road ambulance.

Mr Raynsford said he had spoken to both borough commander Richard Wood and
Lieutenant Colonel Bob Christopher at Woolwich Barracks.

He said: "The incident occurred early afternoon. One individual is dead, two
others are seriously injured and in hospital.

"The circumstances causing the incident are not yet clear. It's been suggested
it was the product of a road traffic accident, but that's pure speculation.

"I'll be talking to everyone who is involved, we will be trying to do everything
possible to try and ensure calm in the area. People will be very, very shocked.

"We think a serving soldier was the victim. We don't know the circumstances
surrounding the incident.

"We do know a number of weapons have been seized. They include a gun, various
knives, and a machete, apparently.

"The police clearly had to take action in order to try and arrest these
individuals."

Cheryl Spruce, who lives near the incident, told Sky News that a nearby school
was put into "lockdown".

She said: "The police were telling us to take an alternative route to get to
school.

"There were police everywhere. There were 30 to 40 police officers.

"Police officers in each road were stopping people from walking anywhere. It's
mayhem out there at the moment."

John Wilson Street was shut in both directions between Artillery Place and New
Ferry Approach.

Pictures showing three men lying on the ground appeared on Twitter shortly after
the incident.

The images also appeared to show knives and bloodstains at the junction of John
Wilson Street and Wellington Street.

Witnesses described the incident on Twitter as "horrific".

One user, using the account @Boyadee, wrote of seeing two men decapitate another
man in front of him as he went to a nearby shop.

He suggested that the men looked like they were on drugs, waiting for the police
to arrive and then going towards them with "just two machete and an old rusty
lookin revolver".

"I couldn't believe my eyes. That was some movie sh*t," he wrote.

The Ministry of Defence said it was urgently looking at the reports that the
incident involved a soldier but had no further comment.

The incident occurred some 200 yards from the Royal Artillery Barracks, adjacent
to Woolwich Common, the historical home of the Royal Artillery.

The barracks, also known as the Woolwich station, now houses a number of the
King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery and independent companies of the Grenadier
and Coldstream Guards.

Woolwich Common remains a designated military training area.

The shooting events at the 2012 Summer Olympics and Paralympics were held at a
temporary venue at the Barracks.

Julia Wilders, 51, who lives near the scene, said she had seen one of the
attackers run towards police clutching two meat cleavers.

She said: "He ran towards police before they could even get out of the car, and
it looked like the other one was going to lift the gun up."

She had been driving home with her husband and they saw the man who was attacked
lying on the ground.

"We were driving back and my husband said to me don't look, they're
resuscitating someone'. But apparently they were stabbing him.

"We went back down there and saw a black man with a gun. My husband phoned the
police and I went to the school to tell them.

"About 20 minutes later I went back there and another man had the gun and the
taller man had two meat cleavers."

The taller man was wearing a black woolly hat and the shorter one a green top,
she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             May 22, 2013 Wednesday

Woolwich incident being treated as terror attack'

BYLINE: Angus Howarth

LENGTH: 628  words


PRIME Minister David Cameron has asked Home Secretary Theresa May to chair a
COBRA meeting, after it was confirmed that an incident in Woolwich in which a
man was killed and two others were taken to hospital with gunshot wounds was
upgraded to a terrorist incident'.

Several witnesses described seeing a "beheading" while another described seeing
a man wearing a Help for Heroes T-shirt being attacked with a machete-style
knife and dumped in a south east London street.

Woolwich and Greenwich MP Nick Raynsford said it was his understanding that one
person, a serving soldier, was dead and his two alleged killers were taken to
hospital.

London Ambulance Service confirmed a man was found dead at the scene, while two
other men were taken to hospital, one of them in a serious condition.

One witness, identified as James, said he and his partner saw two black men
attack a young man aged around 20 in a Help for Heroes T-shirt with kitchen
knives like he was "a piece of meat".

"They were hacking at this poor guy, literally," he told LBC radio.

"They were hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him."

Fighting back tears, he added: "These two guys were crazed.

"They were just animals. They dragged him from the pavement and dumped his body
in the middle of the road and left his body there."

He said that after the "horrendous" attack, the two men, in their 20s, just
stood around, waving knives and a gun, even asking people nearby to take
pictures of them "as if they wanted to be on TV or something".

"They were oblivious to anything, they were more worried about having their
photo taken, running up and down the road," he said.

"They had no intention of running off or leaving or anything.

"In my opinion, they were waiting for the police to arrive to be shot by the
police. That's the only thing I can think.

"It's horrendous what they were doing to that guy."

Some "brave" women tried to shield the man on the ground from them, he added.

He also said that it was 20 minutes before armed police arrived at the scene.

"When the armed police came flying around the corner, the man with the beanie
hat, the tall guy, he charged at the police vehicle," he said.

"A shot was fired by the other guy with the gun.

"Six shots were fired, both men went down and we now know they are dead as
well."

London Air Ambulance confirmed that one patient was airlifted from the scene,
while another was taken away by road ambulance.

Mr Raynsford said he had spoken to both borough commander Richard Wood and
Lieutenant Colonel Bob Christopher at Woolwich Barracks.

He said: "The incident occurred early afternoon. One individual is dead, two
others are seriously injured and in hospital.

"The circumstances causing the incident are not yet clear. It's been suggested
it was the product of a road traffic accident, but that's pure speculation.

"I'll be talking to everyone who is involved, we will be trying to do everything
possible to try and ensure calm in the area. People will be very, very shocked.

"We think a serving soldier was the victim. We don't know the circumstances
surrounding the incident.

"We do know a number of weapons have been seized. They include a gun, various
knives, and a machete, apparently.

"The police clearly had to take action in order to try and arrest these
individuals."

Cheryl Spruce, who lives near the incident, told Sky News that a nearby school
was put into "lockdown".

She said: "The police were telling us to take an alternative route to get to
school.

"There were police everywhere. There were 30 to 40 police officers.

"Police officers in each road were stopping people from walking anywhere. It's
mayhem out there at the moment."

Prime Minister David Cameron said: "The killing in Woolwich is truly shocking -
I have asked the Home Secretary to chair a COBRA meeting"

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             May 22, 2013 Wednesday

Woolwich: Man hacked to death in terror attack

BYLINE: Natalie Walker

LENGTH: 1190  words


A MAN believed to be a British soldier has died after he was hacked to death in
the street by two suspected Muslim fanatics armed with knives, machetes, a meat
cleaver and a handgun.

o Two men attacked a man thought to be a serving soldier, with machete-style
knives, say eyewitnesses

o Incident treated as terror attack; security at Woolwich and other London
barracks stepped up following Cobra meeting

One of the attackers behind the barbaric killing, near the Royal Artillery
Barracks in Woolwich, London, was filmed wielding a blade,

saying: "We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you." Prime
Minister David Cameron said there were "strong indications that it is a
terrorist incident".

If this is confirmed, it would be the first successful terrorist attack on
British soil since the London bombings of 7 July 2005. Onlookers said the men
waited at the scene after the killing, filming themselves and shouting political
and religious statements.

When police arrived one of the men reportedly charged at officers while the
other opened fire, before they were both shot and injured. The two men were
taken to nearby hospitals, where one was said to be in a serious condition.

The horrific scenes unfolded on Wednesday afternoon near the barracks and close
to a primary school.

Security was stepped up at military barracks across London, as eyewitnesses and
others close to the area said the victim, pronounced dead immediately, was a
serving British soldier.

Footage

In a chilling development, footage emerged of one of the suspected killers,
apparently explaining his terrifying actions.

In the clip, obtained by ITV News, he is heard to say: "We must fight them as
they fight us. An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.

"I apologise that women have had to witness this today, but in our land our
women have to see the same. You people will never be safe. Remove your
government, they don't care about you."

The man adds: "You think David Cameron is going to get caught in the street when
we start bussin' our guns? You think politicians are going to die?

"No it's going to be the average guy, like you, and your children.

"So get rid of them. Tell them to bring our troops back so you can all live in
peace."

The attacker, who spoke clear English without a foreign accent, is then seen
walking towards the victim, who is lying in the street. Another man is standing
by a car that has collided with a road sign.

Terrorist incident'

At a press conference in Paris, Mr Cameron said: "It is the most appalling
crime. We are obviously seeking, and the police are urgently seeking the full
facts about this case, but there are strong indications that it is a terrorist
incident.

"People across Britain, people in every community, I believe, will utterly
condemn this attack. We have had these sorts of attacks before in our country
and we never buckle in the face of them."

He was due back in Britain late on Wednesday after cutting short his foreign
trip.

The Muslim Council of Britain condemned the attack, saying: "This is a truly
barbaric act that has no basis in Islam and we condemn this unreservedly."

Some images show three men lying scattered in the street, surrounded by
discarded weapons and splashes of blood.

Eyewitnesses huddled behind a police cordon as about 30 to 40 officers secured
the scene, just around the corner from Mulgrave Primary School.

Woolwich and Greenwich MP Nick Raynsford said it was his understanding that the
dead man was a serving soldier.

One witness, identified as James Heneghan, said he and his partner saw two black
men attack a young man aged around 20-years-old in a Help for Heroes T-shirt
with kitchen knives.

Emergency Cobra meeting

The government held a Cobra emergency response meeting - attended by the Home
Secretary, Defence Secretary Philip Hammond, Mayor of London Boris Johnson, Met
Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, Met Assistant Commissioner Cressida Dick
and intelligence agencies - to discuss the attack.

Other leading figures came forward to express their horror and offer sympathies
to the victim's families.

A Buckingham Palace spokesman said: "The Queen is of course concerned by the
report of an attack in Woolwich earlier today. Her Majesty is being kept
informed."

Ed Miliband MP, Leader of the Labour Party, said: "This is a truly appalling
murder which will shock the entire country."

The Ministry of Defence said it was urgently looking at the reports that the
incident involved a soldier but had no further comment.

Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford confirmed on Wednesday night that
the two attackers were shot by armed officers.

He said: "A number of weapons were reportedly being used in the attack, and this
included reports of a firearm."

He added: "Two men, who we believe from early reports to have been carrying
weapons, were shot by police."

Eyewitness accounts

Dozens of witnesses recounted seeing the two men attack their victim while he
lay defenceless on the busy road in broad daylight.

James, an eyewitness who spoke to a local radio station, told how he saw two men
cowering over a man on the ground next to a car crashed into a signpost.

He said: "We thought they were trying to help him. We next saw clearly two
knives, and a meat cleaver, they weren't little small knives, they were big
kitchen knives, like you'd find in a butchers.

"I jumped out the car and shouted. One of the black guys went to the crashed
car, got into the front, pulled out a bag and pointed a gun at us.

"He shouted get in the car, get in the car.'"

Describing the attackers as "acting like crazed animals" he said he rang the
police before seeing them men drag their victim, who he believed was dead, up
the street.

Witnesses described how the men stayed at the scene for the 15 minutes it took
for armed police to arrive. They told how they filmed themselves next to the
body and walking about the area covered with blood and holding an assortment of
weapons including a gun.

Onlookers described how they saw a middle-aged woman attempt to lie down near
the victim and shield him from the attackers who she tried to speak to.

Some witnesses told how the attackers stayed at the scene until police came and
were surprised the two men did not seem to want to injure anyone else.

They told how they pair got angry again when police turned up and described how
the men charged at some of the 30 or so officers - who were armed -  when they
arrived at the murder scene.

One man said: "They were waiting for the police to arrive because as soon as the
police came flying around the corner, the man with the beanie hat, the tall guy,
he charged at the police response vehicle.

"A shot was fired by the other guy with the gun. Next thing you know... there
were six shots fired, both men went down."

Defence and security expert Raffaello Pantucci, Senior Research Fellow at Royal
United Services Institute, said security forces had become increasingly
concerned about smaller scale terror attacks -those involving just one or two
people.

He said: "The end result is the same. Whether they kill one or 50 people, they
get wall to wall coverage and get their message out there and heard by
everyone."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                             May 22, 2013 Wednesday

'Soldier' killed in Woolwich 'terrorist' attack

SECTION: LATEST NEWS (SWA NEWS)

LENGTH: 695 words


A MAN has been killed and two others were taken to hospital with gunshot wounds
following a "serious incident" understood to involve a serving soldier.

Several witnesses described seeing a "beheading" while another described seeing
a man wearing a Help for Heroes T-shirt being attacked with a machete-style
knife and dumped in a south-east London street.

Woolwich and Greenwich MP Nick Raynsford said it was his understanding that one
person, a serving soldier, was dead and his two alleged killers were taken to
hospital.

London Ambulance Service confirmed a man was found dead at the scene, while two
other men were taken to hospital, one of them in a serious condition. London Air
Ambulance confirmed that one patient was airlifted from the scene, while another
was taken away by road ambulance.

One witness, identified as James, said he and his partner saw two black men
attack a young man aged around 20 in a Help for Heroes T-shirt with kitchen
knives like he was "a piece of meat". "They were hacking at this poor guy,
literally," he told LBC radio. "They were hacking at him, chopping him, cutting
him."

Fighting back tears, he added: "These two guys were crazed. They were just
animals. They dragged him from the pavement and dumped his body in the middle of
the road and left his body there."

He said after the "horrendous" attack, the two men, in their 20s, just stood
around, waving knives and a gun, even asking people nearby to take pictures of
them "as if they wanted to be on TV or something".

"They were oblivious to anything, they were more worried about having their
photo taken, running up and down the road," he said.

"They had no intention of running off or leaving or anything. In my opinion,
they were waiting for the police to arrive to be shot by the police. That's the
only thing I can think. It's horrendous what they were doing to that guy." Some
"brave" women tried to shield the man on the ground from them, he added.

He also said it was 20 minutes before armed police arrived at the scene. "When
the armed police came flying around the corner, the man with the beanie hat, the
tall guy, he charged at the police vehicle," he said. "A shot was fired by the
other guy with the gun. Six shots were fired, both men went down and we now know
they are dead as well."

Mr Raynsford said he had spoken to both borough commander Richard Wood and
Lieutenant Colonel Bob Christopher at Woolwich Barracks. He said: "The incident
occurred early afternoon. One individual is dead, two others are seriously
injured and in hospital.

"The circumstances causing the incident are not yet clear. It's been suggested
it was the product of a road traffic accident, but that's pure speculation. I'll
be talking to everyone who is involved, we will be trying to do everything
possible to try and ensure calm in the area. People will be very, very shocked.
We think a serving soldier was the victim.

"We don't know the circumstances surrounding the incident. We do know a number
of weapons have been seized. They include a gun, various knives, and a machete,
apparently. The police clearly had to take action in order to try and arrest
these individuals."

Cheryl Spruce, who lives near the incident, told Sky News that a nearby school
was put into "lockdown". She said: "The police were telling us to take an
alternative route to get to school. There were police everywhere. There were 30
to 40 police officers. Police officers in each road were stopping people from
walking anywhere. It's mayhem out there at the moment."

The Ministry of Defence said it was urgently looking at the reports that the
incident involved a soldier but had no further comment. The incident occurred
some 200 yards from the Royal Artillery Barracks, adjacent to Woolwich Common,
the historical home of the Royal Artillery. The barracks, also known as the
Woolwich station, now houses a number of the King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery
and independent companies of the Grenadier and Coldstream Guards. Woolwich
Common remains a designated military training area.

Follow a live blog from our sister-paper News Shopper in South London

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      May 22, 2013 Wednesday 10:53 PM GMT

The far-Right EDL is using Twitter and Facebook to exploit the Woolwich
terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Jake Wallis Simons

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 315 words


In the immediate aftermath of the tragic attack in Woolwich, one would assume
that the matter would be trending massively on Twitter. Instead, however, the
hashtag #woolwich has had an erratic presence in the top 10 most popular terms.
For much of the evening, it was absent altogether.

Instead, for a while the phrase "Allahu Akhbar" was trending, due to a frenzied
discussion about whether the suspects shouted the phrase or not. More
significantly, firmly in the top five has been "EDL", which stands for the
English Defence League, who, led by Tommy Robinson, have been fighting the
police in Woolwich.

There could be no clearer demonstration of the nature of terrorist attacks.
Horrendous as it was, the attack was on a relatively small scale, mercifully
claiming only one victim. Yet the societal impact it has created has been huge,
and it is only just beginning. Political and community leaders across the board
are appealing for calm. Yet there are many groups who care nothing for this;
they exist in a state of perpetual febrility, gunpowder waiting for a spark.

Since the attack, the English Defence League's Twitter account has gone into
overdrive. Whereas it normally tweets only a few times a day, it has been
tweeting every few minutes. The account has accumulated large amounts of new
followers, and the EDL Facebook page has received thousands of new "likes".

Interestingly, however, the polarisation of opinion does not seem to have gone
both ways. Muslims have tended to take to Twitter to condemn the attacks; a
selection has been compiled by the Spectator.

Of course, this is only Twitter. It would be a mistake to see it as
representative of public opinion in Britain and around the world. Nevertheless,
it is fair to say that tonight, the micro-blogging site is speaking volumes
about the opportunistic nature of the far Right, and the type of emotions on
which it thrives.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 9:49 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: terror returns to Britain's streets;
When bystanders in John Wilson Street heard a car smashing into a street sign,
they turned and saw what they thought were two black men trying to help a white
man they had run over.

BYLINE: By Gordon Rayner Chief Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1557 words


Instinctively, some started to head towards the chaotic scene in Woolwich, south
east London, to offer help, or stopped their cars so they could call for an
ambulance.

But what they were witnessing was not a suburban road accident, but the most
brutal murder imaginable, as two Al-Qaeda inspired Islamic terrorists hacked at
their victim "like a piece of meat" in an "animal" frenzy on the suburban
pavement.

The soldier they had targeted was so badly butchered that it looked as if "they
were trying to remove organs", according to one man who saw the first terrorist
murder on British soil in eight years.

When they finally finished beheading and mutilating the soldier's body, they
appeared to say a prayer "as if it was a sacrifice", one witness said.

Police took so long to arrive at the scene that the killers casually paced up
and down the street, their hands dripping with blood, making a series of
pronouncements that were filmed by onlookers.

"We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you," one of them said
in a London accent.

It was 2.20 in the afternoon when Islamic terrorism returned to Britain's
streets and claimed its first victim since the 7/7 suicide bombings of 2005.

Children at the Mulgrave Primary School were looking forward to home time and
adults were waiting at bus stops and going about their daily routines.

Among them was a young soldier, aged around 20, who had been on duty that day in
central London and was on his way back to the Royal Artillery Barracks, dressed
in a Help for Heroes T-shirt.

Whether his charity T-shirt was what identified him to two Muslim men driving up
the road in a blue Vauxhall Tigra is not yet known, but the car suddenly mounted
the pavement and ran him over.

An eyewitness called James saw two black men get out of the car and said: "We
thought they were trying to help him, we thought they were involved in this
crash.

"Then we saw two knives - a meat cleaver - they weren't small knives, they were
like big kitchen knives used in a butchers. They were hacking at this poor guy.
We saw the whole incident.

"We thought they were trying to remove organs. They were just hacking at him.
Digging and digging and digging and digging. Horrendous.

"I jumped out the car and shouted. One of the black guys went into the crashed
car, got into the front, pulled out a bag. He pointed a gun at us.

"He shouted 'get in the car, get in the car'. I got on the phone to the police,
called 999.

"I said you need armed response. You need police. These two guys are chopping
this guy to pieces. Literally hacking at something. Like it's a bit of meat.
These two guys were crazed. They were just animals."

One witness said the killers were "praying like it was a sacrifice". Another
told police the men had shouted "Allahu akbar" - God is Great - as they carried
out the attack.

A 42-year-old council worker who saw what happened said: "They were trying to
decapitate him for 15 minutes. There was a six-year-old boy there who saw it
all, he was crying and shaking. He said he could see the body but not the head."

Once they had stopped slashing at the body, they dragged the dead soldier into
the middle of the road, then returned to the pavement, their hands red with
blood, waving their knives and a pistol.

Olu Peluola, 53, was walking up the road when she saw one of the killers
standing over the body, holding a long knife.

"I knew he must be dead," he said. "People were running away and crying, saying
'he's dead, he's dead'.

"I was panicked and called the police but it took them so long to come. I think
it was about 25 minutes. Why didn't they come faster?

"I was scared at first but then just angry at how long it took.

Incredibly, some bystanders courageously went to the body to see if there was
anything they could do.

James said: "There were brave women with the body on the floor. They were trying
to shield him and covering him. The attackers with the knives they were standing
over these women.

"There was people filming it on their phones. The guy with the gun, the tall guy
with the beanie, he was going over to the bus asking people 'take photos of me'.
As if he wants to be on TV. He was proud of what he'd done to this poor guy."

Other witnesses, perhaps too terrified to run away, obeyed orders from the
killers to film them as they were threatened with a pistol.

But local police officers refused to approach the killers, instead waiting 20
minutes for an armed response team to arrive.

In the meantime, the terrorists calmly paced the street, waiting for police to
confront them and encouraging bystanders to photograph and film them.

It was at this point that the taller of the killers, dressed all in black and
with a knife and a meat cleaver carried casually in his hand, was filmed saying:
"We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you.

"We must fight them as they fight us. An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.

"I apologise that women had to witness this today but in our lands our women
have to see the same. You people will never be safe. Remove your government,
they don't care about you.

"Do you think David Cameron is going to get caught in the street when we start
busting our guns? Do you think your politicians are going to die?

"No, it's going to be the average guy like you, and your children. So get rid of
them. Tell them to bring our troops back so we - so you can all live in peace."

Meanwhile, in the absence of any police response, some members of the public
seemed oblivious to what had just happened. As the killer made his on-camera
pronouncement, a woman walked unconcernedly past him wheeling a shopping
trolley.

Photographs taken by witnesses showed the second killer, wearing a beige coat,
standing talking to a woman as if casually passing the day, a long knife in his
hand the only sign of the violence that had just happened.

At one point one of the men fired shots into the air.

Joe Tallant, 20, a van loader who lives near the scene, said: "I was in a shop
and I heard gun shots so I came out to see what was happening.

"And I saw a guy with no head lying on the ground. He had been decapitated.

"There were two black guys walking around his body saying 'This is what God
would've wanted'.

"My friend and her mum were walking up the hill and the mum came straight to the
victim.

"She asked the black guys 'can I help him?' And one of them said he was already
dead but she could go.

"Then one of them said 'No man is coming near this body, only women'.

"She was so brave, she didn't care what happened to her - she knelt down by his
side and comforted him.

"She held his hand and put her other hand on his chest. I think she might have
been praying.

"My friend (The woman's daughter) was crying her eyes out.

"The attackers kept on walking around. They had already fired warning shots into
the air - that was the shots I heard.

"They were going up to people with cameras just so they could be seen and
filmed. They wanted people to know who they were."

Eyewitness James said: "They had the opportunity to hurt other people if they
wanted to," said James. "They were waiting for something. They had opportunities
to run off but it turned out they were waiting for the armed police to arrive.

"As soon as the police come flying round the corner the man with the beanie hat,
the tall guy, he charged at the police response vehicle.

"Next thing you know there was six shots fired. Both men went down."

Julia Wilders, 51, who lives nearby, said: "The man with two machetes ran at the
police when they arrived and the police shot him. I saw him fall. The other one
looked like he was going to go for his gun, so they shot him too."

Another witness said a female firearms officer shot one of the men "like
Robocop" when he ran towards her with a machete.

James added: "There were so many people there 10 minutes after we were arrived.
Shouting at them. They were taking no notice. They were oblivious. They were
more worried about getting photos taken. In my opinion they were waiting for
police to arrive to be shot by police. It's like a horror movie. The blood
trickling down the road, down the pavement, everywhere."

Meanwhile teachers at the primary school were preparing to let the children go
home for the day.

Julia Wilders' husband Graham, 50, said: "My nine year old son Steven goes to
the school and all I could think about was that it was home time and he would be
walking down here soon.

"I saw a load of kids come out of school gates and I just yelled at them to get
back.

"I ran up to the school shouting 'there's a gunman' and to get everybody inside.

"The headmaster came out and they closed the school gates and kept everyone in.
That was when I heard four shots."

Luke Huseyin, 32, who lives in a block of flats overlooking the scene, said that
after the shots were fired, an air ambulance that had been hovering landed at
the scene.

"The paramedics got out and I think they were working on the two men to try and
keep them alive," he said. "A blanket was put over the white guy lying in the
road. I just can't believe what I saw."

Moments later, the road was cordoned off and John Wilson Street became a crime
scene, with the bloodied knives taped to the road under plastic sheets, the
victim's jacket lying on the tarmac and a huge bloodstain on the pavement next
to the crashed car which had started Britain's worst act of terrorism for eight
years.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 8:52 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: David Cameron vows UK will 'never buckle in face of terror';
Speaking in Paris alongside Francois Hollande, the French president, David
Cameron says Britain has faced terror attacks such as the one in Woolwich before
and adds: "We will never buckle in the face of it."

LENGTH: 396 words


At a press conference in Paris, the Prime Minister said Britain has faced terror
attacks such as the one in Woolwich before and added: "We will never buckle in
the face of it."

In expressing solidarity with the PM, French president Francois Hollande
referred to the murdered man as a "British soldier".

Aerial footage and pictures show a frenzied scene                      at the
junction of John Wilson Street and Wellington Street in Woolwich.

Some images show three men lying scattered in the street, surrounded by
discarded weapons and splashes of blood.

Eyewitnesses huddled behind a police cordon as around 30 to 40 officers secured
the scene, just around the corner from Mulgrave Primary School.

Woolwich and Greenwich MP Nick Raynsford                      said it was his
understanding that the deceased was a serving soldier.

Mr Raynsford said: "I'll be talking to everyone who is involved, we will be
trying to do everything possible to try and ensure calm in the area. People will
be very, very shocked."

London Ambulance Service confirmed a man was found dead at the scene, while two
other men were taken to hospital, one of them in a serious condition.

The Ministry of Defence said it was urgently looking at the reports that the
incident involved a soldier but had no further comment.

The incident occurred some 200 yards from the Royal Artillery Barracks, adjacent
to Woolwich Common, the historical home of the Royal Artillery.

The barracks, also known as the Woolwich station, now houses a number of the
King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery and independent companies of the Grenadier
and Coldstream Guards.

Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford confirmed tonight that the two
attackers were shot by armed officers.

He said in a statement: "A number of weapons were reportedly being used in the
attack, and this included reports of a firearm."

He added: "Two men, who we believe from early reports to have been carrying
weapons, were shot by police. They were taken to separate London hospitals. They
are receiving treatment for their injuries.

"I can understand that this incident will cause community concerns and I would
like to reiterate that we are investigating what has taken place today."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 8:20 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: David Cameron condemns 'sickening' murder;
David Cameron has said there are "strong indications" that the "sickening"
murder of a man reported to be a soldier was a terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Tim Ross and Peter Dominiczak

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 784 words


The Prime Minister said he would cut short a visit to Paris for talks with the
French President, Francois Hollande, to return to London to take charge of the
government's response to the murder in Woolwich.

He condemned the "appalling" incident and declared that the British people will
"never buckle" in the face of terror.

In a press conference alongside President Hollande, Mr Cameron urged the public
to go about their normal lives to show that "terrorists can never win".

"There are strong indications that it is a terrorist incident," he said. "The
police and the security services in the UK will get all of the support they need
to deal with this, or indeed with any other incidents."

"We have suffered these attacks before. We have always beaten them back.

"We have done that through a combination of vigilance, of security, of security
information, good policing.

"But above all, the way we have beaten them back is showing an absolutely
indomitable British spirit that we will not be cowed, we will never buckle under
these attacks.

"The terrorists will never win because they can never beat the values we hold
dear, the belief in freedom, in democracy, in free speech, in our British
values, western values. They are never going to defeat those.

"That is how we will stand up to these people, whoever they are, however many
there are of them, and that is how we will win."

The Prime Minister has ordered a meeting of the Cabinet's emergency Cobra
committee, which was being chaired in his absence by the Home Secretary. Mr
Cameron will return to London to chair another Cobra meeting on Thursday
morning.

The attack, which was believed to have resulted in the killing of a serving
soldier, was greeted with horror by politicians from all sides.

The Prime Minister was in talks with European leaders in Brussels when news of
the killing emerged. He was briefed by officials while travelling to his
scheduled meeting President Hollande.

Giving his first reaction to the attack, Mr Cameron said on his official Twitter
account: "The killing in Woolwich is truly shocking - I have asked the Home
Secretary to chair a COBRA meeting."

Twitter: UK Prime Minister - PM: "The killing in #Woolwich is truly shocking - I
have asked the Home Secretary to chair a COBRA meeting"

Cobra stands for Cabinet Office Briefing Room A, the underground room in Downing
Street where the committee usually meets. Membership of the committee varies
depending on the nature of the state emergency.

The committee was in near constant session during the July 7 terror attacks on
London in 2005.

In the Prime Minister's absence, Theresa May, the Home secretary, will chair the
first meeting in response to the attack because she holds Cabinet responsibility
for tackling terrorist incidents on British soil. Mrs May called the attack
"sickening and barbaric".

Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, said he was "shocked" by the "appalling events".
He said the "whole country will be horrified by what has happened".

Mr Miliband decided to cut short a trip to Germany to return to London.

Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, who holds responsibility for policing in the
capital, was due to attend the Cobra meeting.

Speaking beforehand, he condemned the killing as "a sickening, deluded and
unforgivable act of violence". "My thoughts are with the victim and his family,"
Mr Johnson said.

Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, said the government took the safety of
British troops "extremely seriously". He said the Ministry of Defence would
urgently review whether "any further steps" were needed to protect military
personnel.

Chris Bryant, Labour's shadow home office minister, suggested that Parliament
may need to be recalled so that the government could update MPs on the
investigation into the killing.

Nick Raynsford, Labour's MP for Greenwich and Woolwich, said his constituents
would be "very, very shocked" by what had happened on their doorstep.

"I am deeply concerned that a member of the Armed Forces appears to have been
killed in what seems to be a very violent and unprovoked attack," he said.

"People are clearly very upset about what's happened. This is a very serious,
very unhappy incident and will profoundly shock the population in Woolwich,
where we've had a very good relationship between the civilian population and the
military over many years.

"The barracks have been a feature of Woolwich for hundreds of years and there's
a close relationship and a great deal of affection for the services and their
presence here in our community.

"So it's a deep and serious tragedy."

Lord West, the Labour peer and former security minister, told Sky News that the
killing was "the most grotesque and horrible crime".

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 22, 2013 Wednesday 6:27 PM GMT

'Soldier beheaded' in 'Islamist terror attack' oustide barracks in Woolwich;
Two suspected terrorists were shot by armed police after attacking a pedestrian,
believed to be a soldier, with a machete-style knife close to military barracks
in an 'Islamist attack'.

BYLINE: By Daily Telegraph reporters

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1220 words


Local MP Nick Raynsford said he had been told the man attacked in the street was
a soldier serving at the Royal Artillery Barracks near the attack.

Mr Raynsford said the soldier had been returning to the barracks after a day out
when he was attacked.

London Ambulance Service said one man, believed to be the victim of the machete
attack, had died in the incident and two others were injured, one seriously.

Several witnesses described seeing a "beheading" while another described seeing
a man wearing a Help for Heroes T-shirt being attacked with a machete-style
knife and dumped.

Prime Minister David Cameron called a meeting of the Government's Cobra crisis
committee, describing the incident as "truly shocking".

Cobra meetings are crisis response committees set up to coordinate the actions
of different agencies, including the security services, police and local
authorities.

The BBC reported sources had told them the men were shouting "Allahu Akbar" as
they carried out the attack and had filmed carrying it out.

One witness, called James, told LBC radio: "We saw clearly two knives, meat
cleavers, they were big kitchen knives like you would use in a butcher's, they
were hacking at this poor guy, we thought they were trying to remove organs from
him"

"These two guys were crazed, they were not there, they were just animals. They
then dragged him from the pavement and dumped his body in the middle of the
road.

"They took 20 minutes to arrive, the police - the armed response."

He added: "There was only a few people at first then traffic began to build up
because people were getting out of their cars to shout at them they were taking
no notice, they were standing there, I think they were proud of what they were
doing.

"When they dumped the body in the road, these two black guys had the opportunity
to hurt other people if they wanted to because there were brave women with the
dead guy on the floor, they were shielding and covering him. The attackers with
the knives were standing over these women.

"The guy with the gun, the tall guy with the beanie cap on, even a bus had
pulled up - he was going over to the bus and asking people to take his photo."

Luke Huseyin, 32, who lives in a block of flats on John Wilson Street, Woolwich,
close to where the incident happened.

He said: "I was at home and heard a big bang. I looked out of the window and saw
a car had crashed.

"It was a blue Vauxhall.

"Then two black guys got out of the car dragging a white guy across the road
towards the wall.

"One of the guys had a knife that looked about a foot long and a machete and the
other bloke had a gun.

"They started slashing him up with the knife and hitting him in the stomach with
the machete.

"I don't think it took long before he was dead.

"There were people passing by who were screaming and running away. I've never
seen anything like it.

"I'm still really shaken up.

"When he was dead, they dragged him out into the road and left him there.

"It was strange, they didn't run off, they just stood there as if they were
waiting for the police.

"It must've taken about 20 minutes for the police to arrive, I think it must've
been because they were waiting for armed police.

"The police officers got out of the car and the two black men ran towards them
with the gun.

"The police shot them.

"They fell to the ground. Then a helicopter landed.

"Think it must've been an air ambulance.

"The paramedics got out and I think they were working on the two men to try and
keep them alive.

"I don't know if they died, they were taken away in the helicopter.

"A blanket was put over the white guy lying in the road.

"I just can't believe what I saw."

Eyewitness Michael Atley, 28, who works for a building maintenance firm nearby,
said the two killers were in a blue BMW 3 series which mounted the pavement and
knocked the victim over.

They then beheaded him with either a meat cleaver or a machete before both were
shot by police officers who were on the scene within moments.

He told the Telegraph: "We heard the gunfire from the police shooting the two
people. There were a few shots, then a pause, then some more shots, maybe eight
shots in total.

"I spoke to an eyewitness who had seen the whole thing and he said they had run
the guy over and then started decapitating him.

"When the police arrived the black guys were waving a pistol and a machete or a
meat cleaver in the air and the police opened fire.

"When I got there the police were rushing to the bodies of the people they had
shot.

"A helicopter landed in the middle of the road and took the victim away. There
was a lot of blood. The paramedics wear blue gloves and they were covered in
blood."

He said children at a nearby school were locked in by their teachers.

Officers were called to John Wilson Street in Woolwich, south east London, at
around 2.20pm and the immediate area was shut down.

On its Twitter account, the Metropolitan Police helicopter team called the
incident "serious".

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "Officers have responded to an incident in John
Wilson Street at 2.20pm today.

"We believe at this stage officers were called to reports of an assault."

A police cordon was set up around 100 meters around where the incident happened.

A white police tent had been put up in John Wilson Street close to the junction
with Artillery Place and Wellington Street.

Two ambulances, two police cars could be seen in the road.

A picture posted on Twitter appeared to show three people lying in a street with
concerned people around them.

Images also appeared to show knives and blood stains at the junction of John
Wilson Street and Wellington Street.

Local residents said there was a heavy police presence in the area and most of
John Wilson Street had been cordoned off.

David Dixon, the head teacher of the nearby Mulgrave Primary School & Early
Years Centre, said he went into the street to find out what was going on after
hearing of the incident.

"There were lots of police," he told the BBC. "I saw a body lying in the road. I
went immediately back to shut the gate and to lock all the gates.

"The children were inside so they were as safe as possible."

All the traffic had been stopped and "there were gunshots after that," he added.

A woman working in an office overlooking the incident said: "I can see three
bodies lying in the road with red blankets over them.

"All the bodies are within about 30 to 40 metres of each other. It looks like
the police have covered them over because they must be dead.

"I didn't see the incident itself but I heard all the police and ambulance
sirens, and then I saw an air ambulance landing nearby.

"I could see armed police all over the place. There was a lot of commotion,
police running around in all different directions, as if they were looking for
other people.

"I've been told that a man was attacked with a machete."

London Air Ambulance confirmed a doctor and a paramedic were sent to the scene
at 14.27pm and remained on site.

London Ambulance Service was also called to the scene.

A spokeswoman for London Ambulance Service said: "We were called a 2.20pm to
reports of an incident at John Wilson Street.

"We sent two responders in cars, three ambulance crews, two duty officers and
London Air Ambulance were called out.

"We still have staff at the scene."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      May 22, 2013 Wednesday 10:28 PM GMT

Soldier killed in 'terror attack' outside London barracks

BYLINE: Philippe Naughton and Ruth Elkins

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 1176 words


Britain was facing up to its first fatal terrorist attack since the 7/7 bombings
tonight after two men killed a soldier on the streets of London with meat
cleavers.

They were shot by police who were summoned to the scene by passers-by.

Both attackers survived and were taken to separate London hospitals. One was
said to be in serious condition in hospital.

One Whitehall source said that the pair shouted 'Allahu Akbar' (God is great)
and reports said the men also filmed the attack.

Footage obtained by ITV News showed a black man with bloodied hands and carrying
a knife and machete speaking directly to a camera at the scene.

Making a series of political statements including "an eye for an eye, and a
tooth for a tooth", the man says: "I apologise that women had to witness this
today, but in our land, women have to see the same. (...) "We swear by almighty
Allah we will never stop fighting you". The man is then seen walking away, back
towards what appeared to be the body of the victim.

Security sources said that the incident was being treated as a politically
motivated attack -- possibly with Islamic ties. David Cameron said that he had
asked the Home Secretary to call together Whitehall's emergency committee.

"The killing in #Woolwich is truly shocking - I have asked the Home Secretary to
chair a COBRA meeting," the Prime Minister tweeted.

Speaking in Paris, he said there were strong indications that the murder was
terror related.

A Downing Street spokesman said the Prime Minister would cut short his trip to
Paris tonight to return to London and chair the COBRA meeting in the morning.
Sources said the Prime Minister would also cancel other engagements over the
coming days.

Theresa May, the Home Secretary said tonight she had been briefed by the
Director General of the Security Service MI5 on the "sickening and barbaric"
incident.

The incident began at around 2.20pm when two men in a blue Vauxhall car rammed
it into a man on John Wilson Street, Woolwich. Witnesses said that the
attackers, both black, then jumped out of the car and started attacking their
victim with meat cleavers.

The victim was described as a young white man wearing a Help for Heroes T-shirt.

The local MP, Nick Raynsford, said that he was believed to be a soldier from the
nearby Woolwich Barracks. Police said tonight they were unable to give any
further information about the man who had died.

An eyewitness who arrived at the scene soon after the initial crash told LBC
Radio that he and his partner initially thought that the two men were helping
the man on the ground but soon realised that they were attacking him.

"We saw two knives, meat cleavers," the witness, identified only as James, said.
"They were hacking at this poor guy, literally... They were trying to remove his
organs or something."

James said that he and his partner shouted at them to stop - as did other
passers-by, prompting one of the men to go back into the car and pull out a gun,
which he threatened them with.

James drove his own car further up the road, where he stopped and called the
police, telling them to bring armed units - which took some 20 minutes to
arrive.

In the meantime, the two men dragged their victims' body in the road but did not
leave the scene - even encouraging passengers on a passing bus to take their
picture.

"They were waiting for something and it turns out that they were waiting for
police to arrive," James said, adding that one of the men charged at an armed
police unit and was shot. The other was shot after trying to fire the gun.

Altogether six shots were fired.

The London Ambulance service said that one man had died at the scene and two
others had been taken to hospital, one in a serious condition.

The incident was reported by a local rapper, Boya Dee, who posted a series of
tweets recounting events.

"The first guy goes for the female fed [police officer] with the machete and she
not even ramping she took man out like robocop never seen nutn like it," he
wrote.

"Then the next breda try buss off the rusty 45 [gun] and it just backfires and
blows mans finger clean off... Feds didnt pet to just take him out!!"

He went on: "Mate ive seen alot of s*** im my time but that has to rank sumwhere
in the top 3. I couldnt believe my eyes. That was some movie s***."

Cheryl Spruce, who lives near the incident, said that a nearby primary school
was put into "lockdown".

She said: "The police were telling us to take an alternative route to get to
school. There were police everywhere. There were 30 to 40 police officers.

"Police officers in each road were stopping people from walking anywhere. It's
mayhem out there at the moment."

Speaking in Woolwich tonight, Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford
said: "I can understand that this incident will cause community concerns, and I
would like to reiterate that we are investigating what has taken place today.
The Metropolitan Police Service will investigate the circumstances that led to a
man to lose his life and the IPCC, as is routine, will investigate the
circumstances in which police discharged their weapons.

He continued: "There will continue to be an increased police presence in this
area, and the surrounding areas this evening. That presence will continue as
long as is needed.

"I am asking people to remain calm, and avoid unnecessary speculation. I will
update you again as soon as I am in a position to do so."

Mr Raynsford, the MP for Woolwich and Greenwich, said that he had spoken to both
borough commander Richard Wood and Lieutenant Colonel Bob Christopher at
Woolwich Barracks.

"The circumstances causing the incident are not yet clear. It's been suggested
it was the product of a road traffic accident, but that's pure speculation," he
said.

"I'll be talking to everyone who is involved, we will be trying to do everything
possible to try and ensure calm in the area. People will be very, very shocked.

"We think a serving soldier was the victim. We don't know the circumstances
surrounding the incident.

"We do know a number of weapons have been seized. They include a gun, various
knives, and a machete, apparently.

"The police clearly had to take action in order to try and arrest these
individuals.

"This is very shocking for a community which has a historic connection with the
military and where there are good relations between the community and the Army."

The Muslim Council of Britain condemned the "truly barbaric act". In a statement
it said: This is a truly barbaric act that has no basis in Islam and we condemn
this unreservedly. Our thoughts are with the victim and his family.

"We understand the victim is a serving member of the Armed Forces. Muslims have
long served in this country's Armed Forces, proudly and with honour.

"This attack on a member of the Armed Forces is dishonourable, and no cause
justifies this murder. This action will no doubt heighten tensions on the
streets of the United Kingdom.

"We call on all our communities, Muslim and non-Muslim, to come together in
solidarity to ensure the forces of hatred do not prevail."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Play rekindles ordeal for survivor of terror attack

BYLINE: Scott Begbie

SECTION: FEATURES; ARTS; Performing arts; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 426 words


FOR the audience the play about one man's desperate bid to survive the Mumbai
terror attack is a gripping tale.

For Roger Hunt it is far more than that - it is his story.

Almost five years ago, the Macduff dad was caught up in the bloody atrocity that
claimed 172 lives across the Indian city.

On a business trip, he had just finished dinner in the Oberoi Hotel when gunmen
started spraying bullets, killing guests and staff.

Fleeing to his room, Roger was trapped in hiding for two days while he could
hear terrorists roaming the hotel, shooting those they found and setting off
explosions.

His ordeal only ended when he was rescued by commandos.

Since then, Roger has rebuilt his life and moved on, part of which is seeing the
staging of the play Be Silent Or Be Killed, based on his book about his
terrifying ordeal.

The work arrives at The Lemon Tree for two nights from tomorrow, as part of a
Scottish tour by Inverness-based company Right Lines Productions.

Roger, 47, said: "I think they have done a fantastic job of capturing the
intensity and the main theme is true to what I wrote in the book.

"What you are seeing on stage is almost identical to what happened to me. It's
right on the money.

"It does bring back certain aspects of what happened during the attack, and
post-attack, that you had stored away."

The play follows his intense fight for survival and also the anxiety of his
loved ones at home, including his wife Irene, 46, and his two daughters - Lisa,
24, and Stephanie, 18, and son Christopher, 22.

Roger said: "I watched it with my girls in the audience and I thought it was
tough because of what I was feeling for them. It was quite emotional."

Roger hopes people will not only find the play to be a gripping drama, but have
a deeper resonance.

"Even if people have forgotten about Mumbai, the reality is there's always
something else just around the corner - the Boston bombings, for example.

"There's always something that says terrorism isn't that far away from either
our front door or TV screens."

Roger's life has moved on since Mumbai, despite the nightmares and guilt he
initially felt.

He said: "I have coped well with it and I've been fortunate. For me. it was
setting small goals."

That included leaving Royal Bank of Scotland, where he had worked for 26 years,
joining the prison service for a couple of years and then joining Aberdeen
International Airport two years ago, where he is now the operations director.

"It's only ever about moving forward," said Robert. "The focus is on the
positive, the focus is on the future."

sbegbie@ajl.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MY STORY: Roger Hunt.
GRIPPING DRAMA: Helen Mackay and James Mackenzie in Be Silent Or Be Killed by
Right Lines Productions.
terror: Indian army soldiers during Mumbai terror attacks in 2008.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EE


                      Copyright 2013 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Play rekindles ordeal for survivor of terror attack

BYLINE: Scott Begbie

SECTION: FEATURES; ARTS; Performing arts; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 426 words


FOR the audience the play about one man's desperate bid to survive the Mumbai
terror attack is a gripping tale.

For Roger Hunt it is far more than that - it is his story.

Almost five years ago, the Macduff dad was caught up in the bloody atrocity that
claimed 172 lives across the Indian city.

On a business trip, he had just finished dinner in the Oberoi Hotel when gunmen
started spraying bullets, killing guests and staff.

Fleeing to his room, Roger was trapped in hiding for two days while he could
hear terrorists roaming the hotel, shooting those they found and setting off
explosions.

His ordeal only ended when he was rescued by commandos.

Since then, Roger has rebuilt his life and moved on, part of which is seeing the
staging of the play Be Silent Or Be Killed, based on his book about his
terrifying ordeal.

The work arrives at The Lemon Tree for two nights from tomorrow, as part of a
Scottish tour by Inverness-based company Right Lines Productions.

Roger, 47, said: "I think they have done a fantastic job of capturing the
intensity and the main theme is true to what I wrote in the book.

"What you are seeing on stage is almost identical to what happened to me. It's
right on the money.

"It does bring back certain aspects of what happened during the attack, and
post-attack, that you had stored away."

The play follows his intense fight for survival and also the anxiety of his
loved ones at home, including his wife Irene, 46, and his two daughters - Lisa,
24, and Stephanie, 18, and son Christopher, 22.

Roger said: "I watched it with my girls in the audience and I thought it was
tough because of what I was feeling for them. It was quite emotional."

Roger hopes people will not only find the play to be a gripping drama, but have
a deeper resonance.

"Even if people have forgotten about Mumbai, the reality is there's always
something else just around the corner - the Boston bombings, for example.

"There's always something that says terrorism isn't that far away from either
our front door or TV screens."

Roger's life has moved on since Mumbai, despite the nightmares and guilt he
initially felt.

He said: "I have coped well with it and I've been fortunate. For me. it was
setting small goals."

That included leaving Royal Bank of Scotland, where he had worked for 26 years,
joining the prison service for a couple of years and then joining Aberdeen
International Airport two years ago, where he is now the operations director.

"It's only ever about moving forward," said Roger. "The focus is on the
positive, the focus is on the future."

sbegbie@ajl.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MY STORY: Roger Hunt.
GRIPPING DRAMA: Helen Mackay and James Mackenzie in Be Silent Or Be Killed by
Right Lines Productions.
terror: Indian army soldiers during Mumbai terror attacks in 2008.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EE


                      Copyright 2013 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Soldier is hacked to death in busy street by 'crazed' terrorists;
HORROR ATTACK FILMED KNIFEMEN SHOT BY POLICE

BYLINE: PRESS ASSOCIATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 573 words


A MAN believed to be a soldier was brutally murdered in a horrific street
attack, which ended with two suspected terrorists being shot by police marksmen.

Eyewitnesses said the victim was hacked to death "like a piece of meat", with
some suggesting his attackers tried to behead him.

Earlier reports said that the attackers also filmed the chilling murder - before
being shot by the police.

One Whitehall source said they were heard to shout 'Allahu Akbar' - God is Great
- during yesterday's gruesome killing in Woolwich, south east London.

Woolwich and Greenwich MP Nick Raynsford said he understood the dead man, who
wore a Help for Heroes T-shirt, was a serving soldier.

The outrage echoed a plot cooked up a Birmingham-based gang to kidnap a Muslim
British soldier and film him being beheaded "like a pig".

Ringleader Parviz Khan, from Alum Rock, wanted to send the footage to Al Jazeera
to deter Muslims from joining the British army.

Now aged 37, he was jailed for life at Leicester Crown Court in 2008 after
admitting the sickening kidnap plot.

Judge Mr Justice Henriques told him: "You not only plotted to kill a soldier but
you intended to film a most brutal killing."

Four other Birmingham-based men involved in Khan's gang were also jailed for
their role in the kidnap plot.

One of the men behind yesterday's attack was filmed wielding a bloodied meat
cleaver and saying: "We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting
you", in footage shown on ITV News.

Home Secretary Theresa May branded the attack "sickening and barbaric".

Prime Minister David Cameron returned home early after a trip to France last
night and said Britain has faced terror attacks such as the one in Woolwich
before and said: "We will never buckle in the face of it."

He added: "We will look at every aspect of security, we will look at every
aspect of what you can learn from these incidents. But we also have to remember
that in a free country like ours, the best way to defeat terrorism is to make
sure that you continue to go about your life, to live your life and show that
terrorists can never win, and that's important."

One witness, identified as James, said he and his partner saw two black men
attack a young man aged around 20 in a Help for Heroes T-shirt with kitchen
knives like he was "a piece of meat".

"They were hacking at this poor guy, literally," he told LBC radio.

"They were hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him."

Fighting back tears, he added: "These two guys were crazed.

"They were just animals. They dragged him from the pavement and dumped his body
in the middle of the road and left his body there."

He said that after the "horrendous" attack, the two men, in their 20s, just
stood around, waving knives and a gun, even asking people nearby to take
pictures of them "as if they wanted to be on TV or something".

"They were oblivious to anything, they were more worried about having their
photo taken, running up and down the road," he said.

"They had no intention of running off or leaving or anything. "In my opinion,
they were waiting for the police to arrive to be shot by the police. That's the
only thing I can think.

"It's horrendous what they were doing to that guy."

Some "brave" women tried to shield the man on the ground from them, he added.

The suspect calmly walks towards the camera with what appears to be two large
knives clasped by the handles in his bloodied left hand and said: "An eye for an
eye, a tooth for a tooth."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Forensic scientists at the murder scene last night.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2013 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 11:42 AM GMT

Cameron: Terror attack a 'betrayal of Islam'

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 168 words


The brutal terrorist murder of a "brave soldier" on the streets of London will
bring the UK together and "make us stronger", David Cameron declared.

Speaking outside Downing Street after chairing a meeting of the Government's
emergency Cobra committee, the British Prime Minister said the attack "sickens
us all" and was a "betrayal of Islam".

"The people who did this were trying to divide us. They should know something
like this will only bring us together and make us stronger," he said.

"This country will be absolutely resolute in its stand against violent extremism
and terror. We will never give in to terror or terrorism in any of its forms.

"This view is shared by every community in our country. This was not just an
attack on Britain and on the British way of life; it was also a betrayal of
Islam and of the Muslim communities who give so much to our country.

"There is nothing in Islam that justifies this truly dreadful act."

He said the best response was for everyone to "go about our normal lives"

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2013 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Bucks Herald

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Council holds minute's silence after London terror attack

LENGTH: 120  words


A minute's silence has been held by Bucks county councillors following the
terrorist killing of a soldier in London yesterday.

After UKIP councillor Chris Adams proposed the silence, council leader Martin
Tett said: "On behalf of the council, we all utterly condemn the horrendous
incidents that took place yesterday."

Lib Dem councillor Raj Khan told the Bucks Herald the attack was barbaric and
inhumane butchery'.

He said: "There is no defence whatsoever.

"The Muslim community is very concerned that the good name of their religion
once again has been associated with thugs and criminals who profess to be
Muslims."

He called on the wider community to support their Muslim friends who may be
targeted by Islamaphobic abuse.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MCBH


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Bury Times

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Woolwich soldier killed in suspected terror attack was a Fusilier

SECTION: BURY NEWS (BURY NEWS)

LENGTH: 220 words


THE victim of the suspected terrorist killing in Woolwich has been named as
father-of-one Lee Rigby.

Drummer Rigby, aged 25, from Crumpsall, was a member of the 2nd Battalion The
Royal Regiment of Fusiliers , attached to the regimental recruiting team in
London.

Sgt Barry Ward said he was "a loving father" to his two-year-old son Jack, and
had "a very bubbly character".

A shocked and tearful neighbour outside the family home, a council house on the
Langley estate in Middleton, said: "He had always wanted to be in the army since
he was knee-high."

The woman, who did not want to be named, added: "He was a lovely lad. He lived
around here for years and went to Middleton Tech."

A steady stream of relatives and friends visited the house throughout the day to
support the family.

Police and PCSOs also stood guard outside the house and patrolled the street.

A total of four people, including the two men shot by police, have now been
arrested in connection with the killing.

Scotland Yard said a man and a woman, both aged 29, were held today on suspicion
of conspiracy to murder and are being questioned at a police station in south
London.

The two men who were shot, aged 22 and 28, have been arrested on suspicion of
murder and are still in hospital and are said to be in a stable condition with
non life-threatening injuries.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Strong indications SE London attack by terrorists

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 298 words


LONDON - British Prime Minister David Cameron said there are strong indications
that the attack in southeast London that killed one man is a terrorist incident,
during a press conference in Paris on Wednesday.

"It is the most appalling crime. The police are urgently seeking all facts about
this case. There are strong indications that it is a terrorist incident,"
Cameron said at a press conference with French President Francois Hollande.

"I will return to London tonight so that I can chair a COBRA meeting again in
the morning to make sure that we have all of the facts of this case," the prime
minister said.

Two men attacked one man near the Royal Artillery Barracks in Woolwich in
Southeast London on Wednesday afternoon, leaving one dead, two injured,
Britain's Metropolitan Police (MPS) said.

A man was attacked by two other men near the Royal Artillery Barracks in
Woolwich in Southeast London on Wednesday afternoon, Britain's Metropolitan
Police (MPS) said.

The two attackers were carrying weapons and were shot by police arrived on the
scene. They have been taken to separate hospitals for treatment and are
considered as suspects, the MPS Commander Simon Letchford said.

The man attacked was later pronounced dead, with local media reports saying he
was a soldier. British Ministry of Defense has not confirmed the information.

British Home Secretary Theresa May is chairing COBRA tonight to "bring together
the police, the security services, all of the agencies so that we gather every
piece of information that we can," Cameron said.

Details of the attack have not been released by the police. Local media reports
quoting government sources and witnesses said the victim was hit by a car of the
attackers, and then assaulted by knives. Pool of blood could be seen on the
scene.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Crawley Observer

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Crawley Muslim president condemns Woolwich terrorist attack

LENGTH: 197  words


The president of a Muslim group in Crawley has condemned the terrorist attack in
Woolwich, South London, yesterday (Wednesday May 22).

The atrocity saw a British soldier killed in a street in broad daylight in a
politically-motivated attack.

Police attended Langley Green Mosque in Langley Drive, this morning (Thursday
May 23) in what Ahsan Ahmedi from the Ahmadiyya Muslim Association called a
vigil' to reassure the community.

Mr Ahmedi, who is the president of the association branded the terrorist attack
disgusting'.

Speaking from the mosque on Langley Drive, he said: "We are totally against what
happened. We promote peace and that is part of Islam. What happened yesterday is
not true Islam.

"I contacted the police as soon as I heard what had happened to say we were
shocked and denounce what had happened.

"The police got back to us and said they would be setting up a vigil around the
mosque to make sure there is no retaliation. Unfortunately that can happen .
When I got here this morning, the police were already here, they had been
watching the mosque all night.  We have had so much support."

For the full story, pick up a copy of the Observer on Wednesday (May 29).

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPCO


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 9:58 PM GMT

Woolwich terror attack: 'Killers were just animals'

LENGTH: 579 words


YESTERDAY'S terror atrocity was witnessed by scores of shocked people as the
killers tried to terrorise Britain.

Eyewitness Luke Huseyin, whose flat overlooks the scene, said he saw the car
crash that marked the start of the barbaric attack.

He then saw two black men, one armed with a gun, drag a white man across the
road and launch a sickening attack on him with a foot-long machete.

Luke, 32, said: "They started slashing him up with the knife and hitting him in
the stomach with the machete. I don't think it took long before he was dead.

"There were people passing by who were screaming and running away. I've never
seen anything like it. I'm still really shaken up.

"When he was dead, they dragged him out into the road and left him.

"It was strange, they didn't run off, they just stood there as if they were
waiting for the police. It must have taken about 20 minutes for the police to
arrive - I think it must have been because they were waiting for armed police.

"The police officers got out of the car and the two black men ran towards them
with the gun. The police shot them.

"They fell to the ground, then a helicopter landed. It must have been an air
ambulance.

"The paramedics got out and I think they were working on the two men to try to
keep them alive.

"A blanket was put over the white guy lying in the road. I just can't believe
what I saw."

Another witness, who identified himself only as James, said the attackers set
upon victim with kitchen knives like he was "a piece of meat".

Fighting back tears, he said: "They were hacking at him, chopping him, cutting
him.

"They were just animals."

Joe Tallant, 20, a van loader who lives near the scene, said: "I saw a guy with
no head lying on the ground. He had been decapitated.

"There were two black guys walking around his body saying: 'This is what God
would've wanted.'

"My friend and her mum were walking up the hill and the mum came straight to the
victim.

"She asked the black guys: 'Can I help him?' And one of them said he was already
dead but she could go.

"Then one of them said: 'No man is coming near this body, only women'. She was
so brave, she didn't care what happened to her. She knelt down by his side and
comforted him.

"She held his hand and put her other hand on his chest. I think she might have
been praying.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

New threat to Britain: lone wolves under the MI5 radar;
ANALYSIS Out of nowhere, without command or control from terror groups,
attackers escape notice

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 715 words


THE Woolwich attack has all the hallmarks of the very nightmare MI5 has feared -
low-key fanatics arming themselves with basic weapons and targeting a soldier or
other victim at random.

The police and security services have had repeated success in foiling plots
since the July 7 attacks in 2005, which left 52 innocent people dead, but they
have been under constant threat of the lone wolf terrorist.

Dubbed the "Nike terrorists" after the brand's slogan "Just Do It", Britain has
faced a new generation of Islamic extremists that are nearly impossible to
detect.

They are self-starting fanatics who have radicalised themselves over the
internet and, while many may be inspired by al-Qaeda, they operate without
command or control from the terror group.

MI5 was last night urgently trawling through its systems to see if the alleged
assailants in Woolwich were known to them. The nature of the new threat is that
such attacks can come out of nowhere, with no network or obvious plot for MI5 or
the police to detect in advance.

In 2010, Roshonara Choudhry was convicted of attempting to murder Stephen Timms,
an MP, with a knife at his constituency office after having watched extremist
material on the internet.

Earlier this year, a group of Birmingham terrorists who turned up too late for
their target, a rally by the English Defence League, were only picked up by the
security services after they were stopped driving home without insurance by a
traffic officer. The group had knives, guns and viable home-made bombs.

Senior Whitehall sources have regularly expressed relief that random, basic but
deadly attacks have not been more commonplace in Britain.

The threat of self-starters increased dramatically with the emergence of Anwar
al-Awlaki, an al-Qaeda preacher based in Yemen. He gave sermons in English over
the internet and encouraged followers anywhere to launch whatever attack they
could, spawning the "Just Do It" motto. Awlaki was killed in 2010 but almost
every fanatic convicted of terror plots in Britain in recent years has taken
inspiration from him.

Last year, Sir Jonathan Evans, who was then director-general of MI5, warned that
one of the biggest threats was from "lone actors".

John O'Connor, a former Flying Squad commander at Scotland Yard, said last
night: "This has all the hallmarks of a very low-key terrorist incident which
raises a number of problems for the authorities.

"This type of attack is very difficult to protect against because it is not as
though you are talking about a network of people following their plans.

"This raises the whole ball game. "The bottom line of it is that this could
spring up anywhere and that's the concern.

It's very difficult to keep a tab on where this is going and where the threat
level is."

He added: "It seems to me that this is a departure from the established type of
attacks that you see or the established plans that you see of terrorism causing
mass murder.

"You're into a new round of terror threats in this country, particularly as you
don't know the full extent of it."

The security services and police have foiled more than a dozen terror plots on
British soil since 2005, including a major plot in every year since then.

These have included a plan to blow up airliners with liquid-based bombs in 2006,
targeting shopping centres and nightclubs with fertiliser-based explosives and a
plot to target the Stock Exchange. This year, 11 men were jailed as part of a
plot to attack Britain with eight suicide bombs.

The threat to soldiers has been constant. In 2008, a Muslim terror group was
jailed for planning to kidnap a soldier and film his execution. Earlier this
year, three men were jailed for a terror plot that included targeting the
militarylinked town of Royal Wootton Bassett.

1 2.20pm Victim, reported to be a serving soldier, is hit by a car after it
mounts pavement. Two men jump out of the car and attack him, shouting 'Allahu
Akbar' and using knives and a meat cleaver attempt to behead him

2 2.30pm The men drag the victim's body into the middle of the road and ask
bystanders to take photographs

3 2.40pmWhen armed police arrive, one man charges at their car with a knife
while the other aims his gun. Officers fire. Both attackers are injured, and are
taken to separate hospitals

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A picture from a video of the murder scene posted on YouTube, above,
the arrival of an emergency helicopter and, far right, the soldier's body and
his attackers lie in the street
BAOTRI_TRAN / REX FEATURES/ @YUSUF_KAYALAR/WOOLWICH FINEST/BING MAPS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;

HACKED TO DEATH IN TERROR ATTACK;
Attacker films himself as man is killed in meat cleaver mayhem

BYLINE: JOE CHURCHER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22,23

LENGTH: 815 words


ONE of the men behind a barbaric terror attack on the streets of London
yesterday was filmed wielding a bloodied meat cleaver and saying, "We swear by
almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you."

The black man, dressed in a grey hooded jacket and black woolly hat, apologises
to members of the public who witnessed the horrific scenes before making a
number of political statements.

In the footage, obtained by ITV News, he is heard to say: "We must fight them as
they fight us. An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.

"I apologise that women have had to witness this today, but in our land our
women have to see the same. You people will never be safe. Remove your
government, they don't care about you." The attacker, who spoke clear English
without a foreign accent, is then seen walking towards his victim, lying in the
street in Woolwich, south east London. Another man is stood over the body.

Eyewitnesses said the victim, who a local MP said was believed to be a soldier,
was hacked to death by the two men, with some suggesting the attackers tried to
behead him.

Home Secretary Theresa May said: "I have been briefed by the Metropolitan Police
Commissioner and the Director General of the Security Service.

"It has been confirmed to me that a man has been brutally murdered this
afternoon in south east London. Two other men were shot by armed police and they
are currently receiving treatment for their injuries.

"I have called a COBR (Cabinet Office Briefing Room) meeting where I will
receive further briefing. This is a sickening and barbaric attack."

David Cameron described the attack as "truly shocking".

Downing Street said the Prime Minister, who was planning to stay in Paris
overnight after meeting the French president, would be returning last night
instead.

A spokesman for Ed Miliband said the Labour leader was cutting short a visit to
Germany to return to the UK as soon as possible.

A Buckingham Palace spokesman said: "The Queen is of course concerned by the
report of an attack in Woolwich earlier today. Her Majesty is being kept
informed.'' The spokesman also confirmed the Queen will visit the King's Troop
Royal Horse Artillery at Woolwich barracks on May 31, which was planned before
today's attack.

At a press conference in Paris, the Prime Minister said Britain has faced terror
attacks such as the one in Woolwich before and added: "We will never buckle in
the face of it.'' In expressing solidarity with the PM, French president
Francois Hollande referred to the murdered man as a "British soldier".

Other footage and pictures show a frenzied scene at the junction of John Wilson
Street and Wellington Street in Woolwich.

Some images show three men lying scattered in the street, surrounded by
discarded weapons and splashes of blood.

Eyewitnesses huddled behind a police cordon as around 30 to 40 officers secured
the scene, just around the corner from Mulgrave Primary School.

Woolwich and Greenwich MP Nick Raynsford said it was his understanding that the
deceased was a serving soldier.

He said he had spoken to both borough commander Richard Wood and Lieutenant
Colonel Bob Christopher at Woolwich Barracks.

Mr Raynsford said: "It's been suggested it was the product of a road traffic
accident, but that's pure speculation.

"I'll be talking to everyone who is involved, we will be trying to do everything
possible to try and ensure calm in the area. People will be very, very shocked."
One witness, identified as James Heneghan, said he and his partner saw two black
men attack a young man aged around 20-years-old in a Help for Heroes T-shirt
with kitchen knives like he was "a piece of meat".

"They were hacking at this poor guy, literally," he told LBC radio. "They were
hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him."

London Ambulance Service confirmed a man was found dead at the scene, while two
other men were taken to hospital, one of them in a serious condition.

John Wilson Street was shut in both directions between Artillery Place and New
Ferry Approach.

Eyewitnesses took to Twitter to recount the horrific events.

One user, using the account @Boyadee, wrote of seeing two men decapitate another
man in front of him as he went to a nearby shop.

He suggested that the men looked like they were on drugs, waiting for the police
to arrive and then going towards them with "just two machete and an old rusty
lookin revolver".

"I couldn't believe my eyes. That was some movie sh*t," he wrote.

The Ministry of Defence said it was urgently looking at the reports that the
incident involved a soldier but had no further comment.

The incident occurred some 200 yards from the Royal Artillery Barracks, adjacent
to Woolwich Common, the historical home of the Royal Artillery. The barracks,
also known as the Woolwich station, now houses a number of the King's Troop
Royal Horse Artillery and independent companies of the Grenadier and Coldstream
Guards.

welshnews@dailypost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police seal off the crime scene in Woolwich
Scenes of Crime Officers at the spot where a man was killed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DPW


                       Copyright 2013 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Dinnington Guardian

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

WOOLWICH TERROR ATTACK: MP Patrick Mercer gives his reaction to brutal killing
of British soldier

BYLINE: Sam Chetwynd

LENGTH: 120  words


Newark and Sherwood MP Patrick Mercer said he is extremely disturbed' by
yesterday's events in Woolwich.

A man, believed to be a member of the armed forces, was killed in a suspected
terrorist attack in south-east London.

Eyewitnesses say the victim, wearing a Help For Heroes t-shirt, was hacked to
death by two men who were later were shot and wounded by police.

Two men spent the night under arrest in hospital as counter-terrorism police
investigate the killing.

Mr Mercer, who commanded the Worcesters and Mercian Regiment, spoke to the
Guardian this morning about the attack.

He said: "I am extremely disturbed but I am delighted that we had such brave
citizens on the ground and the police force reacted so quickly."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NDIG


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Dinnington Guardian

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

WOOLWICH TERROR ATTACK: Help For Heroes reaction to brutal killing of soldier in
London

BYLINE: Sam Chetwynd

LENGTH: 124  words


A local Help For Heroes volunteer has given his reaction to yesterday
afternoon's incident in Woolwich.

A man, believed to be a member of the armed forces, was killed in a suspected
terrorist attack in south-east London.

Eyewitnesses say the victim, wearing a Help For Heroes t-shirt, was hacked to
death by two men who were later were shot and wounded by police.

Two men spent the night under arrest in hospital as counter-terrorism police
investigate the killing.

Tony Eaton, the charity's north-east regional co-ordinator, said: "Help For
Heroes are aware of the incident. It's a police matter."

"Our sympathies are with the victim's family and we are focusing on supporting
the wounded whether serving abroad or veterens as well as their families."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NDIG


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Dinnington Guardian

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

WOOLWICH TERROR ATTACK: Suspected murderer's former Saxilby home is raided

BYLINE: Claire O'neill

LENGTH: 192  words


Police have raided the former Lincolnshire home of one of the men thought to
have murdered a soldier in a suspected terrorist attack south East London
yesterday.

Michael Adebolajo is thought to have lived in the village of Saxilby at some
point with his family.

A Lincolnshire Police spokesperson said: "Lincolnshire Police can confirm that
the Metropolitan Police executed a search warrant under Police and Criminal
Evidence act PACE at an address in Lincolnshire."

"This is in connection with the ongoing investigation into the murder of a man
in Woolwich."

"The Metropolitan Police are not prepared to discuss the matter further at this
stage."

The attack happened in Woolwich in broad daylight at 2.20pm as horrified
witnesses, including children, looked on.

Eyewitnesses say the victim was hacked to death by two men shouting Allahu Akbar
- God is Great.

A man, thought to be Adebolajo was filmed holding a meat cleaver and knife, his
hands covered in blood, saying he carried out the attack because British
soldiers are killing Muslims every day.

They were shot as police tried to arrest them, are now under armed guard at
separate hospitals in London.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NDIG


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Dinnington Guardian

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

WOOLWICH TERROR ATTACK: MP Kevin Barron gives his reaction to brutal killing of
British soldier

BYLINE: Hayley Gallimore

LENGTH: 148  words


Rother Valley MP Kevin Barron has reacted to yesterday's shocking' events in
Woolwich, London.

The MP, who is currently on holiday abroad, said there could be no reason for
such an inhuman' act to take place.

A man, believed to be a member of the armed forces, was killed in a suspected
terrorist attack in south-east London.

Eyewitnesses say the victim, wearing a Help For Heroes t-shirt, was hacked to
death by two men who were later were shot and wounded by police.

Two men spent the night under arrest in hospital as counter-terrorism police
investigate the killing.

Mr Barron said: "This action is shocking, there can be no reason for such an
inhuman act to take place."

"The perpetrators of this must not be allowed to divide our communities."

The Labour MP said he had been in contact with South Yorkshire Police who were
asking that everyone stays calm in the aftermath of the attack.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NDIG


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Dinnington Guardian

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

WOOLWICH TERROR ATTACK: Suspected murderer's former home on Hotchkin Avenue in
Saxilby is raided

BYLINE: Sam Chetwynd

LENGTH: 53  words


Police have raided the former Lincolnshire home of one of the men thought to
have murdered a soldier in a suspected terrorist attack south East London
yesterday.

Michael Adebolajo is thought to have lived on Hotchkin Avenue in Saxilby at some
point with his family.

Check back here soon for reaction from local residents.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NDIG


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Dinnington Guardian

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

WOOLWICH TERROR ATTACK: Bassetlaw MP John Mann calls for answers over brutal
killing of British soldier

LENGTH: 185  words


Bassetlaw MP John Mann has spoken of his shock over the killing of a solider in
south-east London yesterday.

The attack happened in Woolwich in broad daylight at 2.20pm as horrified
witnesses, including children, looked on.

Eyewitnesses say the victim, wearing a Help For Heroes t-shirt, was hacked to
death by two men shouting Allahu Akbar - God is Great.

The two men were later were shot and wounded by police and spent the night under
arrest in hospital as counter-terrorism police investigate the killing.

Mr Mann said of the incident: "It is crazy that there are people full of hatred
and madness in this country as well as elsewhere in the world."

"We need to be vigilant against them."

"It's concerning that the intelligence service had these people on their radar."

"We need to get to find out exactly what has gone on there. We have to be
arresting these terrorists."

Police swooped on a house in Hotchkin Avenue in Saxilby this morning in
connection with one of the men.

It is thought that Muslim convert Michael Adebolajo - one of the suspects in the
attack - was registered as living at the address in 2003.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NDIG


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Dinnington Guardian

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

WOOLWICH TERROR ATTACK: Villagers' shock at terror suspect Saxilby link

BYLINE: Claire O'neill

LENGTH: 147  words


Residents in Saxilby have spoken of their shock as police searched a house in
connection with the suspected terrorist killing of a soldier in London yesterday
(Wednesday 22nd May).

Police swooped on the home on Hotchkin Avenue in the village this morning.

It is thought that Muslim convert Michael Adebolajo - one of the suspects in the
attack - was registered as living at the address in 2003.

"We knew nothing about it until about 9.30am this morning when I saw a police
car blocking the road," said local resident George Martin.

"You just don't think things like this will happen in a place like this."

"It was a barbaric attack and is shocking to think someone involved in it may
have lived her in Saxilby."

Another resident, who did not wish to be named, said they couldn't believe it
when they heard the news.

"This is a quiet, peaceful place. Not a place connected with terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NDIG


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Eastwood Advertiser

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Crime commissioner and local MP speak out about terrorist attack

LENGTH: 177  words


The Nottinghamshire Crime Commissioner and Eastwood MP have spoken out about a
soldier killed in a terrorist attack in London yesterday.

Crime commissioner Paddy Tipping described the attack as tragic' and MP Gloria
De Piero said it was an appalling act of terrorism'.

A man was attacked and killed near to army barracks in a street in Woolwich
yesterday afternoon.

Two men were seen in the street with bloodied meat cleavers and a machete.

Mr Tipping said he was amazed at how local people approached the offenders.

"I was struck at how brazen the whole thing was, and what struck me was how
local people took the offenders on.

"It was a tragic event."

Gloria De Piero said "Everyone is shocked by what has happened. It's a truly
appalling act of terrorism.

"All of my thoughts are with the family and friends of the victim. Those who are
responsible must now face the full force of British justice. Politicians of all
Parties must work together to ensure that happens."

The two mem were shot and wounded by police and are now recovering in hospital
under armed guard.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEAA


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Enfield Independent

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Assembly member discusses Woolwich terror attack at police meeting

BYLINE: Jaber Mohamed

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 272 words


The London Assembly member for Haringey and Enfield - who chairs the capital's
police and crime committee - has described the Woolwich terror attack as
"horrific".

Joanne McCartney will be questioning Metropolitan Police officers during the
meeting at 2pm today.

Yesterday afternoon at roughly 2.20pm police were called to John Wilson Street,
Woolwich, after reports that one man was being assaulted by two other men.

When officers arrived they discovered the men had beheaded a serving soldier,
who has not been named.

Mrs McCartney said her thoughts were with the victim's family and members of the
armed forces.

She said: "The attack in Woolwich was horrific.

"At this afternoon's London Assembly Police and Crime Committee we will ask
questions about the attack and the police's response.

"At this difficult time our thoughts are with the victim's family and his
colleagues in the armed forces."

The two men, who were believed to be carrying multiple weapons including a gun,
were shot by police.

They were then taken to separate London hospitals to receive treatment for their
injuries.

The Labour politician called for calm and condemned the actions of far-right
groups.

She added: "We need calm and the police and authorities need to be given the
time and space to carry out their investigations so that those responsible can
be brought to justice.

"The scenes last night in Woolwich of a small number of far-right protesters
were sickening.

"Now is the time for everybody in London to come together and defeat hatred and
terror in all its forms."

The soldier's next of kin have been informed and a post-mortem exam will take
place later today.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mum's horror over murder;
London terror attack brings back difficult memories

BYLINE: ADRIAN PEARSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 446 words


THE mother of a fallen soldier has spoken of her horror at the terrorist killing
of a young man outside her son's former barracks.

A man believed to be a serving soldier wearing a Help For Heroes T-shirt was
murdered in a machete attack in broad daylight on a London street yesterday.

Two men involved in the incident were shot by Metropolitan Police officers and
are being questioned in hospitals in the capital. Former Coldstream Guard
Michael Sweeney, who was killed in Afghanistan aged 19, was based at the same
Woolwich barracks before he was deployed to war in 2010.

Today his mum Kim, of Blyth in Northumberland, said the violent killing had
brought back difficult memories of losing her own son and a fear for soldiers'
safety in the UK.

She said: "It's got to be very hard for his family to know that he wasn't even
in conflict at the time and it's an attack in the street.

"It's bad enough thinking about your family in Afghanistan trying to keep the
peace but for it to happen in your own country is a disgrace.

"It's brought up a lot of emotions for us and memories of our own son. That
family will be supported by a huge community of military families devastated by
what's happened."

Michael, who was in 1st Battalion Coldstream Guards, was based in Woolwich -
where his parents Kim and Michael visited him - in 2009.

It is a key location for London-based military, with several different regiments
based there.

She said: "You'll see soldiers walking around and they're recognisable whether
they're in uniform or not. It's a very mixed area but pretty quiet. A lot of
Coldstream Guards pass through there."

Major Chester Potts, chairman of the Northumberland Fusiliers Association, said
the sympathies of every serving soldier and veteran in Tyneside were with the
family of the dead soldier today.

He said: "Soldiers put their lives in danger for their country but they never
expect to be attacked back home 200 yards from their own barracks."

He said he expected the Government would now be reviewing security at bases,
including in the North East of England, but he also urged a reassessment of the
danger soldiers face wearing their uniforms in public.

"It's easy to identify a soldier and they are vulnerable. During the Northern
Ireland troubles soldiers weren't allowed to wear their uniforms in public.
After the peace agreements came around it gave the Army a more public front but
this is going to have to be reviewed again."

The incident was linked to terrorism shortly after police were called to the
scene. Video footage emerged showing a man holding a bloodied cleaver and making
political statements.

The Prime Minister is today chairing a Cobra emergency meeting.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN SERVICE Michael Sweeney
BRUTAL KILLING The scene in Woolwich where a serving soldier was attacked on the
street

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2013 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 7:27 PM GMT

Exclusive: Fury as anti-war campaigners blame action in ISRAEL for Woolwich
terror attack

BYLINE: Owen Bennett

LENGTH: 526 words


AN ANTI-WAR group has blamed Britian's overseas action, including support for
Israel and assisting the French in Mali, as the catalyst for yesterday's
horrifying murder in Woolwich.

Lindsey German, convenor of Stop the War Coalition released an 'I-told-you-so'
statement less than 24 hours after British soldier Lee Rigby, 25, was brutally
hacked to death in south London.

Tory MP Robert Halfon, who helped launch the 'Friends of Israel Initiative' in
2010 express his disgust and disbelief at the behaviour of Stop the War.

Speaking exclusively to the Express, he said: "Stop the War Coalition should be
ashamed of themselves for appearing to make a link between extreme Islamist
terrorists in Woolwich and the only democratic nation in the Middle East, the
state of Israel.

"The idea that this is linked in anyway is sick in the extreme and everybody who
reads the Stop The War statement will see it for what it is."

The statement, which was issued at 10.15am this morning, calls the killing in
Woolwich "horrific", before going on to say "there can be no justification for a
murderous attack on an individual soldier in the streets of London."

But the statement then goes on to say the reaction to the murder has failed to
deal with the "political causes underlying such attacks."

It continues: "The simple truth is that there were no such cases in Britain
before the start of the 'war on terror' in 2001, which led to the invasions and
occupations of Afghanistan and Iraq."

The statement makes no mention of the 1994 London Israeli Embassy car bomb
attack or the 1980 Iranian Embassy siege, both of which happened on British soil
and were connected to issues in the Middle East.

Foreign Secretary William Hague with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
this morning

The statement lists the conflicts the British military have supported since the
September 11 attacks on the USA.

It reads: "British troops are aiding the French in Mali. The British are
intervening in the war in Syria for their own ends, and want to lift the EU arms
embargo there in order to escalate the war and achieve regime change.

"The US and EU continues to back Israel despite its treatment of the
Palestinians, even sending the architect of the Iraq war, Tony Blair, as envoy
for peace in the Middle East.

"Any rational balance sheet of the last decade and more would demonstrate that
the war on terror has been a failure in its own terms.

"It has not prevented terrorism but caused it to spread."

Israeli president Shimon Peres yesterday vowed to stand by Britain as it
continues its 'War on Terror'.

He said: "I was deeply saddened and shocked to hear of the terrible attack
yesterday in London, it was an act of horrific brutality. In my name and on
behalf of the people of Israel, I wish to extend my sincerest condolences to the
family of the victim and to the people of Britain.

"Terrorism is a global threat and one the world must face together.

"I know that the people of Britain will stand strong in the face of this threat
and the State of Israel stands side by side with them."

The Israeli embassy did not wish to make specific comments about the Stop the
War Coalition's statement.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT

Troops' visibility may end after terror attack

BYLINE: Captain Doug Beattie MC

LENGTH: 176 words


THIS murder raises the prospect of terrorists targeting British troops as they
go about their private business.

When the victim was attacked he was in civilian clothing, but wearing a Help For
Heroes T-shirt.

If he was targeted as a soldier it could mean his attackers knew his identity
beforehand. Therefore the investigation will look into his use of social media,
particularly Facebook, where you can inadvertently give away information about
yourself and service personnel can unwittingly self-select themselves as
targets.

The attack could also lead to a change in the visible presence of the military
in mainland UK. The Government has tried hard to integrate the military into the
community, but Northern Ireland takes the opposite approach. Due to the
continuing terrorist threat there you never state that you are a soldier. You do
not wear your uniform in public.

But whatever the motivation, one thing is certain - this attack has exposed just
how vulnerable troops are when going about their business in areas where they
have every right to feel safe.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TERROR FANATICS BEHEAD SOLDIER;
BARBARIC ATTACK ON BRITISH STREET Victim wore help For heroes T-shirt By
almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you

BYLINE: John Twomey ; David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4,5

LENGTH: 930 words


TWO suspected terrorists were shot by police yesterday after they kidnapped a
soldier in broad daylight and hacked him to death in the street.

Police marksmen gunned down the killers who were seen "chopping and cutting" the
defenceless man with a long knife and a machete as he lay on the ground.

Chanting "Allahu akbar" - meaning "God is great" in Arabic - the men filmed
themselves committing the atrocity before dragging the lifeless victim, wearing
a Help For Heroes T-shirt, into the middle of the road near Woolwich Barracks,
in south-east London.

In terrifying scenes, a horrified onlooker filmed one of the attackers calmly
walking away from the soldier's corpse and launching into a chilling rant.

His hands soaked in blood and carrying a blood-covered cleaver and knife he
warned: "We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you. Your people
will never be safe.

"We must fight them as they fight us. An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth."

The attackers were taken to separate London hospitals, one by air ambulance. One
was last night said to be in a serious condition.

Muslim leaders were quick to condemn the attack saying everyone in Britain would
be sickened by the cold-blooded murder.

Condemn

A spokesman for the Muslim Council of Britain said: "This is a truly barbaric
act that has no basis in Islam and we condemn this unreservedly. "Our thoughts
are with the victim and his family. We understand the victim is a serving member
of the Armed Forces. Muslims have long served in this country's Armed Forces,
proudly and with honour.

This attack on a member of the Armed Forces is dishonourable, and no cause
justifies this murder." There were unconfirmed reports last night that the
"crazed" attackers had beheaded the young soldier.

Witness James Heneghan said: "They were hacking at this poor guy, literally.
They were hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him. "These two guys were
crazed.

They were just animals. They dragged him from the pavement and dumped his body
in the middle of the road and left it there."

Another witness choked back tears as he said: "They were just animals. They
treated him like a piece of meat." Another commented: "He was dead within
seconds."

As fears of further attacks on servicemen grew last night, Home Secretary
Theresa May chaired a meeting of the Government's emergency Cobra committee.

Prime Minister David Cameron, who returned to London from Paris last night,
described the murder as "truly shocking".

In a joint address with French President Francois Hollande, Mr Cameron said:
"People across Britain, people in every community, I believe, will condemn this
attack.

"We will not be cowed, we will never buckle. Terrorists will never defeat our
values. We will always win. It is the most appalling crime. There are strong
indications that it is a terrorist incident."

Terror experts said that the murder is a "departure" from previous attacks and
represents a "new round of terror threats in this country".

John O'Connor, the former Commander of the Flying Squad, warned that there is no
way of knowing if this is "a one-off incident".

Eye-witnesses revealed how, blood-spattered from the attack, the pair chanted
religious slogans and strutted around triumphantly, even inviting shocked
passengers on a stranded bus to film them.

Witnesses described how some "brave women" went to the soldier to see if they
could help him or to shield him from further attack as the killers casually
chatted to stunned passers-by.

The killers, also armed with a revolver, are believed to have abducted the
soldier at gunpoint close to the huge Army barracks at Woolwich around 2.20pm
yesterday. They were driving him away in a blue Vauxhall car when they crashed
into a lamppost.

The soldier was dragged from the wrecked vehicle and murdered in cold-blood a
short distance from a primary school.

Armed with a knife and hands stained with blood, one of the attackers was filmed
as he strolled near the murder scene.

In a London accent, he said: "I apologise that women have had to witness this
today, but in our land our women have to see the same. You people will never be
safe.

"Remove your government they don't care about you. You think David Cameron is
going to get caught in the street when we start busting our guns?

"You think politicians are going to die? No it's going to be the average guy,
like you, and your children. So get rid of them. Tell them to bring our troops
back so you can all live in peace."

The ranting terrorist was "preaching" in Woolwich town centre at the weekend,
said one witness. Pedestrians and drivers who had watched the killing then
witnessed the grotesque posturing of the terrorists for 20 minutes before armed
police arrived in Artillery Place.

One of the attackers was said to have charged at the marksmen brandishing the
revolver and a long, bladed weapon and was shot by a woman police officer. The
other man was also gunned down. Witnesses said police fired at least six shots.

Both men are black and believed to be in their 20s.

Ritual

The Independent Police Complaints Commission launched an investigation into the
shooting of the two men and information from officials sources was severely
curtailed.

But Nick Raynsford, MP for Greenwich and Woolwich, said he had been told the
murder victim was a serving soldier.

Terror experts said the kidnapping in Britain of a serving soldier, filming his
ritual beheading and posting it on the internet has long been an "aspiration" of
Britishbased Al Qaeda-inspired jihadists.

lAdditional reporting by John Ingham, Cyril Dixon, Anil Dawar

HE NEVER HAD A CHANCE: PAGES 6&7

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police and passers-by surround the victim in the road yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

PM chairs Cobra emergency response committee after London terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; US Major Events; Conflict & Terrorism

LENGTH: 158 words


David Cameron chairs a Cobra emergency response committee after the first
terrorist killing on the British mainland since the 7/7 suicide bombings in
2005. A man, said to be a member of the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers, was killed
in an attack in Woolwich on Wednesday by two men reportedly using a cleaver and
a gun. The assailants, said to have been shouting Islamist slogans, made no
attempt to escape and were eventually arrested at the scene. Mr Cameron has cut
short a meeting with European leaders in France to coordinate the meeting with
Met Police Commissioner Bernard Hogan-Howe, MI5 director general Andrew Parker,
Home Sec Theresa May, Defence Sec Philip Hammond and Mayor of London Boris
Johnson. Security has been increased at barracks across London. The two men are
said to be under questioning in hospital after interventions by armed police

Event Start Date: 2013-05-23

Event End Date: 2013-05-23

Event URL: http://www.number10.gov.uk/

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2013 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Front: 'You people will never be safe': British soldier dead in suspected terror
attack near London barracks: Knife attack 'an eye for an eye' says suspect in
camera footage: Killing in street is 'absolutely sickening' says prime minister

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd, Shiv Malik and Ben Quinn

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words


A man suspected of staging a terrorist attack that left a British soldier dead
near a military barracks in London, was caught on camera clutching a meat
cleaver and knife in hands apparently covered in the blood of his victim, as he
justified the violence as part of a jihadist-inspired fight against the west.

The incident happened in broad daylight, 400 metres from the perimeter of the
Royal Artillery barracks, in Woolwich, south-east London, sparking a terrorist
alert that saw the government crisis committee Cobra convene in emergency
session. Hours later, David Cameron, who was in Paris and was due to return last
night, described what had occurred as "an absolutely sickening attack".

Witnesses said a man was hacked at by two assailants with weapons including a
machete, carrying strong echoes of attacks abroad, at about 2.20pm. It is
understood that the victim was a soldier, although neither his identity nor
profession was confirmed last night. It is believed the person died after
suffering knife injuries, possibly around the head.

The two men remained on the scene, until armed police arrived up to 20 minutes
later. They were shot and apprehended by armed officers and taken to two
separate hospitals where they were being treated for their injuries under armed
guard in the aftermath of the first al-Qaida inspired attack to claim a life on
British soil since the 7 July bombings in London in 2005.

As counter-terrorism officials raced to work out if the incident was a random,
macabre event or the start of a trend, astonishing footage emerged which
explained why the government was so quick to treat it as a terrorist attack.

In mobile phone video footage first broadcast by ITV News, one of the suspects
was seen brandishing a cleaver and a knife. With the body of the victim lying
yards away, the man said: "We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop
fighting you. The only reason we have done this is because Muslims are dying
every day. This British soldier is an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth."

Speaking in a British accent, the man said: "We must fight them. I apologise
that women had to witness this today. But in our land, our women have to see the
same. You people will never be safe. Remove your government, they don't care
about you.

"You think David Cameron is going to get caught in the street when we start
bussin' our guns? You think politicians are going to die? No it's going to be
the average guy, like you, and your children. So get rid of them. Tell them to
bring our troops back so you can all live in peace." In the footage, the man
then walks away and talks to another suspected attacker, pictures of whom were
also circulating.

The rhetoric was reminiscent of that used in al-Qaida-influenced propaganda, in
particular the reference to "our land" - phraseology used by violent jihadists
to describe Muslim territory being despoiled by western soldiers. In a
statement, Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, said the
counter terrorism command was leading the investigation after two men were
arrested.

Reuters reported last night that British officials were investigating a possible
Nigerian link in the attack.

Witnesses at the scene spoke of attempts made by some passersby to stop the
attackers. One of the assailants reportedly danced near the body and then
approached bus passengers, asking people to take his photograph.

There were unconfirmed reports that the attackers may have had a gun and raised
it, possibly even fired it as armed police arrived. Julia Wilders, a witness,
said: "I walked back up there and the tall black bloke had changed the gun to
the other guy and he had two meat cleavers in his hand.

"And the response police turned up and he's ran towards them with meat cleavers
before I could even get out of the car so they shot him. And then the other one
lifts the gun up and they shot him as well." One witness, identified as James
Heneghan, said he and his partner saw two black men attack a young man aged
around 20 in a Help for Heroes T-shirt with kitchen knives like he was "a piece
of meat".

The barracks near to where the attack happened is home to the Princess of
Wales's regiment and the King's Troop, which is a ceremonial unit that relocated
to Woolwich last year. One source suggested the victim had been returning to the
barracks after attending an army recruitment event in central London.

Cameron, in Paris for talks with the French president, Francois Hollande,
described the killing as "truly shocking" and said he had asked the home
secretary, Theresa May, to chair a meeting of Cobra, the government's emergency
committee. He said Britain had faced terror attacks before and added: "We will
never buckle in the face of it."

The prime minister will chair another Cobra meeting this morning.

May said she had been briefed by the director general of MI5, Andrew Parker, on
the "sickening and barbaric" incident. The terrorism threat level remains at
substantial, meaning an attack is a strong possibility.

Yesterday's incident was a new style of terrorist attack in Britain, and
reminiscent of a past and disrupted plot by violent jihadists in Birmingham in
2007 to kidnap and behead a British Muslim soldier.

David Dixon, headteacher of nearby Musgrave school, said he heard gunshots and
locked the school down: "I saw the body lying in the road. We locked the gates,
we locked everything down to make sure the children were safe inside . . .we
kept them safe."

Muslim community leaders and law enforcement sources said they were alert to the
danger of a violent backlash following the attack, a fear heightened by
Woolwich's past history of racial tensions. The Woolwich and Greenwich MP, Nick
Raynsford, said: "Obviously at a time when there are rumours circulating there
must be cause for concern." Members of the extremist English Defence League
clashed with police in the area late last night.

It was Raynsford who first said that a member of the armed forces was most
likely to be the victim. He said: "We think a serving soldier was the victim. We
don't know the circumstances surrounding the incident. We do know a number of
weapons have been seized. They include a gun, various knives and a machete,
apparently."

The Muslim Council of Britain said: "This is a truly barbaric act that has no
basis in Islam and we condemn this unreservedly."

Commander Simon Letchford, from Woolwich police, said: "At approx 1420 we were
called to reports of an assault in John Wilson Street, Woolwich where one man
was being assaulted by two other men. A number of weapons were reportedly being
used in the attack, and this included reports of a firearm.

"Officers, including local Greenwich officers, arrived at the scene and shortly
after firearms officers arrived on the scene. On their arrival at the scene they
found a man, who was later pronounced dead.

"Two men, who we believe from early reports to have been carrying weapons, were
shot by police.

"They were taken to separate London hospitals, they are receiving treatment for
their injuries."

The Independent Police Complaints Commission is investigating the shooting by
police, which is standard in cases where officers open fire.

Captions:

His hands bloodied and clutching a meat cleaver and knife, the suspected
terrorist delivers his message of justification and threat to a passer-by's
mobile phone camera Photograph: ITV News

Photographs taken by passers-by: top, one of the suspects talking to witness
Ingrid Loyau-Kennett; left, a second suspect with bloodied hands; right,
witnesses gather round the victim Photographs: Pixel8000; ITV; Rex

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Woolwich killing: 'We saw the meat cleaver. They were hacking at this poor guy':
After the horrific terror attack which left one man dead the suspects stood in
the busy street, asked passers-by to take pictures, and stayed until the police
arrived

BYLINE: Sandra Laville, Shiv Malik and Ben Quinn

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1285 words


A meat cleaver is clasped in his blood- smeared left hand; the other - also
stained red with human blood - waves manically as he shouts at the camera,
ranting his justification for the atrocity on the streets of south-east London.

At about the same time, in the nearby Musgrave primary school, the headteacher
David Dixon ordered a lockdown after seeing the body of a man - believed to be a
young soldier - lying on John Wilson street.

If there was any doubt why this young man, who witnesses said was aged in his
early 20s and wearing a Help for Heroes T-shirt, had lost his life in such a
brutal fashion, that was soon quashed. Shouting the justification of
al-Qaida-inspired jihadists across the world, the tall black man, dressed in the
dark clothing and beanie hat of urban south London, spat his words to an
eyewitness filming on his mobile phone.

"We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you. The only reasons we
have done this is because Muslims are dying every day. This British soldier is
an eye for an eye, a tooth for tooth.

"We must fight them. I apologise that women had to witness this today, but in
our land our women have to see the same. You people will never be safe. Remove
your government. They don't care about you."

In a few minutes on a cloudy May afternoon, terror had struck again in the UK in
a style that counter-terrorist officials have long feared; brutally, out of
nowhere and with chilling and horrific effect.

The lives of ordinary members of public going about their daily business were
changed for ever as they walked, drove or sat on buses straight into a scene of
horror the like of which has never been witnessed on the streets of the capital.

One eyewitness named only as James saw the whole thing unfold as he drove his
girlfriend to work. His voice choking, he had to break off repeatedly as he
described on LBC what happened. "We were coming round the corner into John
Wilson Street. Slightly to the left, about five feet away, there was a Vauxhall,
crashed into a sign post. To the left of the car there was two guys with the
victim on the floor.

"We thought they were helping him. But next thing, my partner let out an
almighty scream. We then saw clearly the two guys with the meat cleaver and
knives. They weren't little knives - they were both butcher's-type knives. They
were hacking this poor guy, literally. We saw it all. They were hacking him - we
thought they were trying to remove his organs. They were digging him, cutting
him. We jumped out of the car and shouted.

"One of the black guys got in a car, got out a black bag and pulled a handgun
out and shouted: 'Get in the car.' He was waving this gun around."

As James moved his car up the road and called the police, other people gathered
on the main street, some shouting for the killers to stop. Women - a handful of
incredibly brave women - were seen standing over the body of the now dead young
man, shielding him, covering him, making attempts - sadly far too late - to
protect him.

"While I was on the phone to the police they were still hacking away at him,"
said James. "They were crazed, they were animals. They dragged the body into the
middle of the street and left him there."

For what witnesses said was between 15 and 20 minutes - the timing has not been
confirmed by the police - the men waited for the armed response teams they knew
were coming. Unarmed officers were behind barriers, waiting too.

Joe Tallant, 20, a local man who said he witnessed the attack, said that a
friend's mother comforted the victim, who may have already been dead at that
stage. He reported one of the attackers as saying: "No man is coming near this
body."

There was little doubt that the attackers wanted witnesses for their macabre
act. "They were asking people to take pictures of them. It was like they wanted
to be famous or something, but in a stupid way.

"In the time that it took for the police to come, they could have got away, but
they just waited. When the cops came, the attackers just walked towards them.
They plodded. A lady jumped out and shot them."

Julia Wilders, 51 said that she saw that a car had crashed into a lamppost when
she went to investigate. "My husband said there were two people trying to
resuscitate someone. We parked and walked back to have a look and all of a
sudden a tall black bloke came up with a gun. My husband said, 'Get back, get
back' and we called the police."

She said that one man was dressed all in black with a black cap while the other
was dressed in a green jumper. "They looked like they were on drugs," she added.

Her husband, Graham, 50, called the police to alert them to what they believed
was an accident. "After we called the police, I went over to the school to let
the school know so the kids wouldn't come out," she said.

As onlookers gathered, one of the men - who were reportedly dancing over the
body - rushed up to passengers on a bus. "He was asking people to take his
photograph on the bus," said James. "He was getting people to take his picture.
He was proud of what he had done. Then he was walking up and down with the gun.
They were both waiting for something. They were waiting for the armed police to
arrive."

As the firearms unit drove in, James and other eyewitnesses said the men charged
them. There were unconfirmed reports that one of the attackers opened fire with
his handgun, and then four to six shots rang out from armed police, and the men
were felled by a female police marksman.

Graham Wilders said: "All I heard was four shots when the Trojan people turned
up. These men actually went for the police with the machetes, knife and handgun.

"I don't think they cared. I don't think they really cared because they went for
the police with a handgun."

Dixon, the headteacher at Musgrave, heard the shots ring out as he ran back to
his school, and ordered the lockdown. Inside children were playing in the
playground. Many had just returned from lunch and were in their last classes
before leaving.

"There were lots of police and emergency vehicles and I saw the body lying in
the road. We locked the gates, we locked everything down to make sure the
children were safe inside. The police helicopter landed in the playground and we
helped to direct them where to go.

"The children were asking questions. There was a helicopter flying around - they
wanted to know what was going on. But everything was calm. We were able to let
the children go home; we kept them safe."

On John Wilson Street, the blood pooled around the body of the victim as
paramedics attended him. "I asked the police what they were doing and the police
said they had to try, but it was too late," said James.

Inside the nearby Royal Artillery Barracks, Woolwich officers were checking
which personnel were present as reports that the victim of the attack was a
soldier spread across social media forums, with videos and photographs of the
victim lying prone on the street posted on Twitter and Facebook.

One eyewitness posting on Twitter wrote: "Oh my God!!! The way the Feds took
them out!!! It was a female police officer she come out the whip and just
started busssin shots . . . right next to a primary school."

As the government, the security services and the police switched into full
counter-terror emergency mode, the people of Woolwich stood around, stunned.
They had witnessed carnage and could not take it in. "My girlfriend is
hysterical," said James, "just hysterical. I'm really worried about her."

Commander Simon Letchford of the Metropolitan police appealed for calm last
night. "I can understand that this incident will cause community concerns. There
will continue to be an increased police presence in this area, and the
surrounding areas this evening."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Soldier is hacked to death in suspected terror attack

BYLINE: Martin williams

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 836 words


A MAN believed to be a serving soldier has been killed on a London street in a
frenzied machete attack by two suspected terrorists who shouted  Allahu Akbar
and said they were avenging the deaths of Muslims.

The victim, who is believed to have been based at the Royal Artillery Barracks
just 300 to 400 yards from the attack in Woolwich, was left to die after being
butchered in a road when he was allegedly confronted by the men when his car
crashed into a signpost.

His two assailants, who filmed the attack, were shot by armed police  who
arrived 20 minutes later after passers-by had risked their lives to try to help
the victim.

If confirmed as a terrorist attack, it would be the first in the UK since the
Glasgow Airport incident of 2007, when two men drove a Jeep into the main
terminal before it exploded.

Scotland Yard s top officer last night confirmed two men had been arrested

The UK Government s emergency committee, Cobra, met and heightened security was
put in place around Army barracks in London. Personnel at the Woolwich barracks
were locked down. Home Secretary Theresa May said it was  an attack on everyone
in the United Kingdom .

Prime Minister David Cameron, who will chair another meeting today in Downing
Street, said it was  absolutely sickening  and pledged Britain will  never
buckle  in the fight against extremists.

TV footage showed one of the men thought to be involved, moments after the
attack with blood-stained hands and using jihadist-style rhetoric to justify the
violence.

Brandishing a bloodied meat cleaver and knife, yards from the body, the man,
speaking clearly in English with a London accent said:  We swear by almighty
Allah we will never stop  fighting you. The only reason we have done this is
because Muslims are dying every day.

We must fight them as they fight us. An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.

He later added:  I apologise that women had to witness this today. But  in our
land our women have to see  the same.

He also urged the Government to be overthrown, adding:  You people will never be
safe. Remove your Government. They don t care about you.

Tell them to bring our troops back so you can all live in peace.

The public were praised after a number of people got out of their cars and
shouted at the armed men to stop during the attack on the man, who was wearing a
T-shirt bearing the name of the forces charity, Help for Heroes.

A group of women shielded the dead man s body from further attack, despite the
men standing over them with their weapons.

At a Paris press conference with French President Francois Hollande, Mr Cameron
said:  Tonight, our thoughts should be with the victim, with their family, with
their friends.

It is the most appalling crime. We are obviously seeking, and the police are
urgently seeking, the full facts about this case, but there are strong
indications that it is a terrorist incident.

He added:  We look at every aspect of security. We look at every aspect of what
you can learn from any of these incidents.

But you also have to remember that in a free country like ours the best way to
defeat terrorism is to make sure you continue to go about your life, to live
your life and to show terrorists can never win. That s important.

It is believed the soldier had been returning to the barracks, home to  the
Princess of Wales regiment and  the ceremonial King s Troop, after a day out.

The phrase used by the suspects,  Allahu Akbar  means  God is the greatest .

Witnesses described how one of the suspects rushed at the police, brandishing
weapons, before being shot.

It emerged that armed officers took 20 minutes to arrive, leaving the two men to
linger at the scene and allegedly boast about what they had done.

It was also suggested they had filmed themselves. One of the men was heard to
shout:  It was God s will.

One eye-witness, James, said:  These two guys were crazy. They just were not
there. They were just animals. They dragged the poor guy   he was obviously
dead, there was no way a human could take what they did to him.

They dragged him from the pavement and dumped his body in the middle of  the
road and left his  body there.

The Muslim Council of Britain said:  This is a truly barbaric act that has no
basis in Islam and we condemn this unreservedly. This action will no doubt
heighten tensions on the streets of the United Kingdom.

We call on all our communities, Muslim and non-Muslim, to come together in
solidarity to ensure the forces of hatred do not prevail.

Former Labour Home Secretary Lord Reid added:  If it is a terrorist action, if
it is proven to be, it is very difficult to counter this kind of attack.

Professor John Gearson, reader in terrorism studies and director of the Centre
for Defence Studies at King s College London, said:  There has previously been
speculation, plans and discussions by some groups about targeting the armed
services and that is worrying.

Buckingham Palace said the Queen had expressed concern about the attack and was
being kept informed of developments.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: terror ON STREETS: A man is pictured at the scene in London covered in
blood, holding a machete.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Ilkeston Advertiser

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Erewash MP condemns London terror attack as vile'

LENGTH: 164  words


Erewash MP Jessica Lee has branded the death of a soldier in London as a vile
attack'.

The suspected terror attack in Woolwich yesterday saw the man butchered with a
machete. A man with blood covered hand was then filmed by onlookers. Police
later shot and wounded two suspects.

Jessica Lee told the Advertiser: "I think everyone is just horrified that this
happened in broad daylight when people where going about their business. The
conduct of the suspects was graphic and vile.

"My thought go out to the family and friends of the victim."

She added that anyone with families in the armed forced should be extra
vigilant, and called the incident unsettling' and a vile attack', adding that it
would be a priority for the Government to find out what was at the root of it.

National reports state that a murder inquiry is being led by the Counter
Terrorism Command unit of the Metropolitan Police. Prime Minister David Cameron
said the UK would "never buckle" in the face of terror attacks.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NILA


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 4:00 PM GMT

Debate: Is it right to call the murder in Woolwich a 'terrorist attack'?

BYLINE: Independent Voices

SECTION: VOICES

LENGTH: 284 words


What's going on?

A barbaric act of violence horrified the nation yesterday afternoon as two men
attacked and murdered an off duty soldier in Woolwich, apparently attempting to
behead the victim before inviting passersby to film them.

One of the apparent attackers, recorded in footage broadcast by ITV still
holding a knife and cleaver, invoked British involvement in overseas wars as
justification: "We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you".

But is David Cameron right to call this a "terrorist" attack?

Case for: Fear

The motivation here was not personal, it was public. These two men wanted to
strike fear into British society, to strike a blow for whatever warped version
of religion it is they subscribe to. The confession one man gave to camera -
telling viewers "You will never be safe. Remove your government" - also conforms
precisely to MI5's definition of terrorism, "the use of force to influence the
government...or intimidate the public". Yes, there have been other vicious
butcheries on British streets; but none so avowedly political.

Case against: Lunatic

What's the difference between a terrorist and a lunatic? By calling this a
"terrorist" attack, not only do you carry forward the message the attackers set
out to convey - doing their work for them - you do so without applying
sufficient scepticism. Earlier this month Mohammed Saleem, 75, was murdered by a
white man in what police fear was a racist attack. Is the attacker a terrorist?
He may well subscribe to an ideology similarly warped, albeit in a different
direction, as the Woolwich attackers. Terrorism exists. But we need to be
careful how the word is used, at the risk of amplifying what is in fact sheer
sadism.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 2:28 PM GMT

Exclusive: Woolwich attack suspect was known to banned terror group and security
services;
Former leader of banned group confirmed that he had known the man who was seen
on video in the immediate aftermath of horrific killing

BYLINE: Cahal Milmo

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 776 words


One of the two men involved in the Woolwich terror attack was known to a banned
Islamist organisation and went by the name of Mujahid, The Independent has
learned.

It was also reported today that the alleged killers, who are under armed guard
in different London hospitals, were both known to security services.

Anjem Choudary, the former leader of the group, Al Muhajiroun, confirmed that he
had known the man who was seen on video in the immediate aftermath of
yesterday's horrific killing waving a cleaver with bloodied hands and making
political statements.

Mr Choudary said Mujahid, who he said had converted to Islam in 2003 and was a
British-born  Nigerian, had stopped attending meetings of Al Muhajiroun and its
successor organisations two years ago. The former solicitor said he had also
known "Mujahid" as Michael.

Sources today named one of the suspects as 28-year-old Michael Adebolajo.

Mr Choudary told The Independent: "I knew him as Mujahid. He attended our
meetings and my lectures. I wouldn't describe him as a member [of Al
Muhajiroun]. There were lots of people who came to our activities who weren't
necessarily members.

"He was a pleasant, quiet guy. He reverted to Islam in about 2003. He was  just
a completely normal guy. He was interested in Islam, in memorising the Koran. He
disappeared about two years ago. I don't know what influences he has been under
since then."

Founded in 1983 by Islamist Omar Bakri Muhammad, Al Muhajiroun became notorious
for attempting to justify the 9/11 attacks and fomenting Islamist rhetoric in
Britain.

Mr Choudary, who has long been a controversial figures in Britain's Islamist
circles, has been an outspoken critic of British military involvement in Iraq
and Afghanistan.

But he insisted that he had never preached that attacks on British troops or
security personnel in Britain were justified.

Mr Choudary said: "My position is clear. There is a covenant which says that in
return for Muslims being allowed to live peacefully and practice their faith in
Britain, then it is forbidden to attack the British authorities, soldiers, in
the UK.

"When people go abroad then the inhabitants of those countries have a right to
defend themselves. The biggest aggravating factor we have today is British
foreign policy."

He denied that Mujahid could have been radicalised by his teachings, adding that
more extremist material, including the sermons of Yemen-based cleric Anwar Al
Awlaki and the Al Qaeda-linked magazine Inspire, have been easily available via
the internet.

He said: "If you are saying that you are radicalised by saying that British
foreign policy is wrong then there are whole load of other organisations and
anti-war groups who have said the same.

"Mujahid left us two years ago. There is plenty of material out there that does
not observe the covenant we do that there can be no attacks in Europe. There is
Al Awlaki and Inspire. I do not know what sort of material Mujahid could have
seen."

Police said a property in Lincolnshire and another in Greenwich had been
searched in connection with the murder.

Sources told The Independent yesterday that the dead man was a member of the
Royal Regiment of Fusiliers, which is currently based overseas.

The soldier, who has not yet been named, was killed by two suspected Islamists
who attempted to behead and disembowel him as he left a barracks.

It is the first deadly attack since the 2005 London bombings.

One of the suspected killers, who addressed an onlooker who had a camera, said
the pair had carried out the attack "because David Cameron, [the] British
government sent troops in Arabic country".

Video footage of him speaking to camera was published by ITV News yesterday
evening.

In response to the attack security at the barracks has been increased and
according to Sky News members of the British armed forces have been warned not
to wear their uniforms in public until further notice.

Former chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee Baroness Neville-Jones said
the security services would today be exploring whether the attack was carried
out by a "lone wolf" or by someone with further connections, either at home or
abroad.

"Clearly, as in this case the perpetrators are still alive they are going to be
questioned. There is going to be a great deal of information available," she
said on the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

"There is a much bigger problem, potentially.

"Isolated attacks of the kind we have just seen, of this kind of attack, I'm
inclined to think is possibly more in the nature of a lone wolf, is particularly
hard to deal with because there are very few outward signs beforehand of the
nature the intelligence services can pick up."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 12:19 PM GMT

Murder of soldier in Woolwich was a 'betrayal of Islam' says Cameron as he
insists Britain will stand resolute against terror;
The Prime Minister said the attack 'sickens us all' and was a 'betrayal of
Islam'

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 355 words


David Cameron today condemned the Woolwich murder as a "betrayal of Islam" as he
insisted Britain would stand resolute against terror attacks.

He was speaking after chairing a meeting of Whitehall's Cobra emergency
committee of ministers, police chiefs and senior figures in the security
services.

Standing outside Downing Street, the Prime Minister said: "This was not just an
attack on Britain - and on our British way of life. It was also a betrayal of
Islam and of the Muslim communities who give so much to our country.

"There is nothing in Islam that justifies this truly dreadful act. We will
defeat violent extremism by standing together by backing our police and security
services and above all by challenging the poisonous narrative of extremism on
which this violence feeds."

Warning that the aim of terrorists was to divide, he praised Britons' natural
resilience and pointed to the example of the cub scout pack leader Ingrid
Loyau-Kennett, who confronted one of the men at the murder site.

Mr Cameron said: "When told by the attacker that he wanted to start a war in
London, she replied: 'You're going to lose. It's only you versus many.'  She
spoke for us all."

The Prime Minister was at pains to praise the work of the police and the
security services, saying nothing should be allowed to impede their murder
investigation.

Today's hour-long Cobra meeting focused on the importance of community cohesion
in the wake of the killing. A source said: "The strength and unity of response
from Muslim community leaders was recognised and commended by Ministers and
others around the table."

Police and the security services briefed the meeting on the investigation and
there was an update on extra measures to protect members of the armed forces.

The meeting was also attended by Theresa May, the Home Secretary, Philip
Hammond, the Defence Secretary, Eric Pickles, the Communities Secretary,
Baroness Warsi, the Faith and Communities Minister, Boris Johnson, the Mayor of
London, Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner and Cressida
Dick, the Met Assistant Commissioner, as well as senior officers form MI5 and
MI6.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 10:54 AM GMT

Woolwich attack: The EDL might have a sinister plan as a soldier is murdered in
suspected Islamic terrorist attack

BYLINE: Jamie Lewis

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 517 words


As the EDL lace up their heavy-set boots and head for the streets of Woolwich,
their leader, metaphorically carrying with him his long list of criminal
convictions, will be preparing his fascist propaganda.

Tommy Robinson and his followers (the phrase "in the land of the blind, the
one-eyed man is king," comes to mind) are intent on running Islam and its
teachings out of the country and are using criminal acts from Muslims as
evidence for their cause. Their next stop is set for Woolwich, following the
death of a man and the broadcast of an ITV video showing a bloodied man claiming
to be fighting for Allah.

The militant anti-Islamic today ordered the march toward Woolwich, exactly three
months after he was released from prison for possessing a fake passport
following the killing of an alleged British soldier in a suspected jihadist
attack - note the words 'suspected', the motives of the attack have not, as yet,
been confirmed

I'm sorry, Mr Robinson, but I think you'll find the problem isn't with Islam.
You see, the real issue here is with extremism and you pointing at every news
story involving a Muslim and shouting "SEE! I TOLD YOU," isn't going to cut it.

Islamic terrorist attacks account for fewer than 100 deaths in the UK - which,
of course, is too many. But, in recent years, we've seen the IRA apologise for
the death of 1,800 "non-combatants" alone, I can guarantee the knuckle-draggers
won't be chasing Irish men down the road on St Patrick's day.

Lest we forget that Anders Breivik, a Christian, killed 69 people - mostly
teenagers - on and around the island of Utøya, Norway and the many, many school
shootings by mostly white, non-Muslim people in the United States.

At no point in this piece do I intend to defend any murder or act of terrorism,
but we should certainly not tar an entire religion with the same brush as a
result of the sinister actions of a few.

The EDL are claiming that since the attack took place, their Facebook page has
had over 3,000 new 'likes' - do not be one of those people, you're only giving
credence to an organisation dedicated to the hatred of an entire sect of people.
The group would have you believe that each and every practicing Muslim will
behead you for hanging a St George's Cross from your roof - it's not true.

And, I'm sure, EDL-apologists around the country will claim I'm a journalist,
paid by the government to keep acts of violence by Muslims quiet. Were that
true, I'd have many more pairs of nicer trainers, I promise you.

At the time of writing this column, too few details exist to write a
well-rounded opinion piece on the Woolwich situation, but the furore the EDL is
creating on Twitter is unsettling. As we speak, the tweet from the fascist
group's official Twitter account, which calls its members to arms, has over 775
retweets, considerably more than my own which intended to warn the police of
possible violence (a measly 17).

So don't blindly follow the first man who gives you someone (or a group of
millions) to blame, for he himself is spinning you a yarn and recruiting for the
hopeful fruition of his sinister ideals.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 9:49 AM GMT

'Sickening, deluded and unforgivable': Horrific attack brings terror to London's
streets;
Police shoot two men after soldier is beheaded in busy Woolwich street. PM and
London Mayor lead chorus of outrage as Cobra committee meets

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta, Paul Peachey, Sanchez Manning, Nigel Morris

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1077 words


Terrorism returned to the streets of Britain yesterday when a soldier was
murdered by two suspected Islamists who attempted to behead and disembowel him
as he left a barracks, in the first deadly attack since the 2005 London
bombings.

One of the suspected killers, who addressed an onlooker who had a camera, said
the pair had carried out the attack "because David Cameron, [the] British
government sent troops in Arabic country".

As pedestrians stood close by the armed men, he went on: "We swear by almighty
Allah we will never stop fighting you," according to footage obtained by ITV
News.

The Independent understands the dead soldier - who was wearing a Help for Heroes
T-shirt - was a member of the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers, which is currently
based overseas. He was ambushed by the men as he left the base in Woolwich,
south-east London, who attacked him and then dragged his body into the middle of
the road to pose for photographs while standing over him waving a cleaver and a
gun, according to witnesses.

Senior Whitehall sources today confirmed to the BBC that the man who had been
killed was a member of the armed forces.

Mr Cameron was cutting short a meeting with European leaders to chair a meeting
of the emergency committee Cobra this morning as police and security services
investigate whether the two men - later shot and wounded by police - were
working alone or as part of a bigger group.

"It's the most appalling crime," he told reporters in Paris. "We are obviously
urgently seeking the full facts but there are strong indications that it's a
terrorist incident."

He said that they were looking at every aspect of security for troops across
Britain, but he added: "The best way to defeat terrorism is to make sure you
continue to live your life and make sure that terrorism never wins."

The London Mayor Boris Johnson added: "This afternoon's attack in Woolwich is a
sickening, deluded and unforgivable act of violence."

Only hours after the attack was carried out, video footage of one of the
suspected killers emerged. With his hands bloodied and carrying a cleaver, he is
seen telling the bystander with a camera: "I apologise that women had to witness
this today but in our lands our women have to see the same. You people will
never be safe. Remove your governments - they don't care about you."

The man, who spoke English without a foreign accent, then saunters back across
the road towards his victim lying in the street to join his apparent accomplice.
The two men made no attempt to escape and charged a police car carrying an armed
response team when it arrived at the scene about 15 minutes after the killing,
according to a witness.

"The black guy ran at them with a meat cleaver before it stopped and he was
right by the car when they shot him," said Julia Wilders, 51, who lives close
by. The second man, who had a gun, was also shot, she said.

The men were taken to separate hospitals by air ambulance and they were expected
to survive despite their injuries, according to police last night.

The men were believed to have waited outside the Woolwich barracks of the 2nd
Battalion, the Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment, which has deployed to
Afghanistan and Iraq, where one of its members, Sergeant Johnson Beharry, won
the VC.

Military sources said the soldier had left the barracks by car, but witnesses
indicated that he was rammed while walking along the road in an apparently
pre-arranged ambush, before being attacked while he was propped up against a
wall of a block of flats.

One witness, identified only as James, said he and his partner saw two black men
attack a young man aged about 20 with kitchen knives like he was "a piece of
meat".

"They were hacking at this poor guy, literally," he told LBC Radio, adding that
a group of brave women tried to shield the soldier from the two men.

"They were hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him. These two guys were
crazed. They were just animals. They dragged him from the pavement and dumped
his body in the middle of the road and left his body there."

Children returning from a school trip were kept locked inside nearby Mulgrave
Primary School while the police operation played out.

One local woman said she thought she saw one of the suspects preaching in
Woolwich town centre about a week ago. Her daughter, Rebecca France, 18, said
yesterday: "It was really political and angry. She said she thought it was
strange because he was different from the usual guys who preach in the name of
Jesus - he wasn't doing that."

The Muslim Council of Britain said the use of "Islamic slogans" indicated they
were motivated by their faith. A statement from the council said: "This is a
truly barbaric act that has no basis in Islam and we condemn this unreservedly.
Our thoughts are with the victim and his family. We understand the victim is a
serving member of the armed forces. Muslims have long served in this country's
armed forces, proudly and with honour.

"This attack on a member of the armed forces is dishonourable, and no cause
justifies this murder."

Police had set up a series of cordons around the scene last night with extra
police patrols in the area and helicopters crossing the skies overhead. The
Independent Police Complaints Commission said it sent 12 investigators to the
scene to investigate the police shooting after reports of at least six shots
being fired.

Shortly before 10pm last night the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Bernard
Hogan-Howe, confirmed the murder investigation was being led by Counter
Terrorism Command with two men arrested. He added: "It is hard to comprehend the
shocking and horrific scenes we have seen this afternoon on a busy street as
Londoners went about their day as normal."

Last night there were clashes between EDL supporters and police in Woolwich
after officers surrounded the local Islamic centre.

Islamists have threatened a number of times to behead a British soldier in
retaliation for involvement in wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. Six years ago a
group of British Pakistanis based in Birmingham were convicted of plotting such
an attack and their leader, Parviz Khan, received a life sentence.

Khan admitted planning to lure a soldier off the streets then film the
beheading.

He was described in court as having the "most violent and extreme Islamist
views" and his aim was to deter any Muslim from joining the British Army.

Video: Woolwich attack - man with bloodied hands and knife addresses camera

WARNING: Contains graphic images

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

First British terrorist attack since 7/7 bombings

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 464 words


The atrocity saw 52 people killed by four suicide bombers on London's transport
network.

Since then, there have been a number of other plots - the first coming just two
weeks after the Jul 7 attack.

Another group of four bombers had attempted to replicate the attack but their
plan failed. They were caught and each jailed for life.

The Woolwich incident mirrors a plot which saw a Birmingham man jailed for life
in 2008 for plotting to kidnap and kill a British Muslim soldier.

Parviz Khan admitted planning to lure the soldier off the streets with the
promise of drugs - then film his beheading.

He was described in court as having "the most violent and extreme Islamist
views", with the judge saying his aim was to deter any Muslim from joining the
British army.

The most recent planned attack aimed at killing large numbers of victims was in
May 2008. Muslim convert Nicky Reilly was planning to blow up dozens of diners
with a nail bomb in Exeter, but he accidentally detonated the device in the
restaurant's toilet. He received a life sentence.

According to M15, there have been 2,291 arrests under the Terrorism Act between
Sept 11, 2001, and Sept 30, 2012 and 312 people have been convicted of
terrorism-related offences.

As of the end of September last year, there were 107 people serving sentences in
UK prisons classified as terrorists.

Notable plots include:

*A 2006 plan to blow up aircraft being flown between the UK, America, and Canada
using liquid explosives which led to 12 people being jailed.

*A plot to attack UK and US targets with a "dirty bomb" and gas-filled
limousines that saw al Qaeda operative Dhiren Barot sentenced to 30 years in
2006, and seven other men jailed.

nPlans to target shopping centres and nightclubs with explosives that led to
five men being jailed for life in 2007.

*The attempted murder of MP Stephen Timms who was stabbed by Roshonara Choudry.
The student, who was said to have been inspired by extremist sermons she watched
online, was convicted in 2010.

*A plan to attack the London Stock Exchange, which saw nine members of a
terrorist network later receive terms of between five and 17 years in Feb 2012.

Three high-profile sentencing hearings took place last month alone. On Apr 18,
four men from Luton - Zahid Iqbal, Mohammed Sharfaz Ahmed, Umar Arshad and Syed
Farhan Hussain - were given long jail terms for their roles in plotting an al
Qaeda-inspired attack.

They had intended to carry out attacks in Luton using improvised explosive
devices and all admitted engaging in conduct in preparation for acts of
terrorism between Jan 2011 and Apr 2012.

British Islamic extremists Richard Dart, Imran Mahmood and Jahangir Alom were
jailed for more than 20 years in total on Apr 25 after admitting engaging in
conduct in preparation for acts of terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Woolwich terror attack victim was Manchester soldier

SECTION: EAST LANCASHIRE NEWS (EASTLANCASHIRE)

LENGTH: 273 words


The victim of the terrorist murder in Woolwich has been named as father-of-one
Lee Rigby.

Drummer Rigby, 25, from Crumpsall, Manchester, was from 2nd Battalion The Royal
Regiment of Fusiliers, attached to the Regimental Recruiting Team in London.

Sergeant Barry Ward said he was "a loving father" to his two-year-old son Jack,
and had "a very bubbly character".

A shocked and tearful neighbour outside the family home, a council house on the
Langley estate in Middleton, Greater Manchester, said: "He had always wanted to
be in the Army since he was knee-high." The woman, who did not want to be named,
added: "He was a lovely lad, he lived around here for years and went to
Middleton Tech."

A steady stream of relatives and friends visited the house throughout the day to
support the family.

Police and PCSOs also stood guard outside the house and patrolled the street.

Drummer Rigby, who joined the Army in 2006, had served in Helmand province,
Afghanistan, where he was a member of the Fire Support Group in Patrol Base
Woqab.

A lifelong Manchester United fan, he had also stood outside the Royal Palaces as
part of his battalion's public duties commitment.

Lieutenant Colonel Jim Taylor, Commanding Officer Second Fusiliers, said Drummer
Rigby was a "real character".

He said: "Larger than life, he was at the heart of our Corps of Drums. An
experienced and talented side drummer and machine gunner, he was a true warrior
and served with distinction in Afghanistan, Germany and Cyprus. His ability,
talent and personality made him a natural choice to work in the recruiting
group. He will be sorely missed by everyone in the Second Fusiliers."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

News round-up 23/5: Terror attack in Woolwich

LENGTH: 635  words


IMF urges infrastructure spending | Police commissioners spend more than
authorities they replaced

Woolwich attack

All of today's papers carry the news of a soldier who was killed in a suspected
terror attack outside the Royal Artillery barracks in Woolwich, south east
London yesterday afternoon. Home secretary Theresa May chaired a meeting with
government crisis committee Cobra yesterday evening after being briefed by the
MI5 and Scotland Yard. Security has been increased for all London barracks and
two men have been arrested after mosques were attacked in Kent and Essex, the
Independent reports.

Economy

The International Monetary Fund has urged chancellor George Osborne to increase
infrastructure spending in its annual review but "toned down" its previous
critiques of the chancellor's economic policy, reports the Financial Times.
However, the IMF expressed scepticism about the government's "Help to Buy"
strategy, which, it argued, could result in higher house prices.

Meanwhile, research suggests England's 10 national parks offer not only beauty
but also contribute £6bn a year to the UK economy, as much as the aerospace
industry, the Financial Times reports.

Taxation

The Conservative party has "inexplicably failed" to increase taxation on high
earners, deputy prime minister Nick Clegg said yesterday. According to the Daily
Telegraph, Mr Clegg said the party could no longer be relied upon to "deliver
fairness" and said his own party would most probably put a mansion tax in their
2015 election manifesto.

Police commissioners

The Daily Telegraph reports that almost half of the newly-elected police and
crime commissioners are spending more than the organisations they replaced. A
report by the Commons home affairs select committee also warned of cronyism and
"maverick decision-making".

The committee also called for a national register of the interests of police and
crime commissioners to be established, the Times (£) reports. Committee chair
Keith Vaz said the public could not judge whether their commissioner was
upholding the standards of their office unless information was published that
allowed comparisons with the interests of their counterparts elsewhere.

Shameful trial

The Times reports upon "the abuse trial that shamed the British legal system"
after legal restrictions preventing a 2011 trial at Stafford Crown Court from
being reported were lifted. One victim who was "passed around and used as meat"
from the age of 13, was cross-examined for 12 days, with barristers trading
angry exchanges, jurors close to revolt and the judge threatening to quit.

Welfare reform

The Guardian reports that a "landmark" court ruling has found that a fitness-for
work test disadvantages people with mental health conditions. It says a tribunal
found that the test, which is used to determine whether hundreds of thousands of
people are eligible to claim sickness benefit, does not contain "reasonable
adjustments" for people with mental health problems. The Department for Work and
Pensions intends to appeal the ruling.

Health

Doctors' leaders are on a "collision course" with health secretary Jeremy Hunt,
the Guardian reports. Mr Hunt is due to make a speech attacking "inaccessible"
GPs for leaving the frail and elderly with no alternative but to fill hospital
A&E waiting rooms. Mr Hunt will also call for an "Ofsted-style" rating system
for hospitals, the paper says.

Unions

The prospect of a leftwing "super-union" with 1.8m members moved closer as
members of the Public and Commercial Services union voted to allow merger talks
if approached by Unite, the Financial Times reports.

We hope you enjoyed the above article. To get unlimited access to all articles
on LGCplus.com you will need to have a paid subscription. Subscribe now to save
yourself £100 off the standard subscription rate.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronicle


                            Copyright 2013 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 8:00 PM GMT

Man and woman, both 29, arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to murder following
Woolwich terror attack

BYLINE: MARK DUELL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1615 words



     ·    It takes total number of arrests over yesterday's London killing to
          four
     ·    Two men who were shot by police, aged 22, and 28, remain in hospital
     ·    Six residential addresses in London and Lincolnshire searched today


A man and a woman, both 29, were today arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to
murder in relation to the Woolwich terror murder of Drummer Lee Rigby, Scotland
Yard said.

A total of four people including the two men shot by police have now been
arrested in connection with the killing - and the latest two arrested were being
questioned at a south London police station.

The two men who were shot, aged 22 and 28, have been arrested on suspicion of
murder and remain in hospital in a stable condition with non life-threatening
injuries.

Drummer Rigby was yesterday hacked to death by two attackers in Woolwich,
south-east London.

Scotland Yard said six residential addresses were searched today as part of the
investigation - three in south London, one in east London, one in north London
and one in Lincolnshire.

'This is a large, complex and fast-moving investigation which continues to
develop,' a spokesman said. 'Many lines of inquiry are being followed by
detectives and the investigation is progressing well.'

Officers recovered various items from the scene and were appealing for witnesses
to send in footage and photographs of the incident. A post mortem was taking
place on Drummer Rigby's body today.

Tonight U.S. President Barack Obama issued a statement to say: 'I condemn in the
strongest terms the appalling attack against a British service member in
Woolwich on May 22.

'The United States stands resolute with the United Kingdom, our ally and friend,
against violent extremism and terror.

'There can be absolutely no justification for such acts, and our thoughts and
prayers are with the family of the victim, the police and security services
responding to this horrific act and the communities they serve, and the British
people.'

Earlier tributes were paid to Drummer Rigby, 25, from Crumpsall, Manchester who
had a two-year-old son. He was from 2nd Battalion The Royal Regiment of
Fusiliers, and was attached to the Regimental Recruiting Team in London.

Sergeant Barry Ward said he was 'a loving father' to his two-year-old son Jack,
and had 'a very bubbly character'.

A shocked and tearful neighbour outside the family home in Middleton, Greater
Manchester, who did not want to be named, said: 'He had always wanted to be in
the army since he was knee high.'

A steady stream of relatives and friends visited the house throughout the day to
support the family. Police and PCSOs also stood guard outside the house and
patrolled the street.

'The United States stands resolute with the United Kingdom, our ally and friend,
against violent extremism and terror'

U.S. President Barack Obama

Drummer Rigby, who joined the Army in 2006, had served in Helmand province,
Afghanistan, where he was a member of the Fire Support Group in Patrol Base
Woqab.

A life-long Manchester United fan, he had also stood outside the Royal Palaces
as part of his battalion's public duties commitment.

The Rt Rev Mark Davies, The Bishop of Middleton, said: 'The nation has been
shocked by Lee's death. But the greatest burden is carried by those he knew and
loved. Our prayers and sympathies are with his family, friends and those he
served with.'

Drummer Rigby was brutally murdered in the street in Woolwich, south east
London, yesterday by two attackers who were British and of Nigerian descent.

The pair, who were shot by police, were known to security services, and
apparently shouted 'Allah Akhbar' as they struck. It is believed that the
serving soldier was run over and then hacked to death, yards from a primary
school.

Alfie Swain, who said he had met Drummer Rigby, told BBC News: 'I can't explain
it, how much it hurts. It's just disappointing.

'I'd met him in and out of the Army base itself. Hearing that he's gone is just
destroying. He was a nice man. He was caring, loving. To hear that he's gone is
just disappointing.

'The nation has been shocked by Lee's death. But the greatest burden is carried
by those he knew and loved'

Rt Rev Mark Davies, Bishop of Middleton

'I'm just terribly, terribly upset. I just want to burst into tears right now.'

Eyewitnesses said that one of the attackers charged towards officers clutching
bloodied weapons including a meat cleaver, while the other brandished a gun.

One chilling video clip showed a man with heavily blood-stained hands claiming
the killing was committed in the name of Allah and ranting about the Government.

He said: 'We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you.' The
attacker went on: 'We must fight them as they fight us. An eye for an eye, a
tooth for a tooth.'

Today officers searched the former home of a man called Michael Adebolajo in
Saxilby, Lincolnshire, as well as other addresses in London.

This afternoon two police vans were stationed outside a ground-floor flat in
east Greenwich, south-east London, with about a dozen officers positioned
outside. The front door of the flat in Eastney Street, had been shattered.

One neighbour said four people had been led away from the flat at 6am, and that
two children, aged three and seven, were also taken away.

Another neighbour Nicola James, 45, said she believed one of the men arrested
over the Woolwich incident was in a relationship with one of the two women who
live at the Greenwich flat.

Ms James said she had not seen the other suspect around the housing estate, but
added: 'He was always out in Woolwich, giving out radical leaflets.'

Following a meeting of the Cobra emergency response committee today, Prime
Minister David Cameron said the attack had 'sickened' the country.

He said: 'This country will be absolutely resolute in its stand against violent
extremism and terror. We will never give in to terror or terrorism in any of its
forms.'

Anjem Choudary, former leader of banned Islamic group Al Muhajiroun, said he
knew one of the attackers but had not seen him for about two years.

He claimed to recognise the man who was filmed wielding a bloodied meat cleaver
while saying: 'We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you.'

'This country will be absolutely resolute in its stand against violent extremism
and terror. We will never give in to terror or terrorism in any of its forms'

Prime Minister David Cameron

A Crown Prosecution Service spokesman said prosecutors have given the police
investigating team initial advice about the case.

He said: 'As is standard practice, we have provided some initial investigative
advice to the police. We will continue to do so as required.'

Police watchdog the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) said it is
not pursuing any criminal or misconduct offences in relation to the officers who
used their weapons.

IPCC investigators have viewed CCTV of what happened, and said two officers
fired guns and one discharged a Taser. They have given initial accounts of what
happened.

IPCC commissioner Derrick Campbell said: 'Our investigation is as a result of
the tragic events yesterday and I would like to express my sincere sympathies to
the family of Lee Rigby at this terrible time.

'We have viewed CCTV footage of the police shooting. At this stage we are not
pursuing any criminal or misconduct offences. Officers have provided initial
statements and we will be obtaining additional accounts.

'The IPCC is independently verifying information regarding the circumstances of
this incident and we can promise the Woolwich community, and wider public, that
our investigation will be thorough.'


     ·    Anyone who may have witnessed the incident was asked to contact police
          on 0800 789321. Anyone who filmed or took photos as events unfolded in
          John Wilson Street was also asked to send them to police in confidence
          via woolwich@metincident.co.uk


'WE PRAY FOR HIS SOUL': MOURNERS PAY RESPECTS TO DRUMMER RIGBY

Mourners gathered tonight to pay their respects to the soldier killed in the
brutal terrorist attack.

Around a dozen sat in silence in St Mary Magdalene Parish Church, Woolwich,
offering their prayers for Drummer Lee Rigby, 25, of Middleton, Greater
Manchester.

The Rt Revd Christopher Chessun, Bishop of Southwark, said he had come to show
'solidarity' with members of all faiths shocked by the 'horrifying' murder.

The Bishop said: 'The event has of course traumatised many people locally, and
indeed across the whole nation, because of the horrifying nature of this event.

'The community has rallied together, and shown that sense of solidarity, of
people of good will uniting together.

He went on: 'We are simply encouraging people to come and spend some time in
silent, concentrated, focused prayer.

'I wanted to come to pay my own respects and secondly to show solidarity with
this community which has suffered greatly.'

The mourners sat in silence as readings were given and hymns were played, just
streets away from where Drummer Lee Rigby was murdered.

A sign on the door read: 'People of all faiths are welcome. We will be praying
for those affected by the sad incident in Woolwich yesterday.'

Some brought flowers into the quiet service. The rector of Woolwich, Rev Jesse
van der Valk, paid tribute to the women who 'were brave enough to stand up' to
the attackers.

He told the congregation: 'It's one of the incredible things that there were
women brave enough to stand up to the people who carried out this killing and
actually kneel with the man and to say some prayers with him.'

After giving a reading from the Book of Psalms, he added: 'We pray for the soul
of the youngster, as we have come here to show our unity and concern for the
community.'

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 7:01 PM GMT

BREAKING NEWS: Man and woman, both 29, arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to
murder following Woolwich terror attack

BYLINE: MARK DUELL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 348 words



     ·    It takes total number of arrests over yesterday's London killing to
          four
     ·    Two men who were shot by police, aged 22, and 28, remain in hospital
     ·    Six residential addresses in London and Lincolnshire searched today


A man and a woman, both 29, were today arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to
murder in relation to the Woolwich terror murder of Drummer Lee Rigby, Scotland
Yard said.

A total of four people including the two men shot by police have now been
arrested in connection with the killing - and the latest two arrested were being
questioned at a south London police station.

The two men who were shot, aged 22 and 28, have been arrested on suspicion of
murder and remain in hospital in a stable condition with non life-threatening
injuries.

Drummer Rigby was yesterday hacked to death by two attackers in Woolwich,
south-east London.

Scotland Yard said six residential addresses were searched today as part of the
investigation - three in south London, one in east London, one in north London
and one in Lincolnshire.

'This is a large, complex and fast-moving investigation which continues to
develop,' a spokesman said. 'Many lines of inquiry are being followed by
detectives and the investigation is progressing well.'

Officers recovered various items from the scene and were appealing for witnesses
to send in footage and photographs of the incident. A post mortem was taking
place on Drummer Rigby's body today.

U.S. President Barack Obama offered his support to Britain tonight, saying: 'The
United States stands resolute with the United Kingdom, our ally and friend,
against violent extremism and terror.

'There can be absolutely no justification for such acts, and our thoughts and
prayers are with the family of the victim, the police and security services
responding to this horrific act and the communities they serve, and the British
people.'


     ·    Anyone who may have witnessed the incident was asked to contact police
          on 0800 789321. Anyone who filmed or took photos as events unfolded in
          John Wilson Street was also asked to send them to police in confidence
          via woolwich@metincident.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 6:49 PM GMT

'Terror attack will not divide us but makes us stronger': Cameron's vow as he
urges Britain to continue with normal life

BYLINE: MATT CHORLEY, MAILONLINE POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3995 words



     ·    Prime Minister condemns sickening attack on a soldier in London
     ·    President Barack Obama also condemns killing in the 'strongest terms'
     ·    Reveals that two suspects were known to security services
     ·    Addressed nation after chairing emergency Cobra committee meeting
     ·    Paid tribute to Scout leader who confronted knife-wielding attacker
     ·    Victim named as 25-year-old drummer Lee Rigby
     ·    Green party leader Natalie Bennett blames killing on Iraq and
          Afghanistan
     ·    U-turn on banning troops from wearing uniforms in public
     ·    London Mayor Boris Johnson hints that attack is being treated as a
          one-off


David Cameron urged people to 'go about our normal lives' in response to the
brutal killing of drummer Lee Rigby on the streets of London.

The Prime Minister today overruled a Ministry of Defence ban on troops wearing
uniforms in public, insisting Britain will not 'buckle' to terror.

In a strident statement outside Number 10 today, Mr Cameron said: 'The people
who did this were trying to divide us. They should know: something like this
will only bring us together and make us stronger.'

Scroll down for video and full statement

Mr Cameron said images from the horrific killing of the 25-year-old on a busy
street in Woolwich were 'deeply shocking'.

He said the family of the murdered solider are 'grieving for a loved one and we
have lost a brave solider'.

Later, U.S. President Barack Obama condemned the killing in the 'strongest
terms'.

He said: 'The United States stands resolute with the United Kingdom, our ally
and friend, against violent extremism and terror.

'One of the best ways of defeating terrorism is to go about our normal lives.
And that is what we shall all do'                           Prime Minister David
Cameron

'There can be absolutely no justification for such acts, and our thoughts and
prayers are with the family of the victim, the police and security services
responding to this horrific act and the communities they serve, and the British
people.'

Police were this afternoon guarding the 25-year-old serviceman's home in
Middleton, Greater Manchester.  He was described as a 'loving father' to his son
Jack, two.

Drummer Lee Rigby was just starting his Army career and had recently fought in
Afghanistan with the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers.

But as he walked towards the Royal Artillery Barracks in Woolwich, south-east
London yesterday afternoon, he was run down by a car on the pavement and hacked
to death.

Mr Cameron said he could not comment on the detailed police investigation but
vowed: 'This country will be absolutely resolute in its stand against extremism
and terror.

'We will never give in to terror or terrorism in any of its forms. This view is
shared by every community.'

Mr Cameron revealed that the two suspected killers were known to the security
services and promised that the authorities will investigate into whether the
attack could have been prevented.

'As is the normal practice in these sorts of cases, the Independent Police
Complaints Commission will be able to review the actions of the police, and the
Intelligence and Security Committee will be able to do the same for the wider,'
he said.

'But nothing should be done to get in the way of their absolutely vital work.'

GREEN PARTY LEADER BLAMES KILLING ON IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN

Green party leader Natalie Bennett courted controversy when she suggested the
killing of a British soldier was connected to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The Australian former Guardian journalist said there would be more similar
attacks if Britain continued to act like 'the world's policeman'.

David Cameron and Boris Johnson are among the senior politicians to reject the
idea that the Woolwich slaughter of drummer Lee Rigby could be justified or
connected to British military activity overseas.

But Ms Bennett said: 'It's absolutely tragic what happened in Woolwich and
you've got to feel not just for the family of the serviceman but also for the
people and bystanders that saw it happen and the emergency services that had to
deal with it afterwards.

'But if we're going to stop that happening again in the future, one of the
biggest things we have to do is stop regarding ourselves as the world's
policeman.'

In an interview with LondonLovesBusiness, she added: 'Look at Iraq, Afghanistan
- we should never have got involved and the results have been dreadful for us.
We need to stop regarding ourselves us as having the right to stick our oar in
around the world.'

Government sources confirmed to MailOnline that the names of both suspects were
on a list maintained by the security services, but stressed it was unclear what
level of surveillance if any they were under.

In shocking video footage in the wake of the violence, one attacker with blood
on his hands was filmed declaring: 'We swear by almighty Allah we will never
stop fighting you.'

But Mr Cameron rejected the idea that the killing would ever be justified by the
Muslim community.

'This was not just an attack on Britain - and on our British way of life. It was
also a betrayal of Islam - and of the Muslim communities who are give so much to
our country.

'There is nothing in Islam that justifies this truly dreadful act.

'We will defeat violent extremism by standing together, by backing our police
and security services and above all by challenging the poisonous narrative of
extremism on which this violence feeds.

'Britain works with our international partners to make the world safe from
terrorism. Terrorism that has taken more Muslim lives than any other religion.

'It is an utter perversion of the truth to pretend anything different. That is
why there is absolutely no justification for these acts and the fault for them
lies solely and purely with the sickening individuals who carried out this
appalling attack.'

Senior ministers, police and intelligence agencies gathered in Downing Street
this morning for a second meeting of the emergency Cobra committee to plot the
government's reaction to what is being treated as a terror attack.

The Cobra meeting was attended by Met commissioner Bernard Hogan Howe, deputy
commissioner Cressida Dick, Defence Secretary Philip Hammond, Communities
Secretary Eric Pickles, Faith Minister Baroness Warsi, London Mayor Boris
Johnson and the intelligence services.

Mr Cameron said it was 'natural' that questions would be asked about 'what
additional steps can be taken to keep us safe' but he added he was 'not in
favour of kneejerk responses'.

During the hour-long meeting there was an update from the police and agencies
into the ongoing investigation and an update from the MoD on protective
security.

It is understood military commanders last night issued guidance to all serving
personnel in London to not wear their uniforms in public.

Ministry of Defence sources said this had been part of an 'automatic' tightening
of security following a major incident.

Though the victim of the Woolwich atrocity was not in uniform, it is understood
he was wearing a Help for Heroes hooded top and carrying a military camouflaged
rucksack.

But Mr Cameron is thought to have intervened and troops are being told to wear
their uniforms as normal.

The Prime Minister used his personal Twitter account last night to issue the
defiant message: 'We will never buckle to terror.'

Colonel Richard Kemp, who commanded British forces in Afghanistan, said any
change to rule son uniforms would 'suggest we live in a state of fear of this
type of attack continuing'.

As the MoD formally confirmed the dead man was a serving soldier, Mr Hammond
said: 'I am shocked by the brutality of this cold-blooded murder of a serviceman
on the streets of London.

'We are co-operating with the Metropolitan Police in their investigation and
will take all steps necessary to protect our servicemen and women. My thoughts
are with the family and loved ones of the deceased.'

Chief of the Defence Staff General Sir David Richards said: 'I was appalled to
hear of this abhorrent crime committed against one of our servicemen.

'I add my voice to that of the rest of the country in condemning this foul act
and I extend my deepest sympathies to the family and loved ones of the victim
during this most distressing time.'

London Mayor Boris Johnson hinted that security services believe the horrific
attack was a one-off and do not expect a wave of similar killings.

He told reporters: 'Everything I am hearing leads me to think that Londoners can
go about their business in the normal way and we are going to bring the killers
to justice.'

Ahead of the talks Mr Cameron said he had received an update from Mr Hogan-Howe
on the 'sickening killing'.

During the hour-long meeting there was an update from the police and agencies
into the ongoing investigation and an update from the MOD on protective
security. There was a discussion about community cohesion.

A Downing Street spokesman said: 'The strength and unity of response from Muslim
community leaders was recognised and commended by ministers and others around
the table.'

Labour leader Ed Miliband, who has been briefed on the security situation by Mr
Cameron, backed the message of unity.

He said: 'This was an appalling and horrific murder and all of my condolences
are with the families and friends of the victim, and indeed with our troops
because they serve incredibly bravely all around the world and they've seen one
of their own murdered in an act of complete cowardice.

'There are people who try to divide us with acts like this. They've tried it
before in London and they've failed and they will always fail.;

The Prime Minister last night cancelled talks with French President Francois
Hollande in Paris to travel urgently to back to London to take charge of the
government's response.

Two men armed with knives repeatedly stabbed and tried to behead an off-duty
soldier in front of  dozens of passers-by on a crowded street in Woolwich, East
London yesterday afternoon.

Video footage shows one of the attackers with blood on his hands and clutching a
meat cleaver declaring: 'We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting
you.

'The only reason we have done this is because Muslims are dying every day. This
British soldier is an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.'

Arriving at Downing Street, Mr Johnson sought to counter claims made by the
attackers that the killing was the result of British troops serving in
Afghanistan.

He said: 'It is completely wrong to blame this killing on the religion of Islam.

'But it is also equally wrong to try to draw any link between this murder and
British foreign policy or the actions of British forces who are risking their
lives abroad for the sake of freedom.

'The fault lies wholly and exclusively in the warped and deluded mindset of the
people who did it'

BORIS JOHNSON: FOREIGN POLICY NOT TO BLAME FOR BRUTAL ATTACK

Boris Johnson arrived at Downing Street for the Cobra meeting with a warning
that the Woolwich knife attack must not be blamed on British foreign policy.

'It is completely wrong to blame this killing on the religion of Islam, but it
is also equally wrong to try to draw any link between this murder and British
foreign policy or the actions of British forces who are risking their lives
abroad for the sake of freedom.

'The fault lies wholly and exclusively in the warped and deluded mindset of the
people who did it.

'What we need now is, for the sake of the victim and the sake of his family, for
those killers to be brought to justice.

'I think I want to pay particular tribute, not just to the work of the police
and security services yesterday.

'But also, above all, to the people of Woolwich, who showed such exemplary
courage and bravery in a very difficult situation indeed.'

'The people of London should take their cue, from the behaviour of the people of
Woolwich yesterday, who showed such astonishing natural courage in dealing with
an appalling event, and who stood up to these killers.

'I think that that's the spirit of London, and that's what I would call upon
people to do today: go about their lives in the normal way.'

Baroness Neville-Jones, former chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee,
said the security services would examine whether the attack was carried out by a
'lone wolf' or by someone with further connections, either at home or abroad.

She told BBC Radio 4 she was 'inclined' to think the 'isolated attack... is
possibly more in the nature of a lone wolf'.

But she warned it is 'particularly hard to deal with because there are very few
outward signs beforehand of the nature the intelligence services can pick up'.

Colonel Richard Kemp, who commanded British forces in Afghanistan, said a ban on
uniforms in public would be wrong.

'As we saw in this case you don't need to have somebody in uniform, you just
need to have someone who knows a bit about soldiers and does a bit of
observation in the vicinity of a barracks and you can identify a soldier very
quickly,' he told the BBC.

'I think we should be right to think about ways of protecting ourselves better
but I think it would be wrong to suggest we live in a state of fear of this type
of attack continuing.

He also warned 'further attacks will be inspired by this type of attack'.

He said more resources needed to be put into the role of websites in
radicalising people. The security services should 'look very carefully at which
radical sites should be suppressed on the internet', he added.

Last night Mr Cameron described the attack as 'truly shocking' and 'the most
appalling crime'.

He had been at a Brussels summit before travelling to Paris but tore up his
schedule to receive a detailed telephone briefing on the latest from Woolwich
from Home Secretary Theresa May.

Mrs May last night chaired the first meeting of the Cobra emergency committee.

After being briefed by the head of Scotland Yard and the director of the
security services, she branded it a 'barbaric case', adding that 'there is a
strong indication that it was an act of terrorism'.

The Home Secretary added: 'This attack was an attack on everyone in the United
Kingdom, and it will be condemned by people from every community.

'Our thoughts and prayers tonight are with the victim and his family.

'We have seen terrorism on the streets of Britain before, and have always stood
firm against it. Despicable acts like these will not go unpunished.'

Mr Cameron gave a brief  press conference from the Elysee Palace before
returning to London last night. He said: 'People across Britain, people in every
community, I believe, will utterly condemn this attack.

DID YOU SEE THE BRUTAL ATTACK?

Did you witness the killing and take pictures or video?

Or do you know the men involved?

Email us: mailonlinepictures@dailymail.co.uk

Or call 0203 615 1866

'We have had these sorts of attacks before in our country and we never buckle in
the face of them.'

When news of the attack broke, he wrote on Twitter: 'The killing in Woolwich is
truly shocking.'

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg condemned a 'shocking and horrifying murder on
the streets of our capital'.

'The whole nation's thoughts will be with the family and friends of the victim
this evening.

'People across our country, whatever background they are from, will be united in
condemning this attack and we will stand together, as we always do, in our
response.'

Labour leader Ed Miliband cut short a visit to Germany to return to the UK. He
promised the Labour party would offer the government 'complete support' in
ensuring the killers 'face the full force of British justice'.

Mr Miliband said: 'This is a truly appalling murder which will shock the entire
country.

DAVID CAMERON: BRITAIN WILL NEVER BUCKLE TO TERRORISM

Britain will 'never buckle' in the face of terrorist incidents, David Cameron
vowed last night, as he condemned the 'absolutely sickening' killing in London.

'Iur thoughts should be with the victim, with their family, with their friends,'
the Prime Minister said.

'People across Britain, people in every community, I believe, will utterly
condemn this attack.

'We have had these sorts of attacks before in our country and we never buckle in
the face of them.'

Mr Cameron was speaking at a Paris press conference with French president
Francois Hollande but confirmed he would cut short the visit to return to the UK
tonight to chair a meeting of the Government's Cobra emergency committee in the
morning.

'It is the most appalling crime. We are obviously seeking, and the police are
urgently seeking the full facts about this case, but there are strong
indications that it is a terrorist incident.'

'All of my thoughts are with the family and friends of the victim. The British
people will be horrified by what has happened in Woolwich. They will be united
in believing that this terror on our streets cannot be allowed to stand.'

Other political leaders called for calm and warned against knee-jerk reactions
to the killing.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: 'We are all left horrified by this appalling
attack on the peaceful streets of London and our thoughts and prayers go out to
the family of the young man who was killed and those who were injured.

'I hope and believe that this is an isolated incident and appeal for calm in our
communities.'

A statement from the Muslim Council of Britain said: 'This is a truly barbaric
act that has no basis in Islam and we condemn this unreservedly.

'This attack on a member of the Armed Forces is dishonourable, and no cause
justifies this murder.

'This action will no doubt heighten tensions on the streets of the United
Kingdom.

'We call on all our communities, Muslim and non-Muslim, to come together in
solidarity to ensure the forces of hatred do not prevail.'

Tory vice-chairman Michael Fabricant wrote on Twitter: 'I do hope members of the
armed forces are not now advised to not wear uniforms in our streets for fear of
terror attacks.'

The Queen is said to be 'concerned' at the news of the attack and has asked to
be kept up to date on the latest developments, Buckingham Palace said.

However Respect MP George Galloway was condemned by critics after writing on
Twitter: 'This sickening atrocity in London is exactly what we are paying the
same kind of people to do in Syria.'

Leader of the far-Right BNP Nick Griffin claimed soldiers were 'safer on front
line than in London, that's the reality of mass immigration', adding: 'The
politicians who did this to Britain should hang.'

'Scout leader who confronted killer spoke for us all'

David Cameron today paid tribute to a Cub Scout leader who confronted one of the
Islamic fanatics after he had slaughtered a soldier in Woolwich.

The Prime Minister said the bravery Ingrid Loyau-Kennett showed how communities
will unite to defeat extremism in Britain.

The moment the fearless mother-of-two remonstrated with one of the killers,
whose hands were blood-soaked and still carried knives, was filmed in the
aftermath of the terror attack.

Today the suspect who gave a chilling rant to camera moments after the murder
was named online as British Nigerian Michael Adebolajo - who is known by the
Muslim name Mujahid.

48-year-old Ingrid Loyau-Kennett jumped off her bus when she saw the tragic
soldier's body lying in the south-east London street, checked his pulse and then
tried to talk to the men who hacked him to death.

After pleading with them to hand her the weapons, one told her: 'We want to
start a war in London tonight'.

She replied: 'Right now it is only you versus many people, you are going to
lose'.

Mr Cameron said: 'Confronting extremism is a job for us all. And the fact that
our communities will unite in doing this was vividly demonstrated by the brave
cub pack leader - Ingrid Loyau-Kennett.

'When told by the attacker that he wanted to start a war in London she replied
"You're going to lose. It's only you versus many." She spoke for us all.'

'Defeat extremism by standing together': PM's statement

What happened yesterday in Woolwich has sickened us all. On our televisions last
night - and in our newspapers this morning - we have all seen images that are
deeply shocking.

The people who did this were trying to divide us. They should know: something
like this will only bring us together and make us stronger.

Today our thoughts are with the victim - and with his family. They are grieving
for a loved one and we have lost a brave soldier.

This morning I have chaired a meeting of COBRA. And I want to thank the police
and security services for the incredible work they do to keep our country safe.

There are police investigations and security service operations underway - so
obviously there is a limit on what I can say.

But already a number of things are clear. First, this country will be absolutely
resolute in its stand against violent extremism and terror.

We will never give in to terror - or terrorism - in any of its forms. Second,
this view is shared by every community in our country.

This was not just an attack on Britain - and on our British way of life. It was
also a betrayal of Islam - and of the Muslim communities who are give so much to
our country.

There is nothing in Islam that justifies this truly dreadful act.

We will defeat violent extremism by standing together, by backing our police and
security services and above all by challenging the poisonous narrative of
extremism on which this violence feeds.

Britain works with our international partners to make the world safe from
terrorism. Terrorism that has taken more Muslim lives than any other religion.

It is an utter perversion of the truth to pretend anything different. That is
why there is absolutely no justification for these acts and the fault for them
lies solely and purely with the sickening individuals who carried out this
appalling attack.

Confronting extremism is a job for us all.  And the fact that our communities
will unite in doing this was vividly demonstrated by the brave cub pack leader -
Ingrid Loyau-Kennett - who confronted one of the attackers on the streets of
Woolwich yesterday afternoon.

When told by the attacker that he wanted to start a war in London she replied
"You're going to lose. It's only you versus many." She spoke for us all.

The Police and Security Services will follow every lead, turn over every piece
of evidence, make every connection and will not rest until we know every single
detail of what happened and we've brought all of those responsible to justice.

I know from three years as being Prime Minister that the police and intelligence
agencies work around the clock to keep us safe from violent extremists.

I watch their work every week. They do an outstanding job.  They show incredible
heroism, much of which can not be reported.

They have my staunch support and the support of the whole country.

The point that the two suspects in this horrific attack were known to the
security services has been widely reported.

You would not expect me to comment on this when a criminal investigation is
ongoing.

But what I can say is this. As is the normal practice in these sorts of cases,
the Independent Police Complaints Commission will be able to review the actions
of the police and the Intelligence and Security Committee will be able to do the
same for the wider agencies.

But nothing should be done to get in the way of their absolutely vital work.
After an event like this, it is natural that questions will be asked about what
additional steps can be taken to keep us safe.

I will make sure those questions are asked and answered. But I am not in favour
of knee-jerk responses.

The Police have responded with heightened security and activity - and that is
right. But one of the best ways of defeating terrorism is to go about our normal
lives.

And that is what we shall all do.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 6:36 PM GMT

BREAKING NEWS: Man and woman, both 29, arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to
murder following Woolwich terror attack

BYLINE: MARK DUELL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 28 words


A man and a woman, both 29, were today arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to
murder in relation to the Woolwich terror murder of Drummer Lee Rigby, Scotland
Yard said.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 5:50 PM GMT

'Terror attack will not divide us but makes us stronger': Cameron's vow as he
urges Britain to continue with normal life

BYLINE: MATT CHORLEY, MAILONLINE POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3909 words



     ·    Prime Minister condemns sickening attack on a soldier in London
     ·    Reveals that two suspects were known to security services
     ·    Addressed nation after chairing emergency Cobra committee meeting
     ·    Paid tribute to Scout leader who confronted knife-wielding attacker
     ·    Victim named as 25-year-old drummer Lee Rigby
     ·    Green party leader Natalie Bennett blames killing on Iraq and
          Afghanistan
     ·    U-turn on banning troops from wearing uniforms in public
     ·    London Mayor Boris Johnson hints that attack is being treated as a
          one-off


David Cameron urged people to 'go about our normal lives' in response to the
brutal killing of drummer Lee Rigby on the streets of London.

The Prime Minister today overruled a Ministry of Defence ban on troops wearing
uniforms in public, insisting Britain will not 'buckle' to terror.

In a strident statement outside Number 10 today, Mr Cameron said: 'The people
who did this were trying to divide us. They should know: something like this
will only bring us together and make us stronger.'

Scroll down for video and full statement

Mr Cameron said images from the horrific killing of the 25-year-old on a busy
street in Woolwich were 'deeply shocking'.

He said the family of the murdered solider are 'grieving for a loved one and we
have lost a brave solider'.

Police were this afternoon guarding the 25-year-old serviceman's home in
Middleton, Greater Manchester.  He was described as a 'loving father' to his son
Jack, two.

Drummer Lee Rigby was just starting his Army career and had recently fought in
Afghanistan with the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers.

'One of the best ways of defeating terrorism is to go about our normal lives.
And that is what we shall all do'                           Prime Minister David
Cameron

But as he walked towards the Royal Artillery Barracks in Woolwich, south-east
London yesterday afternoon, he was run down by a car on the pavement and hacked
to death.

Mr Cameron said he could not comment on the detailed police investigation but
vowed: 'This country will be absolutely resolute in its stand against extremism
and terror.

'We will never give in to terror or terrorism in any of its forms. This view is
shared by every community.'

Mr Cameron revealed that the two suspected killers were known to the security
services and promised that the authorities will investigate into whether the
attack could have been prevented.

'As is the normal practice in these sorts of cases, the Independent Police
Complaints Commission will be able to review the actions of the police, and the
Intelligence and Security Committee will be able to do the same for the wider,'
he said.

'But nothing should be done to get in the way of their absolutely vital work.'

GREEN PARTY LEADER BLAMES KILLING ON IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN

Green party leader Natalie Bennett courted controversy when she suggested the
killing of a British soldier was connected to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The Australian former Guardian journalist said there would be more similar
attacks if Britain continued to act like 'the world's policeman'.

David Cameron and Boris Johnson are among the senior politicians to reject the
idea that the Woolwich slaughter of drummer Lee Rigby could be justified or
connected to British military activity overseas.

But Ms Bennett said: 'It's absolutely tragic what happened in Woolwich and
you've got to feel not just for the family of the serviceman but also for the
people and bystanders that saw it happen and the emergency services that had to
deal with it afterwards.

'But if we're going to stop that happening again in the future, one of the
biggest things we have to do is stop regarding ourselves as the world's
policeman.'

In an interview with LondonLovesBusiness, she added: 'Look at Iraq, Afghanistan
- we should never have got involved and the results have been dreadful for us.
We need to stop regarding ourselves us as having the right to stick our oar in
around the world.'

Government sources confirmed to MailOnline that the names of both suspects were
on a list maintained by the security services, but stressed it was unclear what
level of surveillance if any they were under.

In shocking video footage in the wake of the violence, one attacker with blood
on his hands was filmed declaring: 'We swear by almighty Allah we will never
stop fighting you.'

But Mr Cameron rejected the idea that the killing would ever be justified by the
Muslim community.

'This was not just an attack on Britain - and on our British way of life. It was
also a betrayal of Islam - and of the Muslim communities who are give so much to
our country.

'There is nothing in Islam that justifies this truly dreadful act.

'We will defeat violent extremism by standing together, by backing our police
and security services and above all by challenging the poisonous narrative of
extremism on which this violence feeds.

'Britain works with our international partners to make the world safe from
terrorism. Terrorism that has taken more Muslim lives than any other religion.

'It is an utter perversion of the truth to pretend anything different. That is
why there is absolutely no justification for these acts and the fault for them
lies solely and purely with the sickening individuals who carried out this
appalling attack.'

Senior ministers, police and intelligence agencies gathered in Downing Street
this morning for a second meeting of the emergency Cobra committee to plot the
government's reaction to what is being treated as a terror attack.

The Cobra meeting was attended by Met commissioner Bernard Hogan Howe, deputy
commissioner Cressida Dick, Defence Secretary Philip Hammond, Communities
Secretary Eric Pickles, Faith Minister Baroness Warsi, London Mayor Boris
Johnson and the intelligence services.

Mr Cameron said it was 'natural' that questions would be asked about 'what
additional steps can be taken to keep us safe' but he added he was 'not in
favour of kneejerk responses'.

During the hour-long meeting there was an update from the police and agencies
into the ongoing investigation and an update from the MoD on protective
security.

It is understood military commanders last night issued guidance to all serving
personnel in London to not wear their uniforms in public.

Ministry of Defence sources said this had been part of an 'automatic' tightening
of security following a major incident.

Though the victim of the Woolwich atrocity was not in uniform, it is understood
he was wearing a Help for Heroes hooded top and carrying a military camouflaged
rucksack.

But Mr Cameron is thought to have intervened and troops are being told to wear
their uniforms as normal.

The Prime Minister used his personal Twitter account last night to issue the
defiant message: 'We will never buckle to terror.'

Colonel Richard Kemp, who commanded British forces in Afghanistan, said any
change to rule son uniforms would 'suggest we live in a state of fear of this
type of attack continuing'.

As the MoD formally confirmed the dead man was a serving soldier, Mr Hammond
said: 'I am shocked by the brutality of this cold-blooded murder of a serviceman
on the streets of London.

'We are co-operating with the Metropolitan Police in their investigation and
will take all steps necessary to protect our servicemen and women. My thoughts
are with the family and loved ones of the deceased.'

Chief of the Defence Staff General Sir David Richards said: 'I was appalled to
hear of this abhorrent crime committed against one of our servicemen.

'I add my voice to that of the rest of the country in condemning this foul act
and I extend my deepest sympathies to the family and loved ones of the victim
during this most distressing time.'

London Mayor Boris Johnson hinted that security services believe the horrific
attack was a one-off and do not expect a wave of similar killings.

He told reporters: 'Everything I am hearing leads me to think that Londoners can
go about their business in the normal way and we are going to bring the killers
to justice.'

Ahead of the talks Mr Cameron said he had received an update from Mr Hogan-Howe
on the 'sickening killing'.

During the hour-long meeting there was an update from the police and agencies
into the ongoing investigation and an update from the MOD on protective
security. There was a discussion about community cohesion.

A Downing Street spokesman said: 'The strength and unity of response from Muslim
community leaders was recognised and commended by ministers and others around
the table.'

Labour leader Ed Miliband, who has been briefed on the security situation by Mr
Cameron, backed the message of unity.

He said: 'This was an appalling and horrific murder and all of my condolences
are with the families and friends of the victim, and indeed with our troops
because they serve incredibly bravely all around the world and they've seen one
of their own murdered in an act of complete cowardice.

'There are people who try to divide us with acts like this. They've tried it
before in London and they've failed and they will always fail.;

The Prime Minister last night cancelled talks with French President Francois
Hollande in Paris to travel urgently to back to London to take charge of the
government's response.

Two men armed with knives repeatedly stabbed and tried to behead an off-duty
soldier in front of  dozens of passers-by on a crowded street in Woolwich, East
London yesterday afternoon.

Video footage shows one of the attackers with blood on his hands and clutching a
meat cleaver declaring: 'We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting
you.

'The only reason we have done this is because Muslims are dying every day. This
British soldier is an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.'

Arriving at Downing Street, Mr Johnson sought to counter claims made by the
attackers that the killing was the result of British troops serving in
Afghanistan.

He said: 'It is completely wrong to blame this killing on the religion of Islam.

'But it is also equally wrong to try to draw any link between this murder and
British foreign policy or the actions of British forces who are risking their
lives abroad for the sake of freedom.

'The fault lies wholly and exclusively in the warped and deluded mindset of the
people who did it'

BORIS JOHNSON: FOREIGN POLICY NOT TO BLAME FOR BRUTAL ATTACK

Boris Johnson arrived at Downing Street for the Cobra meeting with a warning
that the Woolwich knife attack must not be blamed on British foreign policy.

'It is completely wrong to blame this killing on the religion of Islam, but it
is also equally wrong to try to draw any link between this murder and British
foreign policy or the actions of British forces who are risking their lives
abroad for the sake of freedom.

'The fault lies wholly and exclusively in the warped and deluded mindset of the
people who did it.

'What we need now is, for the sake of the victim and the sake of his family, for
those killers to be brought to justice.

'I think I want to pay particular tribute, not just to the work of the police
and security services yesterday.

'But also, above all, to the people of Woolwich, who showed such exemplary
courage and bravery in a very difficult situation indeed.'

'The people of London should take their cue, from the behaviour of the people of
Woolwich yesterday, who showed such astonishing natural courage in dealing with
an appalling event, and who stood up to these killers.

'I think that that's the spirit of London, and that's what I would call upon
people to do today: go about their lives in the normal way.'

Baroness Neville-Jones, former chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee,
said the security services would examine whether the attack was carried out by a
'lone wolf' or by someone with further connections, either at home or abroad.

She told BBC Radio 4 she was 'inclined' to think the 'isolated attack... is
possibly more in the nature of a lone wolf'.

But she warned it is 'particularly hard to deal with because there are very few
outward signs beforehand of the nature the intelligence services can pick up'.

Colonel Richard Kemp, who commanded British forces in Afghanistan, said a ban on
uniforms in public would be wrong.

'As we saw in this case you don't need to have somebody in uniform, you just
need to have someone who knows a bit about soldiers and does a bit of
observation in the vicinity of a barracks and you can identify a soldier very
quickly,' he told the BBC.

'I think we should be right to think about ways of protecting ourselves better
but I think it would be wrong to suggest we live in a state of fear of this type
of attack continuing.

He also warned 'further attacks will be inspired by this type of attack'.

He said more resources needed to be put into the role of websites in
radicalising people. The security services should 'look very carefully at which
radical sites should be suppressed on the internet', he added.

Last night Mr Cameron described the attack as 'truly shocking' and 'the most
appalling crime'.

He had been at a Brussels summit before travelling to Paris but tore up his
schedule to receive a detailed telephone briefing on the latest from Woolwich
from Home Secretary Theresa May.

Mrs May last night chaired the first meeting of the Cobra emergency committee.

After being briefed by the head of Scotland Yard and the director of the
security services, she branded it a 'barbaric case', adding that 'there is a
strong indication that it was an act of terrorism'.

The Home Secretary added: 'This attack was an attack on everyone in the United
Kingdom, and it will be condemned by people from every community.

'Our thoughts and prayers tonight are with the victim and his family.

'We have seen terrorism on the streets of Britain before, and have always stood
firm against it. Despicable acts like these will not go unpunished.'

Mr Cameron gave a brief  press conference from the Elysee Palace before
returning to London last night. He said: 'People across Britain, people in every
community, I believe, will utterly condemn this attack.

DID YOU SEE THE BRUTAL ATTACK?

Did you witness the killing and take pictures or video?

Or do you know the men involved?

Email us: mailonlinepictures@dailymail.co.uk

Or call 0203 615 1866

'We have had these sorts of attacks before in our country and we never buckle in
the face of them.'

When news of the attack broke, he wrote on Twitter: 'The killing in Woolwich is
truly shocking.'

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg condemned a 'shocking and horrifying murder on
the streets of our capital'.

'The whole nation's thoughts will be with the family and friends of the victim
this evening.

'People across our country, whatever background they are from, will be united in
condemning this attack and we will stand together, as we always do, in our
response.'

Labour leader Ed Miliband cut short a visit to Germany to return to the UK. He
promised the Labour party would offer the government 'complete support' in
ensuring the killers 'face the full force of British justice'.

Mr Miliband said: 'This is a truly appalling murder which will shock the entire
country.

DAVID CAMERON: BRITAIN WILL NEVER BUCKLE TO TERRORISM

Britain will 'never buckle' in the face of terrorist incidents, David Cameron
vowed last night, as he condemned the 'absolutely sickening' killing in London.

'Iur thoughts should be with the victim, with their family, with their friends,'
the Prime Minister said.

'People across Britain, people in every community, I believe, will utterly
condemn this attack.

'We have had these sorts of attacks before in our country and we never buckle in
the face of them.'

Mr Cameron was speaking at a Paris press conference with French president
Francois Hollande but confirmed he would cut short the visit to return to the UK
tonight to chair a meeting of the Government's Cobra emergency committee in the
morning.

'It is the most appalling crime. We are obviously seeking, and the police are
urgently seeking the full facts about this case, but there are strong
indications that it is a terrorist incident.'

'All of my thoughts are with the family and friends of the victim. The British
people will be horrified by what has happened in Woolwich. They will be united
in believing that this terror on our streets cannot be allowed to stand.'

Other political leaders called for calm and warned against knee-jerk reactions
to the killing.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: 'We are all left horrified by this appalling
attack on the peaceful streets of London and our thoughts and prayers go out to
the family of the young man who was killed and those who were injured.

'I hope and believe that this is an isolated incident and appeal for calm in our
communities.'

A statement from the Muslim Council of Britain said: 'This is a truly barbaric
act that has no basis in Islam and we condemn this unreservedly.

'This attack on a member of the Armed Forces is dishonourable, and no cause
justifies this murder.

'This action will no doubt heighten tensions on the streets of the United
Kingdom.

'We call on all our communities, Muslim and non-Muslim, to come together in
solidarity to ensure the forces of hatred do not prevail.'

Tory vice-chairman Michael Fabricant wrote on Twitter: 'I do hope members of the
armed forces are not now advised to not wear uniforms in our streets for fear of
terror attacks.'

The Queen is said to be 'concerned' at the news of the attack and has asked to
be kept up to date on the latest developments, Buckingham Palace said.

However Respect MP George Galloway was condemned by critics after writing on
Twitter: 'This sickening atrocity in London is exactly what we are paying the
same kind of people to do in Syria.'

Leader of the far-Right BNP Nick Griffin claimed soldiers were 'safer on front
line than in London, that's the reality of mass immigration', adding: 'The
politicians who did this to Britain should hang.'

'Scout leader who confronted killer spoke for us all'

David Cameron today paid tribute to a Cub Scout leader who confronted one of the
Islamic fanatics after he had slaughtered a soldier in Woolwich.

The Prime Minister said the bravery Ingrid Loyau-Kennett showed how communities
will unite to defeat extremism in Britain.

The moment the fearless mother-of-two remonstrated with one of the killers,
whose hands were blood-soaked and still carried knives, was filmed in the
aftermath of the terror attack.

Today the suspect who gave a chilling rant to camera moments after the murder
was named online as British Nigerian Michael Adebolajo - who is known by the
Muslim name Mujahid.

48-year-old Ingrid Loyau-Kennett jumped off her bus when she saw the tragic
soldier's body lying in the south-east London street, checked his pulse and then
tried to talk to the men who hacked him to death.

After pleading with them to hand her the weapons, one told her: 'We want to
start a war in London tonight'.

She replied: 'Right now it is only you versus many people, you are going to
lose'.

Mr Cameron said: 'Confronting extremism is a job for us all. And the fact that
our communities will unite in doing this was vividly demonstrated by the brave
cub pack leader - Ingrid Loyau-Kennett.

'When told by the attacker that he wanted to start a war in London she replied
"You're going to lose. It's only you versus many." She spoke for us all.'

'Defeat extremism by standing together': PM's statement

What happened yesterday in Woolwich has sickened us all. On our televisions last
night - and in our newspapers this morning - we have all seen images that are
deeply shocking.

The people who did this were trying to divide us. They should know: something
like this will only bring us together and make us stronger.

Today our thoughts are with the victim - and with his family. They are grieving
for a loved one and we have lost a brave soldier.

This morning I have chaired a meeting of COBRA. And I want to thank the police
and security services for the incredible work they do to keep our country safe.

There are police investigations and security service operations underway - so
obviously there is a limit on what I can say.

But already a number of things are clear. First, this country will be absolutely
resolute in its stand against violent extremism and terror.

We will never give in to terror - or terrorism - in any of its forms. Second,
this view is shared by every community in our country.

This was not just an attack on Britain - and on our British way of life. It was
also a betrayal of Islam - and of the Muslim communities who are give so much to
our country.

There is nothing in Islam that justifies this truly dreadful act.

We will defeat violent extremism by standing together, by backing our police and
security services and above all by challenging the poisonous narrative of
extremism on which this violence feeds.

Britain works with our international partners to make the world safe from
terrorism. Terrorism that has taken more Muslim lives than any other religion.

It is an utter perversion of the truth to pretend anything different. That is
why there is absolutely no justification for these acts and the fault for them
lies solely and purely with the sickening individuals who carried out this
appalling attack.

Confronting extremism is a job for us all.  And the fact that our communities
will unite in doing this was vividly demonstrated by the brave cub pack leader -
Ingrid Loyau-Kennett - who confronted one of the attackers on the streets of
Woolwich yesterday afternoon.

When told by the attacker that he wanted to start a war in London she replied
"You're going to lose. It's only you versus many." She spoke for us all.

The Police and Security Services will follow every lead, turn over every piece
of evidence, make every connection and will not rest until we know every single
detail of what happened and we've brought all of those responsible to justice.

I know from three years as being Prime Minister that the police and intelligence
agencies work around the clock to keep us safe from violent extremists.

I watch their work every week. They do an outstanding job.  They show incredible
heroism, much of which can not be reported.

They have my staunch support and the support of the whole country.

The point that the two suspects in this horrific attack were known to the
security services has been widely reported.

You would not expect me to comment on this when a criminal investigation is
ongoing.

But what I can say is this. As is the normal practice in these sorts of cases,
the Independent Police Complaints Commission will be able to review the actions
of the police and the Intelligence and Security Committee will be able to do the
same for the wider agencies.

But nothing should be done to get in the way of their absolutely vital work.
After an event like this, it is natural that questions will be asked about what
additional steps can be taken to keep us safe.

I will make sure those questions are asked and answered. But I am not in favour
of knee-jerk responses.

The Police have responded with heightened security and activity - and that is
right. But one of the best ways of defeating terrorism is to go about our normal
lives.

And that is what we shall all do.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 2:49 PM GMT

'Terror attack will not divide us but makes us stronger': Cameron's vow as he
urges Britain to continue with normal life

BYLINE: MATT CHORLEY, MAILONLINE POLITICAL EDITOR and JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3619 words



     ·    Prime Minister condemns sickening attack on a soldier in London
     ·    Reveals statement that two suspects were known to security services
     ·    Addressed nation after chairing emergency Cobra committee meeting
     ·    Paid tribute to Scout leader who confronted knife-wielding attacker
     ·    U-turn on banning troops from wearing uniforms in public
     ·    London Mayor Boris Johnson hints that attack is being treated as a
          one-off
     ·    Ex-security minister says it is difficult to prevent 'lone wolf'
          terrorists
     ·    The attack has been roundly condemned by political parties


David Cameron urged people to 'go about our normal lives' in response to the
brutal killing of a serving solider on the streets of London.

The Prime Minister today overruled a Ministry of Defence ban on troops wearing
uniforms in public, insisting Britain will not 'buckle' to terror.

In a strident statement outside Number 10 today, Mr Cameron said: 'The people
who did this were trying to divide us. They should know: something like this
will only bring us together and make us stronger.'

Scroll down for video and full statement

Mr Cameron said images from the horrific killing on a busy street in Woolwich
were 'deeply shocking'.

He said the family of the murdered solider are 'grieving for a loved one and we
have lost a brave solider'.

He said he could not comment on the detailed police investigation but vowed:
'This country will be absolutely resolute in its stand against extremism and
terror.

'We will never give in to terror or terrorism in any of its forms. This view is
shared by every community.'

Mr Cameron revealed that the two suspected killers were known to the security
services and promised that the authorities will investigate into whether the
attack could have been prevented.

'One of the best ways of defeating terrorism is to go about our normal lives.
And that is what we shall all do'                           Prime Minister David
Cameron

'As is the normal practice in these sorts of cases, the Independent Police
Complaints Commission will be able to review the actions of the police, and the
Intelligence and Security Committee will be able to do the same for the wider,'
he said.

'But nothing should be done to get in the way of their absolutely vital work.'

Government sources confirmed to MailOnline that the names of both suspects were
on a list maintained by the security services, but stressed it was unclear what
level of surveillance if any they were under.

In shocking video footage in the wake of the violence, one attacker with blood
on his hands was filmed declaring: 'We swear by almighty Allah we will never
stop fighting you.'

But Mr Cameron rejected the idea that the killing would ever be justified by the
Muslim community.

'This was not just an attack on Britain - and on our British way of life. It was
also a betrayal of Islam - and of the Muslim communities who are give so much to
our country.

'There is nothing in Islam that justifies this truly dreadful act. We will
defeat violent extremism by standing together, by backing our police and
security services and above all by challenging the poisonous narrative of
extremism on which this violence feeds.

'Britain works with our international partners to make the world safe from
terrorism. Terrorism that has taken more Muslim lives than any other religion.

'It is an utter perversion of the truth to pretend anything different. That is
why there is absolutely no justification for these acts and the fault for them
lies solely and purely with the sickening individuals who carried out this
appalling attack.'

Senior ministers, police and intelligence agencies gathered in Downing Street
this morning for a second meeting of the emergency Cobra committee to plot the
government's reaction to what is being treated as a terror attack.

The Cobra meeting was attended by Met commissioner Bernard Hogan Howe, deputy
commissioner Cressida Dick, Defence Secretary Philip Hammond, Communities
Secretary Eric Pickles, Faith Minister Baroness Warsi, London Mayor Boris
Johnson and the intelligence services.

Mr Cameron said it was 'natural' that questions would be asked about 'what
additional steps can be taken to keep us safe' but he added he was 'not in
favour of kneejerk responses'.

During the hour-long meeting there was an update from the police and agencies
into the ongoing investigation and an update from the MoD on protective
security.

It is understood military commanders last night issued guidance to all serving
personnel in London to not wear their uniforms in public.

Ministry of Defence sources said this had been part of an 'automatic' tightening
of security following a major incident.

Though the victim of the Woolwich atrocity was not in uniform, it is understood
he was wearing a Help for Heroes hooded top and carrying a military camouflaged
rucksack.

But Mr Cameron is thought to have intervened and troops are being told to wear
their uniforms as normal.

The Prime Minister used his personal Twitter account last night to issue the
defiant message: 'We will never buckle to terror.'

Colonel Richard Kemp, who commanded British forces in Afghanistan, said any
change to rule son uniforms would 'suggest we live in a state of fear of this
type of attack continuing'.

As the MoD formally confirmed the dead man was a serving soldier, Mr Hammond
said: 'I am shocked by the brutality of this cold-blooded murder of a serviceman
on the streets of London.

'We are co-operating with the Metropolitan Police in their investigation and
will take all steps necessary to protect our servicemen and women. My thoughts
are with the family and loved ones of the deceased.'

Chief of the Defence Staff General Sir David Richards said: 'I was appalled to
hear of this abhorrent crime committed against one of our servicemen.

'I add my voice to that of the rest of the country in condemning this foul act
and I extend my deepest sympathies to the family and loved ones of the victim
during this most distressing time.'

London Mayor Boris Johnson hinted that security services believe the horrific
attack was a one-off and do not expect a wave of similar killings.

He told reporters: 'Everything I am hearing leads me to think that Londoners can
go about their business in the normal way and we are going to bring the killers
to justice.'

Ahead of the talks Mr Cameron said he had received an update from Mr Hogan-Howe
on the 'sickening killing'.

During the hour-long meeting there was an update from the police and agencies
into the ongoing investigation and an update from the MOD on protective
security. There was a discussion about community cohesion.

A Downing Street spokesman said: 'The strength and unity of response from Muslim
community leaders was recognised and commended by ministers and others around
the table.'

Labour leader Ed Miliband, who has been briefed on the security situation by Mr
Cameron, backed the message of unity.

He said: 'This was an appalling and horrific murder and all of my condolences
are with the families and friends of the victim, and indeed with our troops
because they serve incredibly bravely all around the world and they've seen one
of their own murdered in an act of complete cowardice.

'There are people who try to divide us with acts like this. They've tried it
before in London and they've failed and they will always fail.;

The Prime Minister last night cancelled talks with French President Francois
Hollande in Paris to travel urgently to back to London to take charge of the
government's response.

Two men armed with knives repeatedly stabbed and tried to behead an off-duty
soldier in front of  dozens of passers-by on a crowded street in Woolwich, East
London yesterday afternoon.

Video footage shows one of the attackers with blood on his hands and clutching a
meat cleaver declaring: 'We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting
you.

'The only reason we have done this is because Muslims are dying every day. This
British soldier is an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.'

Arriving at Downing Street, Mr Johnson sought to counter claims made by the
attackers that the killing was the result of British troops serving in
Afghanistan.

He said: 'It is completely wrong to blame this killing on the religion of Islam.

'But it is also equally wrong to try to draw any link between this murder and
British foreign policy or the actions of British forces who are risking their
lives abroad for the sake of freedom.

'The fault lies wholly and exclusively in the warped and deluded mindset of the
people who did it'

BORIS JOHNSON: FOREIGN POLICY NOT TO BLAME FOR BRUTAL ATTACK

Boris Johnson arrived at Downing Street for the Cobra meeting with a warning
that the Woolwich knife attack must not be blamed on British foreign policy.

'It is completely wrong to blame this killing on the religion of Islam, but it
is also equally wrong to try to draw any link between this murder and British
foreign policy or the actions of British forces who are risking their lives
abroad for the sake of freedom.

'The fault lies wholly and exclusively in the warped and deluded mindset of the
people who did it.

'What we need now is, for the sake of the victim and the sake of his family, for
those killers to be brought to justice.

'I think I want to pay particular tribute, not just to the work of the police
and security services yesterday.

'But also, above all, to the people of Woolwich, who showed such exemplary
courage and bravery in a very difficult situation indeed.'

'The people of London should take their cue, from the behaviour of the people of
Woolwich yesterday, who showed such astonishing natural courage in dealing with
an appalling event, and who stood up to these killers.

'I think that that's the spirit of London, and that's what I would call upon
people to do today: go about their lives in the normal way.'

Baroness Neville-Jones, former chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee,
said the security services would examine whether the attack was carried out by a
'lone wolf' or by someone with further connections, either at home or abroad.

She told BBC Radio 4 she was 'inclined' to think the 'isolated attack... is
possibly more in the nature of a lone wolf'.

But she warned it is 'particularly hard to deal with because there are very few
outward signs beforehand of the nature the intelligence services can pick up'.

Colonel Richard Kemp, who commanded British forces in Afghanistan, said a ban on
uniforms in public would be wrong.

'As we saw in this case you don't need to have somebody in uniform, you just
need to have someone who knows a bit about soldiers and does a bit of
observation in the vicinity of a barracks and you can identify a soldier very
quickly,' he told the BBC.

'I think we should be right to think about ways of protecting ourselves better
but I think it would be wrong to suggest we live in a state of fear of this type
of attack continuing.

He also warned 'further attacks will be inspired by this type of attack'.

He said more resources needed to be put into the role of websites in
radicalising people. The security services should 'look very carefully at which
radical sites should be suppressed on the internet', he added.

Last night Mr Cameron described the attack as 'truly shocking' and 'the most
appalling crime'.

He had been at a Brussels summit before travelling to Paris but tore up his
schedule to receive a detailed telephone briefing on the latest from Woolwich
from Home Secretary Theresa May.

Mrs May last night chaired the first meeting of the Cobra emergency committee.

After being briefed by the head of Scotland Yard and the director of the
security services, she branded it a 'barbaric case', adding that 'there is a
strong indication that it was an act of terrorism'.

The Home Secretary added: 'This attack was an attack on everyone in the United
Kingdom, and it will be condemned by people from every community.

'Our thoughts and prayers tonight are with the victim and his family.

'We have seen terrorism on the streets of Britain before, and have always stood
firm against it. Despicable acts like these will not go unpunished.'

Mr Cameron gave a brief  press conference from the Elysee Palace before
returning to London last night. He said: 'People across Britain, people in every
community, I believe, will utterly condemn this attack.

DID YOU SEE THE BRUTAL ATTACK?

Did you witness the killing and take pictures or video?

Or do you know the men involved?

Email us: mailonlinepictures@dailymail.co.uk

Or call 0203 615 1866

'We have had these sorts of attacks before in our country and we never buckle in
the face of them.'

When news of the attack broke, he wrote on Twitter: 'The killing in Woolwich is
truly shocking.'

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg condemned a 'shocking and horrifying murder on
the streets of our capital'.

'The whole nation's thoughts will be with the family and friends of the victim
this evening.

'People across our country, whatever background they are from, will be united in
condemning this attack and we will stand together, as we always do, in our
response.'

Labour leader Ed Miliband cut short a visit to Germany to return to the UK. He
promised the Labour party would offer the government 'complete support' in
ensuring the killers 'face the full force of British justice'.

Mr Miliband said: 'This is a truly appalling murder which will shock the entire
country.

DAVID CAMERON: BRITAIN WILL NEVER BUCKLE TO TERRORISM

Britain will 'never buckle' in the face of terrorist incidents, David Cameron
vowed last night, as he condemned the 'absolutely sickening' killing in London.

'Iur thoughts should be with the victim, with their family, with their friends,'
the Prime Minister said.

'People across Britain, people in every community, I believe, will utterly
condemn this attack.

'We have had these sorts of attacks before in our country and we never buckle in
the face of them.'

Mr Cameron was speaking at a Paris press conference with French president
Francois Hollande but confirmed he would cut short the visit to return to the UK
tonight to chair a meeting of the Government's Cobra emergency committee in the
morning.

'It is the most appalling crime. We are obviously seeking, and the police are
urgently seeking the full facts about this case, but there are strong
indications that it is a terrorist incident.'

'All of my thoughts are with the family and friends of the victim. The British
people will be horrified by what has happened in Woolwich. They will be united
in believing that this terror on our streets cannot be allowed to stand.'

Other political leaders called for calm and warned against knee-jerk reactions
to the killing.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: 'We are all left horrified by this appalling
attack on the peaceful streets of London and our thoughts and prayers go out to
the family of the young man who was killed and those who were injured.

'I hope and believe that this is an isolated incident and appeal for calm in our
communities.'

A statement from the Muslim Council of Britain said: 'This is a truly barbaric
act that has no basis in Islam and we condemn this unreservedly.

'This attack on a member of the Armed Forces is dishonourable, and no cause
justifies this murder.

'This action will no doubt heighten tensions on the streets of the United
Kingdom.

'We call on all our communities, Muslim and non-Muslim, to come together in
solidarity to ensure the forces of hatred do not prevail.'

Tory vice-chairman Michael Fabricant wrote on Twitter: 'I do hope members of the
armed forces are not now advised to not wear uniforms in our streets for fear of
terror attacks.'

The Queen is said to be 'concerned' at the news of the attack and has asked to
be kept up to date on the latest developments, Buckingham Palace said.

However Respect MP George Galloway was condemned by critics after writing on
Twitter: 'This sickening atrocity in London is exactly what we are paying the
same kind of people to do in Syria.'

Leader of the far-Right BNP Nick Griffin claimed soldiers were 'safer on front
line than in London, that's the reality of mass immigration', adding: 'The
politicians who did this to Britain should hang.'

'Scout leader who confronted killer spoke for us all'

David Cameron today paid tribute to a Cub Scout leader who confronted one of the
Islamic fanatics after he had slaughtered a soldier in Woolwich.

The Prime Minister said the bravery Ingrid Loyau-Kennett showed how communities
will unite to defeat extremism in Britain.

The moment the fearless mother-of-two remonstrated with one of the killers,
whose hands were blood-soaked and still carried knives, was filmed in the
aftermath of the terror attack.

Today the suspect who gave a chilling rant to camera moments after the murder
was named online as British Nigerian Michael Adebolajo - who is known by the
Muslim name Mujahid.

48-year-old Ingrid Loyau-Kennett jumped off her bus when she saw the tragic
soldier's body lying in the south-east London street, checked his pulse and then
tried to talk to the men who hacked him to death.

After pleading with them to hand her the weapons, one told her: 'We want to
start a war in London tonight'.

She replied: 'Right now it is only you versus many people, you are going to
lose'.

Mr Cameron said: 'Confronting extremism is a job for us all. And the fact that
our communities will unite in doing this was vividly demonstrated by the brave
cub pack leader - Ingrid Loyau-Kennett.

'When told by the attacker that he wanted to start a war in London she replied
"You're going to lose. It's only you versus many." She spoke for us all.'

'Defeat extremism by standing together': PM's statement

What happened yesterday in Woolwich has sickened us all. On our televisions last
night - and in our newspapers this morning - we have all seen images that are
deeply shocking.

The people who did this were trying to divide us. They should know: something
like this will only bring us together and make us stronger.

Today our thoughts are with the victim - and with his family. They are grieving
for a loved one and we have lost a brave soldier.

This morning I have chaired a meeting of COBRA. And I want to thank the police
and security services for the incredible work they do to keep our country safe.

There are police investigations and security service operations underway - so
obviously there is a limit on what I can say.

But already a number of things are clear. First, this country will be absolutely
resolute in its stand against violent extremism and terror.

We will never give in to terror - or terrorism - in any of its forms. Second,
this view is shared by every community in our country.

This was not just an attack on Britain - and on our British way of life. It was
also a betrayal of Islam - and of the Muslim communities who are give so much to
our country.

There is nothing in Islam that justifies this truly dreadful act.

We will defeat violent extremism by standing together, by backing our police and
security services and above all by challenging the poisonous narrative of
extremism on which this violence feeds.

Britain works with our international partners to make the world safe from
terrorism. Terrorism that has taken more Muslim lives than any other religion.

It is an utter perversion of the truth to pretend anything different. That is
why there is absolutely no justification for these acts and the fault for them
lies solely and purely with the sickening individuals who carried out this
appalling attack.

Confronting extremism is a job for us all.  And the fact that our communities
will unite in doing this was vividly demonstrated by the brave cub pack leader -
Ingrid Loyau-Kennett - who confronted one of the attackers on the streets of
Woolwich yesterday afternoon.

When told by the attacker that he wanted to start a war in London she replied
"You're going to lose. It's only you versus many." She spoke for us all.

The Police and Security Services will follow every lead, turn over every piece
of evidence, make every connection and will not rest until we know every single
detail of what happened and we've brought all of those responsible to justice.

I know from three years as being Prime Minister that the police and intelligence
agencies work around the clock to keep us safe from violent extremists.

I watch their work every week. They do an outstanding job.  They show incredible
heroism, much of which can not be reported.

They have my staunch support and the support of the whole country.

The point that the two suspects in this horrific attack were known to the
security services has been widely reported.

You would not expect me to comment on this when a criminal investigation is
ongoing.

But what I can say is this. As is the normal practice in these sorts of cases,
the Independent Police Complaints Commission will be able to review the actions
of the police and the Intelligence and Security Committee will be able to do the
same for the wider agencies.

But nothing should be done to get in the way of their absolutely vital work.
After an event like this, it is natural that questions will be asked about what
additional steps can be taken to keep us safe.

I will make sure those questions are asked and answered. But I am not in favour
of knee-jerk responses.

The Police have responded with heightened security and activity - and that is
right. But one of the best ways of defeating terrorism is to go about our normal
lives.

And that is what we shall all do.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 12:25 PM GMT

'Terror attack will not divide us but makes us stronger': Cameron's vow as he
urges Britain to continue with normal life

BYLINE: MATT CHORLEY, MAILONLINE POLITICAL EDITOR and JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 3090 words



     ·    Prime Minister tells Cobra meeting that Britain must not 'buckle' to
          terror
     ·    Senior ministers, police and intelligence agencies met in Downing
          Street
     ·    London Mayor Boris Johnson hints that attack is being treated as a
          one-off
     ·    Ex-security minister says it is difficult to prevent 'lone wolf'
          terrorists
     ·    David Cameron to give statement later on the 'sickening' killing
     ·    Cancelled talks with French President Francois Hollande to return to
          UK
     ·    The attack has been roundly condemned by political parties


David Cameron urged people to 'go about our normal lives' in response to the
brutal killing of a serving solider on the streets of London.

The Prime Minister today overruled a Ministry of Defence ban on troops wearing
uniforms in public, insisting Britain will not 'buckle' to terror.

In a strident statement outside Number 10 today, Mr Cameron said: 'The people
who did this were trying to divide us. They should know something like this will
only bring us together and make us stronger.'

Mr Cameron said images from the horrific killing on a busy street in Woolwich
were 'deeply shocking'.

He said the family of the murdered solider are 'grieving for a loved one and we
have lost a brave solider'.

He said he could not comment on the detailed police investigation but vowed:
'This country will be absolutely resolute in its stand against extremism and
terror.

'We will never give in to terror or terrorism in any of its forms. This view is
shared by every community.'

Mr Cameron revealed that the two suspected killers were known to the security
services and promised that the authorities will investigate into whether the
attack could have been prevented.

'As is the normal practice in these sorts of cases, the Independent Police
Complaints Commission will be able to review the actions of the police, and the
Intelligence and Security Committee will be able to do the same for the wider,'
he said.

'But nothing should be done to get in the way of their absolutely vital work.'

In shocking video footage in the wake of the violence, one attacker with blood
on his hands was filmed declaring: 'We swear by almighty Allah we will never
stop fighting you.'

But Mr Cameron rejected the idea that the killing would ever be justified by the
Muslim community.

'This was not just an attack on Britain - and on our British way of life. It was
also a betrayal of Islam - and of the Muslim communities who are give so much to
our country.

'There is nothing in Islam that justifies this truly dreadful act. We will
defeat violent extremism by standing together, by backing our police and
security services and above all by challenging the poisonous narrative of
extremism on which this violence feeds.

'Britain works with our international partners to make the world safe from
terrorism. Terrorism that has taken more Muslim lives than any other religion.

'It is an utter perversion of the truth to pretend anything different. That is
why there is absolutely no justification for these acts and the fault for them
lies solely and purely with the sickening individuals who carried out this
appalling attack.'

Senior ministers, police and intelligence agencies gathered in Downing Street
this morning for a second meeting of the emergency Cobra committee to plot the
government's reaction to what is being treated as a terror attack.

During the hour-long meeting there was an update from the police and agencies
into the ongoing investigation and an update from the MoD on protective
security.

It is understood military commanders last night issued guidance to all serving
personnel in London to not wear their uniforms in public.

Ministry of Defence sources said this had been part of an 'automatic' tightening
of security following a major incident.

Though the victim of the Woolwich atrocity was not in uniform, it is understood
he was wearing a Help for Heroes hooded top and carrying a military camouflaged
rucksack.

But Mr Cameron intervened and troops are being told to wear their uniforms as
normal.

The Prime Minister used his personal Twitter account last night to issue the
defiant message: 'We will never buckle to terror.'

But Colonel Richard Kemp, who commanded British forces in Afghanistan, said any
change to rule son uniforms would 'suggest we live in a state of fear of this
type of attack continuing'.

The Cobra meeting was attended by Met commissioner Bernard Hogan Howe, deputy
commissioner Cressida Dick, Defence Secretary Philip Hammond, Communities
Secretary Eric Pickles, Faith Minister Baroness Warsi, London Mayor Boris
Johnson and the intelligence services.

Leaving Downing Street, Mr Johnson hinted that security services believe the
horrific attack was a one-off and do not expect a wave of similar killings.

DAVID CAMERON: BRITAIN WILL NEVER BUCKLE TO TERRORISM

Britain will 'never buckle' in the face of terrorist incidents, David Cameron
vowed last night, as he condemned the 'absolutely sickening' killing in London.

'Iur thoughts should be with the victim, with their family, with their friends,'
the Prime Minister said.

'People across Britain, people in every community, I believe, will utterly
condemn this attack.

'We have had these sorts of attacks before in our country and we never buckle in
the face of them.'

Mr Cameron was speaking at a Paris press conference with French president
Francois Hollande but confirmed he would cut short the visit to return to the UK
tonight to chair a meeting of the Government's Cobra emergency committee in the
morning.

'It is the most appalling crime. We are obviously seeking, and the police are
urgently seeking the full facts about this case, but there are strong
indications that it is a terrorist incident.'

He told reporters: 'Everything I am hearing leads me to think that Londoners can
go about their business in the normal way and we are going to bring the killers
to justice.'

Ahead of the talks Mr Cameron said he had received an update from Mr Hogan-Howe
on the 'sickening killing'.

During the hour-long meeting there was an update from the police and agencies
into the ongoing investigation and an update from the MOD on protective
security. There was a discussion about community cohesion.

A Downing Street spokesman said: 'The strength and unity of response from Muslim
community leaders was recognised and commended by Ministers and others around
the table.'

The Prime Minister last night cancelled talks with French President Francois
Hollande in Paris to travel urgently to back to London to take charge of the
government's response.

Two men armed with knives repeatedly stabbed and tried to behead an off-duty
soldier in front of  dozens of passers-by on a crowded street in Woolwich, East
London yesterday afternoon.

Video footage shows one of the attackers with blood on his hands and clutching a
meat cleaver declaring: 'We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting
you.

'The only reason we have done this is because Muslims are dying every day. This
British soldier is an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.'

Arriving at Downing Street, Mr Johnson sought to counter claims made by the
attackers that the killing was the result of British troops serving in
Afghanistan.

He said: 'It is completely wrong to blame this killing on the religion of Islam.

'But it is also equally wrong to try to draw any link between this murder and
British foreign policy or the actions of British forces who are risking their
lives abroad for the sake of freedom.

'The fault lies wholly and exclusively in the warped and deluded mindset of the
people who did it'

Baroness Neville-Jones, former chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee,
said the security services would examine whether the attack was carried out by a
'lone wolf' or by someone with further connections, either at home or abroad.

She told BBC Radio 4 she was 'inclined' to think the 'isolated attack... is
possibly more in the nature of a lone wolf'.

But she warned it is 'particularly hard to deal with because there are very few
outward signs beforehand of the nature the intelligence services can pick up'.

Colonel Richard Kemp, who commanded British forces in Afghanistan, said a ban on
uniforms in public would be wrong.

'As we saw in this case you don't need to have somebody in uniform, you just
need to have someone who knows a bit about soldiers and does a bit of
observation in the vicinity of a barracks and you can identify a soldier very
quickly,' he told the BBC.

'I think we should be right to think about ways of protecting ourselves better
but I think it would be wrong to suggest we live in a state of fear of this type
of attack continuing.

BORIS JOHNSON: FOREIGN POLICY NOT TO BLAME FOR BRUTAL ATTACK

Boris Johnson arrived at Downing Street for the Cobra meeting with a warning
that the Woolwich knife attack must not be blamed on British foreign policy.

'It is completely wrong to blame this killing on the religion of Islam, but it
is also equally wrong to try to draw any link between this murder and British
foreign policy or the actions of British forces who are risking their lives
abroad for the sake of freedom.

'The fault lies wholly and exclusively in the warped and deluded mindset of the
people who did it.

'What we need now is, for the sake of the victim and the sake of his family, for
those killers to be brought to justice.

'I think I want to pay particular tribute, not just to the work of the police
and security services yesterday.

'But also, above all, to the people of Woolwich, who showed such exemplary
courage and bravery in a very difficult situation indeed.'

'The people of London should take their cue, from the behaviour of the people of
Woolwich yesterday, who showed such astonishing natural courage in dealing with
an appalling event, and who stood up to these killers.

'I think that that's the spirit of London, and that's what I would call upon
people to do today: go about their lives in the normal way.'

He also warned 'further attacks will be inspired by this type of attack'.

He said more resources needed to be put into the role of websites in
radicalising people. The security services should 'look very carefully at which
radical sites should be suppressed on the internet', he added.

Last night Mr Cameron described the attack as 'truly shocking' and 'the most
appalling crime'.

He had been at a Brussels summit before travelling to Paris but tore up his
schedule to receive a detailed telephone briefing on the latest from Woolwich
from Home Secretary Theresa May.

Mrs May last night chaired the first meeting of the Cobra emergency committee.

After being briefed by the head of Scotland Yard and the director of the
security services, she branded it a 'barbaric case', adding that 'there is a
strong indication that it was an act of terrorism'.

The Home Secretary added: 'This attack was an attack on everyone in the United
Kingdom, and it will be condemned by people from every community.

'Our thoughts and prayers tonight are with the victim and his family.

'We have seen terrorism on the streets of Britain before, and have always stood
firm against it. Despicable acts like these will not go unpunished.'

Mr Cameron gave a brief  press conference from the Elysee Palace before
returning to London last night. He said: 'People across Britain, people in every
community, I believe, will utterly condemn this attack.

'We have had these sorts of attacks before in our country and we never buckle in
the face of them.'

When news of the attack broke, he wrote on Twitter: 'The killing in Woolwich is
truly shocking.'

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg condemned a 'shocking and horrifying murder on
the streets of our capital'.

'The whole nation's thoughts will be with the family and friends of the victim
this evening.

'People across our country, whatever background they are from, will be united in
condemning this attack and we will stand together, as we always do, in our
response.'

Labour leader Ed Miliband cut short a visit to Germany to return to the UK.

He promised the Labour party would offer the government 'complete support' in
ensuring the killers 'face the full force of British justice'.

DID YOU SEE THE BRUTAL ATTACK?

Did you witness the killing and take pictures or video?

Or do you know the men involved?

Email us: mailonlinepictures@dailymail.co.uk

Or call 0203 615 1866

Mr Miliband said: 'This is a truly appalling murder which will shock the entire
country.

'All of my thoughts are with the family and friends of the victim. The British
people will be horrified by what has happened in Woolwich. They will be united
in believing that this terror on our streets cannot be allowed to stand.'

Other political leaders called for calm and warned against knee-jerk reactions
to the killing.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: 'We are all left horrified by this appalling
attack on the peaceful streets of London and our thoughts and prayers go out to
the family of the young man who was killed and those who were injured.

'I hope and believe that this is an isolated incident and appeal for calm in our
communities.'

A statement from the Muslim Council of Britain said: 'This is a truly barbaric
act that has no basis in Islam and we condemn this unreservedly.

'This attack on a member of the Armed Forces is dishonourable, and no cause
justifies this murder.

'This action will no doubt heighten tensions on the streets of the United
Kingdom.

GALLOWAY TWEETS CONDEMNED

Respect MP George Galloway was condemned by critics after writing on Twitter:
'This sickening atrocity in London is exactly what we are paying the same kind
of people to do in Syria.'

'We call on all our communities, Muslim and non-Muslim, to come together in
solidarity to ensure the forces of hatred do not prevail.'

Tory vice-chairman Michael Fabricant wrote on Twitter: 'I do hope members of the
armed forces are not now advised to not wear uniforms in our streets for fear of
terror attacks.'

The Queen is said to be 'concerned' at the news of the attack and has asked to
be kept up to date on the latest developments, Buckingham Palace said.

However Respect MP George Galloway was condemned by critics after writing on
Twitter: 'This sickening atrocity in London is exactly what we are paying the
same kind of people to do in Syria.'

Leader of the far-Right BNP Nick Griffin claimed soldiers were 'safer on front
line than in London, that's the reality of mass immigration', adding: 'The
politicians who did this to Britain should hang.'

WE DEFEAT EXTREMISM BY STANDING TOGETHER: CAMERON'S STATEMENT

What happened yesterday in Woolwich has sickened us all. On our televisions last
night - and in our newspapers this morning - we have all seen images that are
deeply shocking.

The people who did this were trying to divide us. They should know: something
like this will only bring us together and make us stronger.

Today our thoughts are with the victim - and with his family. They are grieving
for a loved one and we have lost a brave soldier.

This morning I have chaired a meeting of COBRA. And I want to thank the police
and security services for the incredible work they do to keep our country safe.

There are police investigations and security service operations underway - so
obviously there is a limit on what I can say.

But already a number of things are clear. First, this country will be absolutely
resolute in its stand against violent extremism and terror.

We will never give in to terror - or terrorism - in any of its forms. Second,
this view is shared by every community in our country.

This was not just an attack on Britain - and on our British way of life. It was
also a betrayal of Islam - and of the Muslim communities who are give so much to
our country.

There is nothing in Islam that justifies this truly dreadful act.

We will defeat violent extremism by standing together, by backing our police and
security services and above all by challenging the poisonous narrative of
extremism on which this violence feeds.

Britain works with our international partners to make the world safe from
terrorism. Terrorism that has taken more Muslim lives than any other religion.

It is an utter perversion of the truth to pretend anything different. That is
why there is absolutely no justification for these acts and the fault for them
lies solely and purely with the sickening individuals who carried out this
appalling attack.

Confronting extremism is a job for us all. And the fact that our communities
will unite in doing this was vividly demonstrated by the brave cub pack leader -
Ingrid Loyau-Kennett - who confronted one of the attackers on the streets of
Woolwich yesterday afternoon.

When told by the attacker that he wanted to start a war in London she replied
"You're going to lose. It's only you versus many." She spoke for us all.

The Police and Security Services will follow every lead, turn over every piece
of evidence, make every connection and will not rest until we know every single
detail of what happened and we've brought all of those responsible to justice.

I know from three years as being Prime Minister that the police and intelligence
agencies work around the clock to keep us safe from violent extremists.

I watch their work every week. They do an outstanding job.  They show incredible
heroism, much of which can not be reported.

They have my staunch support and the support of the whole country.

The point that the two suspects in this horrific attack were known to the
security services has been widely reported.

You would not expect me to comment on this when a criminal investigation is
ongoing.

But what I can say is this. As is the normal practice in these sorts of cases,
the Independent Police Complaints Commission will be able to review the actions
of the police and the Intelligence and Security Committee will be able to do the
same for the wider agencies.

But nothing should be done to get in the way of their absolutely vital work.
After an event like this, it is natural that questions will be asked about what
additional steps can be taken to keep us safe.

I will make sure those questions are asked and answered. But I not in favour of
knee-jerk responses.

The Police have responded with heightened security and activity - and that is
right. But one of the best ways of defeating terrorism is to go about our normal
lives.

And that is what we shall all do.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  News Shopper

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Woolwich terror attack: Day 2 of news and reaction after soldier's murder

SECTION: NEWS NEWS

LENGTH: 113 words


One neighbour in Eastney Street, who did not want to be named, told News
Shopper: "This morning I heard some noise and I came through to the kitchen and
saw two policemen. They were walking with a young guy with handcuffs on.

"I went through to the other side of the house and I saw lots of policemen with
balaclavas and rifles."

Another said: "My son was up because he was studying for an exam and he told me
there was something happening

"I looked outside and I saw two policemen with guns."

She said: "The family are a mixed race family. There's a son who's round the age
of 19 or 20 and a mum and a daughter."

%brightcove('2403515231001', name="standard", width="300", height="255")

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  News Shopper

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Woolwich terror attack - four arrests following Lee Rigby soldier murder

BYLINE: Mark Chandler

SECTION: NEWS NEWS

LENGTH: 283 words


DETECTIVES have arrested two more people today (May 23) following the murder of
Drummer Lee Rigby in Woolwich.

A 29-year-old man and 29-year-old woman have both been arrested by Counter
Terrorism officers on suspicion of conspiracy to murder.

Two men who were shot at the scene, aged 22 and 28, have both been arrested on
suspicion of murder. One is believed to be named Michael Adebolajo.

They remain in separate London hospitals and are both in a stable condition.
Their injuries are not life threatening.

Search warrants have been executed at six residential addresses - three in south
London including Eastney Street in Greenwich, one in east London, one in north
London and one in Lincoln. The searches are ongoing.

A spokesman for the Met said: "This is a large, complex and fast-moving
investigation which continues to develop.

"Many lines of inquiry are being followed by detectives and the investigation is
progressing well.

"Officers have been gathering information from witnesses, social media and a
painstaking trawl of CCTV footage in the area is taking place.

"Forensic experts and specialist search officers have been carrying out a
detailed examination of the scene in Woolwich. A number of items have been
recovered from the scene.

"We are still appealing for anyone who may have witnessed the incident in
Woolwich to contact police via the Anti-Terrorist Hotline on 0800 789321.

"We urge anyone who filmed or took photos as events unfolded in John Wilson
Street to send them to police via woolwich@metincident.co.uk - please include
your name and contact details, which will be treated in strictest confidence.
Anyone who may have such material is asked not to delete it after sending it
in."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Man in street dies in 'terrorist' attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 391 words


BRITAIN will "never buckle" in the face of terrorism, David Cameron vowed as he
condemned the "absolutely sickening" killing in London. "Our thoughts should be
with the victim, with their family, with their friends," said the Prime
Minister.

"People across Britain, people in every community, I believe, will utterly
condemn this attack.

"We have had these sorts of attacks before in our country and we never buckle in
the face of them."

The horrific attack happened in Woolwich when two suspected terrorists "brutally
murdered" a man in the street, prompting a major emergency response from the
Gover nment.

One Whitehall source said the attackers, who are now being treated in hospital
after being shot by police, were heard to shout 'Allah Akbar' during the assault
in south-east London.

Witnesses said the victim, who a local MP said was believed to be a soldier, was
hacked to death, with some suggesting his attackers tried to behead him.
Unconfirmed reports said they also filmed the attack.

Mr Cameron was speaking at a Paris press conference with French president
Francois Hollande but confirmed he would cut short the visit to return to the UK
overnight to chair a meeting of the Government's Cobra emergency committee this
morning.

"I have been briefed by the Home Secretary about this absolutely sickening
attack. "It is the most appalling crime. We are obviously seeking, and the
police are urgently seeking the full facts about this case, but there are strong
indications that it is a terrorist incident."

"We will look at every aspect of security, we will look at every aspect of what
you can learn from these incidents.

"But we also have to remember that in a free country like ours, the best way to
defeat terrorism is to make sure that you continue to go about your life, to
live your life and show that terrorists can never win, and that's important."

President Hollande said he wanted to "express all of my solidarity to David
Cameron and the United Kingdom after the murder of the British soldier in London
earlier today. "We must fight terrorism everywhere. It requires that we share
our intelligence, that our intelligence services work together and that we act
everywhere we can."

Home Secretary Theresa May said: "It has been confirmed to me that a man has
been brutally murdered in south-east London. Two other men were shot by police."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Security: Police on guard in Woolwich, London.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2013 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: LONDON

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 12:08 PM BST

TERROR ATTACK HELPS UNITE UK: PM

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 690 words


The brutal terrorist murder of a ``brave soldier'' on the streets of London will
bring the UK together and ``make us stronger'', David Cameron declared.

Speaking outside Downing Street after chairing a meeting of the Government's
emergency Cobra committee, the Prime Minister said the attack ``sickens us all''
and was a ``betrayal of Islam''.

``The people who did this were trying to divide us. They should know something
like this will only bring us together and make us stronger,'' he said.

``This country will be absolutely resolute in its stand against violent
extremism and terror. We will never give in to terror or terrorism in any of its
forms.

``This view is shared by every community in our country. This was not just an
attack on Britain and on the British way of life; it was also a betrayal of
Islam and of the Muslim communities who give so much to our country.

``There is nothing in Islam that justifies this truly dreadful act.''

He said the best response was for everyone to ``go about our normal lives''

Mr Cameron cut short an official visit to Paris to return to the UK to
co-ordinate the Government's response.

Speaking after meeting with police and intelligence chiefs, he said: ``What
happened yesterday in Woolwich has sickened us all. On our televisions last
night and in our newspapers this morning, we have all seen images that are
deeply shocking.

``Our thoughts are with the victim and with his family. They are grieving for
their loved one and we have lost a brave soldier.''

Mr Cameron cautioned against ``knee-jerk responses'' to the outrage.

Troops in London were advised in the immediate aftermath of the attack not to
wear their uniforms outside their bases.

But the Cobra meeting agreed that issuing orders against wearing military
uniforms in public would not be the right response.

``After an event like this it is natural that questions will be asked about what
additional steps can be taken to keep us safe,'' Mr Cameron said.

``I will make sure those questions are asked and answered but I am not in favour
of knee-jerk responses.

``The police have responded with heightened security and activity and that is
right.

``But one of the best ways of defeating terrorism is to go about our normal
lives and that is what we shall all do.''

Mr Cameron said he could not comment on reports that the two men were known to
the security services.

``The point that the two suspects in this horrific attack were known to the
security services has been widely reported, you would not expect me to comment
on this when a criminal investigation is ongoing.

``But what I can say is this, as is the normal practice in these sorts of cases
the Independent Police Complaints Commission will be able to review the actions
of the police and the Intelligence and Security Committee will be able to do the
same for the wider agencies.

``But nothing should be done to get in the way of their absolutely vital work.''

The police and security services will not stop until ``every single detail'' of
what happened is clear, Mr Cameron said.

``The police and security services will follow every lead, will turn over every
piece of evidence, will make every connection and will not rest until we know
every single detail of what happened and we have brought all of those
responsible to justice.

``I know from three years of being Prime Minister that the police and
intelligence services work around the clock to keep us safe from violent
extremists.

``I watch their work every week, they do an outstanding job.

``They show incredible heroism, much of which cannot be reported.

``They have my staunch support and the support of the whole country.''

He hailed the bravery of Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, who confronted one of the
killers, saying she ``spoke for us all''.

``Confronting extremism is a job for us all. And the fact that our communities
will unite in doing this was vividly demonstrated by the brave Cub pack leader
Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, who confronted one of the attackers on the streets of
Woolwich.

``When told by the attacker he wanted to start a war in London she replied
you're going to lose, it is only you versus many.

``She spoke for us all.'' end

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2013 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BUTCHERED IN AL LAH'S NAME;
Police shoot two suspects in terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 1078 words


TERRORISM returned to the streets of London yesterday as two suspected Muslim
fanatics butchered a man in broad daylight in the name of "Allah".

One of the suspects behind the barbaric killing, near the Royal Artillery
Barracks in Woolwich, was filmed wielding a bloodied meat cleaver, saying: "We
swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you."

Security was last night stepped up at military barracks across London, as
eyewitnesses and others close to the area said the victim, pronounced dead
immediately, was a serving British soldier.

Metropolitan Police officers called to the terrifying scenes opened fire and
shot the suspects, who were rushed to nearby hospitals, where one was last night
said to be in a serious condition.

Prime Minister David Cameron described the attack as "truly shocking" while the
Home Secretary Theresa May said it was "sickening and barbaric".

After it became clear through eyewitness accounts that the attackers had
political and religious motives, the Government held a so-called Cobra emergency
response meeting.

In a chilling development, footage emerged of one of the suspected killers,
apparently explaining his terrifying actions.

In the clip, obtained by ITV News, he is heard to say: "We must fight them as
they fight us. An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.

"I apologise that women have had to witness this today, but in our land our
women have to see the same. You people will never be safe. Remove your
government, they don't care about you."

In an extended version running online last night, the man adds: "You think David
Cameron is going to get caught in the street when we start bussin' our guns? You
think politicians are going to die? "No it's going to be the average guy, like
you, and your children.

"So get rid of them. Tell them to bring our troops back so you can all live in
peace."

The attacker, who spoke clear English without a foreign accent, is then seen
walking towards the victim, who is lying in the street. Another man is standing
by a car that has collided with a road sign.

At a press conference in Paris, the Prime Minister said Britain has faced such
terror attacks before and added: "We will never buckle in the face of it."

In expressing solidarity with the PM, French president Francois Hollande
referred to the murdered man as a "British soldier".

The Prime Minister, who was originally planning to stay in Paris, was returning
to the UK last night.

Footage and pictures showed a frenzied scene at the junction of John Wilson
Street and Artillery Place in Woolwich.

Some images show three men lying scattered in the street, surrounded by
discarded weapons and splashes of blood.

Eyewitnesses huddled behind a police cordon as around 30 to 40 officers secured
the scene, just around the corner from Mulgrave Primary School.

Woolwich and Greenwich MP Nick Raynsford said it was his understanding that the
dead man was a serving soldier. He said he had spoken to both borough commander
Richard Wood and Lieutenant Colonel Bob Christopher at Woolwich Barracks.

Mr Raynsford said: "It's been suggested it was the product of a road traffic
accident, but that's pure speculation.

"I'll be talking to everyone who is involved, we will be trying to do everything
possible to try and ensure calm in the area. People will be very, very shocked."

One witness, identified as James Heneghan, said he and his partner saw two men
attack a young man aged around 20 in a Help for Heroes T-shirt with kitchen
knives like he was "a piece of meat".

"They were hacking at this poor guy, literally," he told LBC radio. "They were
hacking at him, chopping him, cutting him."

The Cobra meeting, which lasted around an hour, heard that security had been
tightened at Woolwich barracks and increased at all London barracks, Downing
Street said.

The meeting lasted just under an hour and was attended by the Home Secretary,
Defence Secretary Philip Hammond, Mayor of London Boris Johnson, Met
Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, Met Assistant Commissioner Cressida Dick
and intelligence agencies.

The meeting was told there were strong indications that it was a terrorist
incident.

Other leading figures came forward to express their horror and offer sympathies
to the victim's families. A Buckingham Palace spokesman said: "The Queen is of
course concerned by the report of an attack in Woolwich earlier today. Her
Majesty is being kept informed."

The spokesman also confirmed the Queen will visit the King's Troop Royal Horse
Artillery at Woolwich barracks on May 31, which was planned before today's
attack.

Ed Miliband MP, Leader of the Labour Party, said: "This is a truly appalling
murder which will shock the entire country."

London Ambulance Service confirmed a man was found dead at the scene, while two
other men were taken to hospital, one of them in a serious condition.

John Wilson Street was shut in both directions between Artillery Place and New
Ferry Approach.

Eyewitnesses took to Twitter to recount the horrific events.

One user, using the account @Boyadee, wrote of seeing two men decapitate another
man in front of him as he went to a nearby shop.

He described two men waiting for the police to arrive and then going towards
officers with "just two machete and an old revolver".

The incident occurred some 200 yards from the Royal Artillery Barracks, adjacent
to Woolwich Common, the historical home of the Royal Artillery.

The barracks, also known as the Woolwich station, now houses a number of the
King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery and independent companies of the Grenadier
and Coldstream Guards.

Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford confirmed last night that the two
attackers were shot by armed officers.

He said in a statement: "A number of weapons were reportedly being used in the
attack, and this included reports of a firearm." He added: "Two men, who we
believe from early reports to have been carrying weapons, were shot by police.
They were taken to separate London hospitals. They are receiving treatment for
their injuries." The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) has started
an investigation in to the circumstances surrounding the shootings.

Help for Heroes, the charity whose T-shirt witnesses said the victim was
wearing, said: "Help for Heroes is appalled to hear that a man, believed to be a
serving soldier, has been brutally murdered in Woolwich.

"We are desperately saddened to hear of this sickening attack and offer our
thoughts and prayers to his family, colleagues and friends."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Horrified passers-by watch the horrifying drama unfold
¦ Above and below, police and ambulance crews cordon off the scene of the savage
attack yesterday
An image from news footage reportedly showing the two suspects and the body of
their victim in the road near Woolwich Barracks yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 11:47 PM GMT

Graphic: terrorist attacks by al-Qaeda, Islamist and Islamic terrorist groups,
2001 - 2011;
The 9/11 attacks marked the start of an unprecedented period of Islamist terror
attacks. This graphic charts global terror attacks from September 11 to the May
2013 Woolwich machete attack in London.

BYLINE: By Conrad Quilty-Harper Harriet Alexander and Barney Henderson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 217 words


The September 11 attacks                      on America was by no means the
first act of terrorism carried out in the name of Islam. The 1993 World Trade
Center bombings killed six, while the 1998 US embassy bombings of Dar es Salaam,
Tanzania, and Nairobi, Kenya, left 223 people dead.

However, the scale, horror and repercussions of 9/11 - 2,996 people dead, the
World Trade Center destroyed and the Pentagon attacked - set it apart as a
seminal moment that changed the course of history. It caused the US-led
invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq as part of the "War on Terror".

Subsequently, Islamist terrorists attacked Madrid in 2004, London in 2005 and
Mumbai in 2008, among many other lethal and devastating attacks. The most recent
high profile act of terrorism was the May 2013 machete attack in Woolwich
London, that left a British soldier dead.

Using data from the Global Terrorism Database, this graphic highlights the most
high profile terror attacks since 9/11 and also indicates where in the world the
majority of Islamic terror attacks have occurred. The data is meant to act as a
guide, and there may be omissions.

South Asia and the Middle East have suffered the most attacks, while in South
America, there were no Islamic terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 11:22 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: the terrorist's rant;
Here is the full text of the rant by one of the Islamist terrorists involved in
yesterday's brutal murder of a British soldier. The words were delivered calmly
as a witness filmed him on their video phone.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 253 words


Woolwich attack: latest

"The only reason we have killed this man today is because Muslims are dying
daily by British soldiers.

"And this British soldier is one. It is an eye for an eye and a tooth for a
tooth.

"By Allah, we swear by the almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you until
you leave us alone.

"So what if we want to live by the Sharia in Muslim lands? Why does that mean
you must follow us and chase us and call us extremists and kill us?

"Rather you lot are extreme. You are the ones that when you drop a bomb you
think it hits one person?

"Or rather your bomb wipes out a whole family?

"This is the reality. By Allah if I saw your mother today with a buggy I would
help her up the stairs. This is my nature...

"Through many passages in the (Arabic) Koran we must fight them as they fight
us.

"An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.

"I apologise that women had to witness this today but in our lands women have to
see the same.

"You people will never be safe. Remove your governments, they don't care about
you.

"You think David Cameron is going to get caught in the street when we start
busting our guns?

"You think politicians are going to die?

"No, it's going to be the average guy, like you and your children.

"So get rid of them. Tell them to bring our troops back so can all live in
peace.

"So leave our lands and we can all live in peace.

"That's all I have to say.

"Allah's peace and blessings be upon you."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 10:59 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: My ex-boyfriend the terror suspect was a 'lovely, polite boy';

The former girlfriend of one of the Woolwich terror attack suspects is a
hairdresser who claims to have been shortlisted as the "Face of Essex".

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 240 words


Justine Rigden, 26, who works for a salon in Hornchurch, is understood to have
dated Michael Adebolajo when he was in his teens.

A friend said she went out with him when he was known by friends as "Narn" and
before he adopted radical Islamist views.

Miss Rigden, pictured left, told a newspaper: "He was really friendly and really
polite, and there was never anything to suggest he would be caught up with
anything like this. He was just a lovely, polite boy. He stayed at my family's
house and I stayed with his. He was a very family-oriented person.

"He had a group of friends from Hackney. They weren't 'wrong uns', they were OK,
and he used to do a bit of MC-ing, rapping. Nobody can believe it. He was just
this normal, regular boy."

In a video posted on YouTube, the stylist says she admires Jennifer Lopez,
because she is a "role model for real women with curves".

School friends of Adebolajo say he lived a Western lifestyle in his teens,
growing up in Essex, but that his parents moved away to try to keep him out of
trouble.

Pictures on Miss Rigden's Facebook social-networking site showed her modelling
in photo shoots, before the page was taken down from the internet last night.
She claimed on the page to have been shortlisted for the title Face of Essex.

Her profile on the website of the hair salon where she works describes her as an
"enthusiastic member of the team who will make you feel valued the moment you
walk in the door".

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 9:57 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: Somalian terrorists warn Britain: 'Your chickens are coming
home to roost';
Britain was warned to expect further terrorist outrages as an Islamist group in
Somalia said the chickens were "coming home to roost".

BYLINE: By Zoe Flood Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 472 words


Al Shabaab, which is thought to have links with one of the suspected Woolwich
terrorists, launched a tirade on Twitter accusing Britain of carrying out
countless abuses against innocent Muslims.

In one message posted on its official Twitter account, an al-Shabaab spokesman
described the murder of Drummer Lee Rigby as the "death of the wretched Kafir"
and said it was "insignificant compared to the deaths of hundreds of innocent
Muslims at the hands of British soldiers".

Referring to the Boston bombing, another posting warned: "Where next? You just
have to grin and bear it, it's inevitable. A case of the chickens coming home to
roost."

Speculation was mounting that the postings, peppered with English phrases, were
being written by a Briton.

Seizing on comments by David Cameron that the attack was a "betrayal of Islam",
al-Shabaab said that in fact it was a "portrayal of Islam".

The tirade went on: "What Cameron describes as a 'sickening' attack is what
innocent Muslim woman and children are subjected to every day by British troops.
Don't expect Muslims to simply turn the other cheek.

"The British Army has a woeful record of abuses against unarmed Muslims across
the globe. It's an eye for an eye, so you can lump it."

One of the suspects in the attack, Michael Adebolajo, is thought to have tried
to travel to Somalia, possibly to join al-Shabaab, security sources claim.

The shadowy militants who control large areas of the country have welcomed
foreigners to their ranks.

Estimates of the number of foreign fighters in al-Shabaab vary widely, but a
report released last year by the Royal United Services Institute suggested that
about 50 Britons were believed to be fighting in Somalia.

Many are likely to be of Somali origin, but Muslim converts from some Western
nations are believed to have links with al-Shabaab.

Last year intelligence experts warned that Britons were being recruited to fight
for the militant group and that Somalia was becoming a vital training ground for
British jihadis. Kenyan police believe Jermaine Grant, on trial in Mombasa on
charges of possessing explosives, has links to the militants.

His accomplice Samantha Lewthwaite is on the run, with some reports suggesting
that she has crossed into Somalia.

Lewthwaite, who faces the same charges as Grant, is the widow of the 7/7 King's
Cross bomber Germaine Lindsay.

"The ideology of the Shabaab is a threat to the world," Hassan Sheikh Mohamud,
the president of Somalia, told The Telegraph earlier this month.

"It has been proven there has been a link between Shabaab and elements in the UK
... I will not rule out that there is element with the Shabaab ideology in the
UK and once that element is there in the UK the risk and the threat is there."

Al-Qaeda chief Ayman al-Zawahiri formally welcomed al-Shabaab to the terror
network's ranks last year.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 9:55 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: When extremists are below the radar;
Terrorist killings such as this week's in Woolwich might be hard to predict -
but that is no reason for panic

BYLINE: By Alan Judd

LENGTH: 1279 words


'Terrorism is theatre, terrorists want a lot of people watching, not a lot of
people dead," wrote the American researcher Brian Jenkins in 1975. It was as
true then as two days ago in Woolwich, when the murderers of Lee Rigby hung
around after their crime to speak into cameras about what they had done. What we
must do now is deny them the significance and glory they crave. Yet, by our
reactions, we're in danger of doing the opposite.

Terrorists have many causes but they generally share a common purpose, which is
to terrorise rather than annihilate, choreographing their violence to spread
fear and alarm, so as to provoke us into overreacting in a way that feeds their
distorted moral universe of justification. This is particularly true in Western
democracies, where anxious governments and media combine in an unintended
magnification of the terrorist effect.

It took one man to be hacked to death on a London street this week for the Prime
Minister to curtail an important overseas trip and announce an emergency COBR.
David Cameron is good in crises, and he spoke with authority and moderation, but
the acronym COBR is itself a telling example of magnification. It stands for
Cabinet Office Briefing Room, and the noun it has become - usually extended to
COBRA - refers to meetings in it. It sounds so much more dramatic to proclaim a
COBR than to describe what is actually happening - that ministers and officials
are having a meeting. By further dramatising what is already dramatic, we grant
the terrorists a further victory, enhancing the audience they can shock and
frighten. Because it is us, the audience, who are their real targets. Their
unfortunate victims are their means to get at us.

People are stabbed to death all too frequently on London's streets without
disrupting the prime ministerial programme. Three years ago a schoolboy was
hacked to death by a mob of 20 within shouting distance of this newspaper's
office, an outrage that arguably indicates deeper troubles in our society than
an occasional terrorist incident, but it caused no COBR. Why is it that we react
as we do? Is it politically possible to react differently, and is this latest
terrorist murder the type of things to come, more difficult for the police and
intelligence agencies to counter than larger, more organised outrages?

Essentially, governments feel they have to be seen to react, because terrorism
is a challenge to their authority in a way that "ordinary" crime isn't. A
terrorist incident reminds us that the fundamental purpose of, and justification
for, government is not to welfare everybody or to promote fairness or equality
but to maintain the peace, without which there can be no civil society.
Terrorism, whether it kills few or many, is a deliberate affront to that peace.
So there probably is no alternative to public reaction - David Cameron has to be
seen to be in charge, as he clearly is. The key is not to overreact and create
that which we fear - a genuine existential threat.

We did just that in the early years of the so-called War on Terror (a phrase
first used, incidentally, not by George Bush but by Russian president Vladimir
Putin in relation to Chechyna). Al-Qaeda undoubtedly was a very serious threat
even before 9/11, but our reactions to it afterwards gave it an apparent
coherence and potency it never actually achieved. We treated it as if it were a
state, like us, rather than a gang of fanatics and criminals who were always a
greater threat to Muslim states than to the West, and who killed many more
Muslims than non-Muslims.

The same inflationary logic of reaction drives terrorists. They have to kill
ever more in order to continue to attract attention and to persuade themselves
they have strategic momentum, especially if - as with al-Qaeda and its
sympathisers - their political aspirations are unrealisable.

In the 1960s, when modern trans-national terrorism began, casualties per
terrorist incident tended to be in single figures. During the 1970s, casualties
in the tens became more common, while the worst incidents in the 1980s and 1990s
were in the hundreds. There have been roughly 19 terrorist outrages causing
casualties in three figures or more over the past 25 to 30 years (only 9/11
reached four figures).

Yet the message that rarely gets through to terrorists is that terrorism almost
always fails. In her seminal book, How Terrorism Ends, Audrey Cronin - another
American researcher - argues that fewer than 5 per cent of terrorist campaigns
end because they succeed and that there is no known case of a small terrorist
group taking power in a modern state. Your chances of being killed by terrorists
- never great - are thankfully getting less, with a peak of something like
22,000 deaths worldwide in 2007 (including Iraq), declining to about 12,533 in
2011. This compares with accidental deaths worldwide of an estimated 2 million a
year. If terrorism were a disease and we were the National Institute for
Clinical Excellence, we wouldn't spend much money on it.

But it goes on, as we saw with this week's peculiarly revolting and pointless
bit of butchery. We'll learn in due course whether this incident was in any way
a new departure, but early indications are that we have been here before. The
involvement of a convert to Islam is unsurprising - converts feature more
commonly among extremist groups than among the Muslim population as a whole -
and the words of "justification" reportedly spoken by one of the murderers - "We
have done this because Muslims are dying by British soldiers" - echo those of
Mohammed Sidique Khan, leader of the 7/7 London bombings, and of Roshonara
Choudhry, who attempted to murder MP Stephen Timms. The weapons used are
probably a reflection of the increasing difficulty in sourcing bomb-making
materials in Britain and of the fact that few terrorists make effective bombs
without training.

As for what radicalised them, the ethos of the banned extremist group
al-Muhajiroun is widely shared by violent and non-violent extremists alike. What
we need to know is precisely how they were radicalised - whether by individuals
they met in person, or over the internet, or by DVDs of radical preachers or
(perhaps less likely) in extremist mosques. Speculation so far is that they were
self-starters, which may be true, although very few terrorists become active
without being influenced by someone they know or are communicating with.

Indications so far are that both men were known extremists but with nothing to
suggest they were plotting serious law-breaking - in which case there was
nothing to distinguish them from a few thousand others. Arguably, such
individuals are harder for security forces to identify and monitor than
organised groups intending more sophisticated and deadly attacks. The latter
have more contacts, leave more trails and become exposed over lengthier periods
of planning and preparation, but any given individual could move overnight from
being today's non-violent extremist to tomorrow's murderer with a meat-cleaver.

The only way to increase our chances of intercepting such individuals in future
is by more intensive monitoring of (as yet) non-violent extremists, which means
more intrusive surveillance of the sort recently rejected by David Cameron's
Coalition partners. Meanwhile, we can console ourselves with the thought that
the number of Americans killed by terrorism since 9/11 roughly equals the number
who died in their baths. We should be watchful, very watchful, but not afraid.
To fear them would be to grant them a kind of victory.

Alan Judd's spy novel 'Uncommon Enemy' is published by Simon & Schuster

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 9:21 PM GMT

Woolwich attack in pictures: British soldier killed by terrorists in south
London;
Woolwich attack in pictures: A British soldier has been butchered on a busy
London street by two Islamist terrorists.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 19 words


Woolwich attack in pictures: A British soldier has been butchered on a busy
London street by two Islamist terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 7:50 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: Snoopers' charter 'could have prevented machete tragedy';
The Woolwich terrorist attack could potentially have been avoided if the
Government had greater powers to monitor people's internet communications,
defence experts have suggested.

BYLINE: By Peter Dominiczak Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 503 words


Woolwich attack, latest                                              Woolwich
attack: full story                                              Mother confronts
Woolwich terrorist

As it was disclosed that the two men suspected of murdering Drummer Lee Rigby
were known to the security services, politicians warned that it was a ­"terrible
mistake" to have shelved the so-called "snoopers' charter".

Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister, last month forced the Conservatives to
abandon plans for a Communications Data Bill after warning that the measures
would represent a "significant reduction in personal privacy".

Security officials and ministers had warned that the powers were essential to
protect Britain from terrorists.

There are now growing calls for the plan to be resurrected in the wake of the
killing of Drummer Rigby, 25, by two suspected Islamic terrorists.

Lord Reid, the former Labour home secretary, said that such measures were
essential to combat terrorism.

He warned it could now take "some huge tragedy" to show that the decision over
the "snoopers' charter" was wrong.

Lord Reid said that mobile-phone data had been crucial in foiling the 2006 plot
to blow up airliners using liquid explosives.

"Had we not had that method of connecting people through their communications,
2,500 people would probably have been blown out of the sky over the United
Kingdom," he said. "It was a vital component."

Lord West, the former First Sea Lord and security minister, said it was "a
terrible mistake" to abandon the scheme because of Mr Clegg's intervention.

He said that having a database of people's internet and phone usage would help
the authorities to determine whether the terrorists have links to other groups.

"That information is extremely important for our security services to be able to
pin down people, find out who they were linked with, find out who radicalised
them," he told Sky News. "We need to know this information, and I do think that
the Communications Data Bill that was due to come through but has been put on
pause by the Deputy Prime Minister, I think that's a terrible mistake."

A spokesman for Mr Clegg said: "There is currently no suggestion that the
proposals in the draft Communications Data Bill would have had any relevance to
[Wednesday's] sickening events," the spokesman said. "There are already
substantial powers in place to track the communications of criminals and
terrorists."

MI5 had warned MPs that its ability to combat terrorism would be severely
hampered without the powers.

Baroness Warsi, the Conservative minister for faith and communities, yesterday
indicated that the Government could look at the proposals again.

"I'm sure people will have a lessons-learnt exercise," she told the BBC's World
at One programme. "But I think the wrong way to make legislation is on the back
of a tragedy like this."

Lord Carlile, a Lib Dem peer, said Cobra should consider reviewing whether to
revive the Bill.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 4:13 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: Extremely difficult to prevent 'lone wolf' attacks says Lord
West;
The former Minister for Security and Counter-Terrorism, admits 'lone wolf'
terrorist attacks are very difficult to prevent. He also says that the
Communications Data Bill would help fight terrorism and blames Deputy Prime
Minister Nick Clegg for standing in its way.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 197 words


Woolwich attack, latest

Lord West acknowledged the nature of the challenges facing the police and
security services in tackling 'lone wolf' extremists in the wake of the brutal
killing of a British soldier outside Woolwich barracks in south east London.

"We live in a democratic and free society. You don't know where they'll happen,
you have no idea who it is, and so it's extremely difficult. All you can do is
put in place certain precautions, make sure people are aware that there's a risk
to them.

"The lone wolf by definition is someone you don't know who it is, he's often
actually self-indoctrinated, he's been watching the web, he's got himself these
strange ideas in his mind - he's not talking to other people necessarily," said
Lord West, who served as Minister for Security and Counter-Terrorism under
Gordon Brown .

He also blamed the failure to bring the Communications Data Bill into law on
Nick Clegg, who he claimed had stymied legislation which would enable the
security services to make use of data held by mobile phone operators.

Source: ITN

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 3:40 PM GMT

Obama administration calls London terror attack 'senseless violence' - the same
language President Obama used over Benghazi

BYLINE: By Nile Gardiner

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 522 words


The US State Department has issued a statement in the aftermath of yesterday's
barbaric killing of a British soldier by Islamist militants in Woolwich. It
reads in full:

The United States condemns today's attack in the Woolwich district of London. We
stand with our U.K. allies in the face of such senseless violence. Our thoughts
and condolence are with the family of the victim and the British people.

This is exactly the same language President Obama used to describe the killing
of the US Ambassador to Libya and three American personnel in Benghazi on
September 11, 2012, at a Rose Garden press conference on September 12:

Since our founding, the United States has been a nation that respects all
faiths. We reject all efforts to denigrate the religious beliefs of others. But
there is absolutely no justification to this type of senseless violence. None.
The world must stand together to unequivocally reject these brutal acts.

Why does the use of this language matter? The Obama administration initially
hesitated to describe the Benghazi attack as an act of terrorism, not least
because it undermined the US administration's narrative that al-Qaeda was a
diminishing threat. It ludicrously attempted to blame the killings on an
anti-Islamic video that hardly anyone had seen. The White House's bungling over
Benghazi and its failure to act to save the lives of US personnel in danger is
now the subject of Congressional hearings, and is proving a major embarrassment
for this administration. It was blatantly obvious from the start that the
Benghazi atrocity was a terrorist attack carried out by Islamists, yet President
Obama and his team were unwilling to acknowledge it as such.

Yesterday's attack in London was also clearly an act of terrorism by Islamists,
yet, the State Department made no mention of either, despite the fact there was
widespread coverage of the nature of the attack in the US media yesterday. The
Washington Post, citing the ITV news report, quoted one of the killers as
saying:

We swear by Almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you. The only reasons we
have done this is because Muslims are dying every day. This British soldier is
an eye for an eye a tooth for tooth. We apologise that women had to see this
today but in our lands our women have to see the same. You people will never be
safe. Remove your government. They don't care about you.

It's time for President Obama to acknowledge reality. This is a global war
between the free world and the forces of Islamist terror. These are not acts of
"senseless violence." They are acts of brutal terrorism aimed against Great
Britain, the United States and all who defend the principles of liberty, freedom
and Western-style democracy. It is important that political leaders on both
sides of the Atlantic identify exactly who the enemy is, what their aims are,
and why they must be emphatically defeated.

Read more by Nile Gardiner on Telegraph Blogs

Follow Telegraph Blogs on Twitter

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 1:33 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: Nick Clegg told to stop opposing plans for a 'snoopers'
charter';
Nick Clegg is facing calls to rethink his opposition to Government plans to
monitor people's internet communications in the wake of the Woolwich terror
attack.

BYLINE: By Peter Dominiczak Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 683 words


Woolwich attack, latest
Woolwich attack: full story                                              Mother
confronts Woolwich terrorist

The Deputy Prime Minister last month torpedoed Conservative plans for a
so-called "snoopers' charter" after warning that the measures would represent a
"significant reduction in personal privacy".

However, following the brutal killing of a soldier in Woolwich by two
terrorists, politicians said the planned Communications Data Bill should now be
resurrected.

Lord West, the former First Sea Lord and security minister, said it was
"terrible mistake" to shelve the scheme because of Mr Clegg's intervention.

He said that having a database of people's internet and phone usage would help
the authorities to determine whether or not the terrorists have links to other
groups.

"That information is extremely important for our security services to be able to
pin down people, find out who they were linked with, find out who radicalised
them," he told Sky News. "Was it just themselves or was there someone
radicalising more people? We need to know this information and I do think that
the Communications Data Bill that was due to come through but has been put on
pause by the Deputy Prime Minister, I think that's a terrible mistake."

Baroness Warsi, the Conservative minister for faith and communities, indicated
that the Government could look at the proposals again in the wake of the attack.

"Like with any situation I'm sure people will analyse how things could be done
better and I'm sure people will have a lessons-learnt exercise," she told the
BBC's World at One programme.

"But I think the wrong way to make legislations is on the back of a tragedy like
this. It isn't the moment to start looking at the kind of legislation we should
or should not have but I'm sure at some point it will play into the debate."

Lord Carlile, a former independent reviewer of terror laws, said the Woolwich
attack should provoke a "pause for thought" on the decision to drop the
"snoopers' charter".

And Lord Reid, the former Labour Home Secretary, said such measures were
"essential" to combating terrorism, warning it could otherwise take "some huge
tragedy" to show the decision was wrong.

David Cameron and Theresa May, the Home Secretary, had previously warned that
the Communications Data Bill was essential to protect Britain from terrorists.

But Mr Clegg insisted that proposals would create a "treasure trove of data"
that was neither workable nor proportionate.

Ministers are now in talks with internet firms over alternative law changes.

Speaking on BBC2's Newsnight programme, Lord Carlile said: "We have to learn
proportionate lessons from what has occurred.

"We mustn't rush to judgment. But we must ensure that the police and the
security services have for the future the tools they need which will enable them
to prevent this kind of attack taking place.

"I hope that this will give the Government pause for thought about their
abandonment for example of the Communications Data Bill."

Lord Reid said mobile phone data had been crucial in foiling the 2006 plot to
blow up airliners using liquid explosives but that terrorists now used online
communication.

"Had we not had that method of connecting people through their communications,
2,500 people would probably have been blown out of the sky over the United
Kingdom. It was a vital component.

"But now people have moved on from mobile phones to internet, email, text,
Skype. We don't have the means of doing what we did six years ago.

"That is where some of the measures the Government has refused to implement,
like data communication, is absolutely essential for effective fighting of
terrorism."

MI5 had previously warned MPs that the ability to combat terrorism would be
severely hampered without the powers.

And last year Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, warned
the new powers were a "matter of life and death".

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 1:03 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: how to donate to Help For Heroes;
A campaign to show solidarity with the British soldier murdered in yesterday's
terror attack has prompted a surge in donations to Help for Heroes.

BYLINE: By Ben Farmer and Rosa Silverman

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 352 words


Woolwich attack, latest                                              Woolwich
attack: full story                                              Mother confronts
Woolwich terrorist

The charity said the website had been innnundated with traffic after news broke
that the victim, believed to be a serving soldier, had been wearing one of its
T-shirts.

Donations can usually be made by logging on to the site, but it crashed within
hours of the killing beneath the weight of the heightened interest.

The "donate" section of the site was still out of action today.

Donations can also be made by:

:: Texting the word "HERO" to 70900 to give £5;

:: Logging on to a separate online giving site at
www.bmycharity.com/charities/helpforheroes

:: Posting cheques or postal orders, made payable to "Help for Heroes," to Help
for Heroes, Donations, 14 Parkers Close, Downton, Salisbury, SP5 3RB;

:: Calling the donations team on 01725 514130. Out of hours you can leave a
message and someone from the team will call you back;

:: Emailing donations@helpforheroes.org.uk and leaving your contact details.

A charity spokesman said: "Last night with the website, there was clearly a lot
of interest."

On Twitter, many people said they would wear Help For Heroes T-shirts to work or
hold fundraising events for the charity, which raises money to provide better
care for members of the Armed Forces wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Michael Vaughan, former England cricket captain, said: "Let's get it trending...
#HelpforHeroeshonourday. May 22nd... All wear Help for Heroes t-shirts to work."

Another user said: "Just brought a Help for Heroes Tee Shirt to wear in memory
of the soldier murdered in Woolwich. Anyone out there care to join me?"

A statement from the charity said: "Help for Heroes is appalled to hear that a
man, believed to be a serving soldier, has been brutally murdered in Woolwich.

"We are desperately saddened to hear of this sickening attack and offer our
thoughts and prayers to his family, colleagues and friends."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 1:02 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: David Cameron raises prospect that terrorists were known to
MI5;
David Cameron has raised the prospect that the terrorists who killed a soldier
in Woolwich were known to the British security services.

BYLINE: By Peter Dominiczak Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 466 words


Woolwich attack, latest
Woolwich attack: full story                                              Mother
confronts Woolwich terrorist

Speaking in Downing Street the Prime Minister refused to comment on speculation
that the killers were known to MI5.

In the first terrorist murder on the British mainland since the 7/7 suicide
bombings of 2005, the men attempted to behead the soldier, hacking at him like a
"piece of meat" in front of dozens of witnesses, before both were shot by police
who took around 20 minutes to arrive.

After the killing, one of the men, believed to be a British-born Muslim convert,
spoke calmly into a witness's video phone. The security services are now
carrying out a massive investigation and have searched properties in London and
in Lincolnshire.

Mr Cameron said the Intelligence and Security Committee will now carry out a
full investigation to determine whether or not there were any failings in the
build-up to the attack.

"The point that the two suspects in this horrific attack were known to the
security services has been widely reported," Mr Cameron said. "You would not
expect me to comment on this when a criminal investigation is ongoing but what I
can say is this - as is the normal practice in these sorts of cases the
Independent Police Complaints Commission will be able to review the actions of
the police and the Intelligence and Security Committee will be able to do the
same for the wider agencies."

The Prime Minister said that "after an event like this it is natural that
questions will be asked about what additional steps can be taken to keep us
safe".

However, he added that he is "not in favour of knee-jerk responses" but said he
will ensure "those questions are asked and answered".

Mr Cameron said that the attackers were "trying to divide us".

"They should know something like this will only bring us together and make us
stronger," he said.

The Prime Minister added that there was no justification in Islam for the
attacks, which were "solely and purely" the responsibility of the individuals
involved.

He paid tribute to the people of Woolwich who attempted to help the soldier and
said that "one of the best ways of defeating terrorism is to go about our normal
lives."

Mr Cameron added: "This country will be absolutely resolute in its stand against
violent extremism and terror. We will never give in to terror or terrorism in
any of its forms.

"This view is shared by every community in our country. This was not just an
attack on Britain and on the British way of life; it was also a betrayal of
Islam and of the Muslim communities who give so much to our country."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 12:15 PM GMT

Newspapers were right to publish horrific images of the Woolwich terror attack

BYLINE: By Iain Martin

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 442 words


Haven't the terrorists won, and succeeded in communicating their message, when
today every newspaper in the land carries images of the appalling scenes in
Woolwich? Alongside the pictures are quoted the rantings of one of the alleged
perpetrators.

While I understand the concerns being aired, ironically, on social media - which
is usually the wild west in terms of ethics and the law - as a journalist I
simply cannot agree. Newspaper editors were absolutely right to use those
extremely powerful and deeply disturbing images.

It is not just that newspapers would have looked ludicrous if they had held back
and declined to publish what was circulating last night on the internet and
being screened on television news. It goes well beyond such practicalities and
the desire of newspapers for continued relevance.

Of course newspaper executives do self-censor regularly, applying taste tests
and making editorial judgements on what will be considered acceptable. But the
overriding imperative should wherever possible always be for people to see
events as clearly and as truthfully as possible. Show it as it was. Show these
animals condemning themselves. Transparency allows them to seen for what they
are by as many people as possible.

The murder of a British serviceman in daylight on a London street, in plain
view, is one of the single most shocking new stories of recent decades. I can
remember nothing quite like it since an Irish Republican mob dragged two
soldiers, Corporals David Howe and Derek Wood, from their car at a funeral in
Belfast in 1988. Of course there has been far greater loss of life in individual
terror attacks since, but there is so much concentrated and brazen hatred in
this incident, with one poor soul being hunted and killed to make a twisted and
idiotic political point, that it has a unique intensity.

And in that regard, print also still has a particular power on these occasions.
In the blizzard of 24 hour news and dizzying social media it still, the next
morning, stops you in your tracks and makes you think. I sat this morning at the
breakfast table looking at these pictures, thinking about the victim and the
madness of his killers. There it was laid out. People living in this country did
this to a defenceless young man, and then sickeningly boasted about it. That
should be recorded, published, broadcast and understood for what it is:
barbarism on a British street.

Read more by Iain Martin on Telegraph Blogs
Follow Telegraph Blogs on Twitter

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 12:07 PM GMT

David Cameron: 'Woolwich attack sickened us all';
Prime Minister David Cameron says the "country will be absolutely resolute in
its stand against violent extremism and terror" in the aftermath of Wednesday's
attack in Woolwich.

LENGTH: 153 words


Prime Minister David Cameron was speaking after he had convened an emergency
meeting of his intelligence chiefs after two Islamists hacked a soldier to death
with meat cleavers on a south London street .

He said: "This country will be absolutely resolute in its stand against violent
extremism and terror. We will never give in to terror or terrorism in any of its
forms."

"This was not just an attack on Britain, and on the British way of life, it was
also a betrayal of Islam and of the Muslim communities who give so much to this
country. There is nothing in Islam that justifies this truly dreadful act."

He said a images filmed just minutes after the killing showed a man with hands
covered in blood, brandishing a bloodied meat cleaver and a knife were "deeply
shocking".

"The people that did this were trying to divide us. They should know something
like this will only bring us together and make us stronger."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 11:05 AM GMT

Woolwich attack: We must tackle hate preaching over the internet, security
experts say;
Security experts have called for a major crackdown on extremist websites in the
wake of the Woolwich terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Peter Dominiczak Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 460 words


Woolwich attack, latest
Woolwich attack: full story                                              Mother
confronts Woolwich terrorist

Baroness Neville-Jones, a former security minister and chairman of the British
Joint Intelligence Committee, and Colonel Richard Kemp, a former Army commander
and terrorism expert, said the security services need to focus on the
"inspiration" that comes from internet hate preaching.

The police and security services are still attempting to establish a motive for
the brutal killing of a soldier in south east London by two Islamic extremists
yesterday afternoon.

In the first terrorist murder on the British mainland since the 7/7 suicide
bombings of 2005, the men attempted to behead the soldier, hacking at him like a
"piece of meat" in front of dozens of witnesses, before both were shot by police
who took around 20 minutes to arrive.

Lady Neville-Jones told the BBC Radio Four Today programme that internet hate
preaching could have inspired the two terrorists.

"What we shouldn't forget is that even if there is nobody else behind it one of
the things which runs through the scene at the moment is the inspiration that
comes from internet hate preaching and jihadist rhetoric and this is a very,
very serious problem now," she said.

The Muslim Council of Britain condemned the killing as a "truly barbaric" act
with "no basis in Islam".

Lady Neville-Jones added: "I do think it's very welcome that Muslim leadership
in the UK have roundly condemned this. That's very reassuring and very helpful.
But I do think there's a further task that Muslim leadership in this country
does need to help with...we need to redouble our efforts in tackling the spread
of this kind of rhetoric."

Col Kemp, who commanded all British troops in Afghanistan, said it would be
"wrong to now suggest we live in a state of fear of this type of attack".

However, he warned that it is possible further attacks "will be inspired" by the
atrocity in Woolwich.

He said that "one of the biggest priorities" for the security services should
now be looking at the role the internet plays in "motivating people" to commit
terrorist attacks.

"I think it is possible that it will be further attacks will be inspired by this
attack," he said. "One of the biggest priorities for the services is to look at
the role of the internet in motivating people and look very carefully at which
radical sites should be suppressed on the internet as well as of course more
direct preaching in some of the mosques in this country which has caused some
people to turn to radicalism and terrorism before."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 9:50 AM GMT

Poll: Should Parliament be recalled after the Woolwich terror attack?

BYLINE: By Will Heaven

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 170 words


Yesterday, MPs began a 13-day Whitsun recess. Should they return to work?

This is the official Parliamentary procedure for a recall:

Standing order 13                     1.) Whenever the House stands adjourned
and it is represented to the Speaker by Her Majesty's Ministers that the public
interest requires that the House should meet at a time earlier than that to
which the House stands adjourned, the Speaker, if he is satisfied that the
public interest does so require, may give notice that, being so satisfied, he
appoints a time for the House to meet, and the House shall accordingly meet at
the time stated in such notice.

Most recently, Parliament has been recalled for tributes to Margaret Thatcher on
April 10, for a debate on civil disorder after the summer riots of August 2011,
and for a debate on phonehacking, the media and the police in July 2011.

Should Parliament be recalled after the Woolwich killing?

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 7:58 AM GMT

The far-Right EDL is using Twitter and Facebook to exploit the Woolwich
terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Jake Wallis Simons

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 357 words


In the immediate aftermath of the tragic attack in Woolwich, one would assume
that the matter would be trending massively on Twitter. Instead, however, the
hashtag #woolwich has had an erratic presence in the top 10 most popular terms.
For much of the evening, it was absent altogether.

Instead, for a while the phrase "Allahu Akhbar" was trending, due to a frenzied
discussion about whether the suspects shouted the phrase or not. More
significantly, firmly in the top five has been "EDL", which stands for the
English Defence League, who, led by Tommy Robinson, have been fighting the
police in Woolwich.

There could be no clearer demonstration of the nature of terrorist attacks.
Horrendous as it was, the attack was on a relatively small scale, mercifully
claiming only one victim. Yet the societal impact it has created has been huge,
and it is only just beginning. Political and community leaders across the board
are appealing for calm. Yet there are many groups who care nothing for this;
they exist in a state of perpetual febrility, gunpowder waiting for a spark.

Since the attack, the English Defence League's Twitter account has gone into
overdrive. Whereas it normally tweets only a few times a day, it has been
tweeting every few minutes. The account has accumulated large amounts of new
followers, and the EDL Facebook page has received thousands of new "likes".

Interestingly, however, the polarisation of opinion does not seem to have gone
both ways. Muslims have tended to take to Twitter to condemn the attacks; a
selection has been compiled by the Spectator.

Of course, this is only Twitter. It would be a mistake to see it as
representative of public opinion in Britain and around the world. Nevertheless,
it is fair to say that tonight, the micro-blogging site is speaking volumes
about the opportunistic nature of the far Right, and the type of emotions on
which it thrives.

Read more by Jake Wallis Simons on Telegraph Blogs
Follow Telegraph Blogs on Twitter

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 7:46 AM GMT

Woolwich attack: terrorist proclaimed 'an eye for an eye' after attack;
A British soldier has been butchered on a busy London street by two Islamist
terrorists, one of whom proclaimed afterwards: "An eye for an eye and a tooth
for a tooth."

BYLINE: By Gordon Rayner and Steven Swinford

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1197 words


Woolwich machete attack: latest
Woolwich 'beheading' is straight out of al-Qaeda's terror manual
Mum talked down Woolwich terrorists

In the first terrorist murder on the British mainland since the 7/7 suicide
bombings of 2005, the men attempted to behead the soldier, hacking at him like a
"piece of meat" in front of dozens of witnesses, before both were shot by police
who took around 20 minutes to arrive.

After the killing, one of the men, believed to be a British-born Muslim convert,
spoke calmly into a witness's video phone.

Speaking with a London accent, holding a knife and a meat cleaver and with his
hands dripping with blood, he said: "We swear by almighty Allah we will never
stop fighting you until you leave us alone. Your people will never be safe. The
only reason we have done this is because Muslims are dying by British soldiers
every day.

"We must fight them as they fight us. An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.
I apologise that women had to witness this today but in our lands our women have
to see the same. You people will never be safe. Remove your government, they
don't care about you. Do you think David Cameron is going to get caught in the
street when we start busting our guns? Do you think your politicians are going
to die?

"No, it's going to be the average guy like you, and your children. So get rid of
them. Tell them to bring our troops back so we, so you can all live in peace."

Witnesses said that the men used a car to run over the soldier just yards from
the Royal Artillery Barracks in Woolwich, south-east London, before setting
about him with knives and a meat cleaver as if they were "trying to remove
organs". One unconfirmed report suggested that he had been beheaded.

Passers-by said they thought at first that the attackers were trying to help the
man, who was wearing a Help for Heroes T-shirt, and only realised they were
killing him when they got closer.

As they attacked the soldier, one of the men shouted "Allahu akbar", or God is
Great, according to the BBC, while another witness said they appeared to pray
next to the body as if the solder was a "sacrifice".

Their victim, thought to be aged around 20, had reportedly been on duty at an
Army recruitment office in central London and was on his way back to the
barracks when he was murdered at 2.20pm.

It emerged that passers-by went to the soldier's aid. One of the killers ordered
that only women could tend to the body, not men.

There were also questions over why it took around 20 minutes for armed police to
arrive on the scene, during which time the killers calmly walked up and down the
road, carrying their bloodied knives and a pistol, while members of the public
confronted them.

When police did arrive, both gunmen tried to rush at the police and were shot,
reportedly by a female officer.

On Wednesday night they were under armed guard in separate hospitals. Their
British accents suggested that they were "home-grown" terrorists and security
sources said they did not believe anyone else was involved in the incident.

David Cameron described the attack, which had chilling echoes of a plot to
behead a soldier foiled in Birmingham in 2007, as "absolutely sickening", but
said that Britain will "never buckle" in the face of terrorism. This morning he
will chair a meeting of the Government's Cobra emergency briefing committee to
be updated on developments.

Speaking in Paris, where he had been meeting François Hollande, the French
president, he said: "We have suffered these attacks before. We have always beat
them back. We have done that through a combination of vigilance, of security, of
security information, good policing.

"But above all, the way we have beaten them back is showing an absolutely
indomitable British spirit that we will not be cowed, we will never buckle under
these attacks. The terrorists will never win because they can never beat the
values we hold dear, the belief in freedom, in democracy, in free speech, in our
British values, Western values. They are never going to defeat those. That is
how we will stand up to these people, whoever they are, however many there are
of them, and that is how we will win."

He added that "every aspect" of security would be reviewed. After a Cobra
meeting last night, chaired by Theresa May, the Home Secretary, security was
tightened at all London barracks.

Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London who attended the meeting, said: "I know that
Londoners have been through terrorism before and this city has huge resilience.

"What we also have is the best, the most professional security services and the
best police in the world to protect us and they are now going to get to the
bottom of exactly what's happened."

The Queen announced that she would go ahead with a planned visit to the King's
Troop Royal Horse Artillery at Woolwich Barracks next week.

The murder appeared to have been planned to ensure maximum publicity, with the
killers urging witnesses to take their picture "as if they wanted to be on TV".
One witness, identified only as James, said he and his partner watched in horror
as they realised what they were seeing. He shouted at the men to stop, only for
one of them to pull out a gun and threaten to shoot him.

After driving his car further up the road, he stopped and called the police,
telling them to bring armed units.

He said: "These two guys are chopping this guy to pieces, literally hacking at
something like it's a bit of meat. These two guys were crazed, they were just
animals. They then dragged the poor guy from the pavement and dumped his body in
the middle of the road.

"They were standing there with the knives in their hand, waving the gun about.
There were police at the end of the road but there were no police in the
vicinity of the attackers. I think they were proud of what they were doing."

Footage of the incident obtained by ITV News showed one woman crouched over the
body of the dead soldier in an attempt to shield it from further attack. Three
other women stood between the body and the killers.

Joe Tallant, a van loader who lives near the scene, said: "My friend and her mum
were walking up the hill and the mum came straight to the victim.

"She asked the black guys, 'Can I help him?' And one of them said he was already
dead but she could have a go. Then one of them said, 'No man is coming near this
body, only women.'

"She was so brave, she didn't care what happened to her; she knelt down by his
side and comforted him. She held his hand and put her other hand on his chest."

Mulgrave Primary School, just yards from the scene of the killing, went into
"lockdown". However, parents said some of the children had witnessed the attack.

The Muslim Council of Britain condemned the killing as a "truly barbaric" act
with "no basis in Islam".

A spokesman said: "We call on all our communities, Muslim and non-Muslim, to
come together in solidarity to ensure the forces of hatred do not prevail."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 1:18 AM GMT

Woolwich attack: David Cameron vows UK will 'never buckle in face of terror';
Speaking in Paris alongside Francois Hollande, the French president, David
Cameron says Britain has faced terror attacks such as the one in Woolwich before
and adds: "We will never buckle in the face of it."

LENGTH: 360 words


At a press conference in Paris, the Prime Minister said Britain has faced terror
attacks such as the one in Woolwich before and added: "We will never buckle in
the face of it."

Aerial footage and pictures taken by eyewitnesses show a frenzied scene
at the junction of John Wilson Street and Wellington Street in Woolwich.

Some images show three men lying scattered in the street, surrounded by
discarded weapons and splashes of blood.

Woolwich and Greenwich MP Nick Raynsford
said it was his understanding that the deceased was a serving soldier.

Mr Raynsford said: "I'll be talking to everyone who is involved, we will be
trying to do everything possible to try and ensure calm in the area. People will
be very, very shocked."

London Ambulance Service confirmed a man was found dead at the scene, while two
other men were taken to hospital, one of them in a serious condition.

The Ministry of Defence said it was urgently looking at the reports that the
incident involved a soldier but had no further comment.

The incident occurred some 200 yards from the Royal Artillery Barracks, adjacent
to Woolwich Common, the historical home of the Royal Artillery.

The barracks, also known as the Woolwich station, now houses a number of the
King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery and independent companies of the Grenadier
and Coldstream Guards.

Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford confirmed tonight that the two
attackers were shot by armed officers.

He said in a statement: "A number of weapons were reportedly being used in the
attack, and this included reports of a firearm."

He added: "Two men, who we believe from early reports to have been carrying
weapons, were shot by police. They were taken to separate London hospitals. They
are receiving treatment for their injuries.

"I can understand that this incident will cause community concerns and I would
like to reiterate that we are investigating what has taken place today."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 9:26 PM GMT

MoD names victim of Woolwich terror attack as Drummer Lee Rigby

BYLINE: Roland Watson, Jenny Booth and Sean O'Neill

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 1427 words


The victim of yesterday's horrific terror attack in Woolwich was tonight named
by the Ministry of Defence as 25-year-old Drummer Lee Rigby of the 2nd
Battalion, the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers.

A military bandsman in the Corps of Drums, Drummer Rigby played his part in the
military pageantry of his regiment, on parade outside the royal palaces in 2008.

He served tours of duty in Afghanistan, Cyprus and Germany, but since 2011 he
had been attached to regimental recruiting team and had performed ceremonial
duties at the regimental headquarters at the Tower of London.

His family paid tribute tonight. "Lee was lovely. He would do anything for
anybody, he always looked after his sisters and always protected them. He took a
'big brother' role with everyone," they said in a statement.

"All he wanted to do from when he was a little boy, was be in the Army. He
wanted to live life and enjoy himself. His family meant everything to him. He
was a loving son, husband, father, brother, and uncle, and a friend to many."

Tonight President Obama issued a statement condemning the attack on Drummer
Rigby. "The United States stands resolute with the United Kingdom, our ally and
friend, against violent extremism and terror," he said. "There can be absolutely
no justification for such acts, and our thoughts and prayers are with the family
of the victim, the police and security services responding to this horrific act
and the communities they serve, and the British people."

Drummer Rigby, born in Crumpsall, was a keen supporter of Manchester United and
was described as a loving father to his two-year-old son, Jack.

"Riggers was one of the Battalion's great characters, always smiling and always
ready to brighten the mood with his fellow Fusiliers," said Warrant Officer
Class 1 Ned Miller, the Regimental Sergeant Major.

Lieutenant Colonel Jim Taylor, the regiment's commanding officer, described
Drummer Rigby as a true warrior who had served with distinction, but also a
"real character" whose personality made him a natural choice to work in the
recruiting group.

Drummer Rigby was struck and pinned to a road sign by a Vauxhall Tigra car in
Woolwich at 2.20pm yesterday, before being hacked to death in the street with
machetes and meat cleavers.

Two suspects were shot by police and are under armed guard in separate
hospitals, under arrest. Both were said to have been previously known to the
security services.

A further two people are under arrest in connection with Drummer Rigby's murder.
A man and a woman, both 29, were held today on suspicion of conspiracy to murder
and are being questioned at a police station in south London, Scotland Yard
said.

One of the two shot suspects was today named as Michael Adebolajo, 28, of
Nigerian descent who converted to a radical form of Islam. He has been named by
former schoolfriends in East London as the man with bloodied hands seen in
dramatic footage describing the atrocity as revenge for the deaths of Muslims.

The second attacker has not been identified, although police sources indicated
that he too was British and of Nigerian descent.

The names of both men figured in MI5 counter-terrorism operations, but it is
understood that neither was seen as the key figure in the plots under
investigation.

Mr Adebolajo is understood to have tried to travel overseas to fight jihad in
the recent past, but it is not clear where in the world he was planning to go.

One source said that the attack in Woolwich could have been planned and executed
in a couple of hours and was almost impossible to intercept.

There is understood to have been nothing in the intelligence assessment of
either suspect that indicated that they were about to launch an attack
imminently.

David Cameron said there would in time be a full investigation by the Security
and Intelligence Committee. He also made a point of praising the work of the
security services and the police, who had kept the public safe on a daily basis.

"The people who did this were trying to divide us. They should know something
like this will only bring us closer together and make us stronger," said the
Prime Minister, speaking outside No10.

"Our thoughts today are with the victim and with his family. They are grieving
for their loved one and we have lost a brave soldier."

Schoolfriends at Marshalls Park School in Romford in Essex said that Mr
Adebolajo was a "regular guy" who converted to Islam after attending Havering
Sixth Form College.

He is thought to have attended Greenwich University and was previously
registered at student housing near the university.

One school friend told The Times: "In school he was always smiling, always
happy, bit of a joker. In Sixth form I noticed he changed a little. But he was
friendly, always smiling. Its such a shock."

He has a younger brother and older sister, whose address in Romford was being
searched this morning by police. A young woman carrying an overnight bag was
driven away from the address at 8.10am.

This morning Met police officers searched a large, detached house in
Lincolnshire, believed to belong to Mr Adebolajo's father, Anthony, who is said
to work for the NHS. Blinds were drawn at the £365,000 property in the village
of Saxilby and there was a police cordon around the house.

Police also raided a property on a housing estate in Greenwich, South London.
Neighbours at the ground-floor flat said four people were led away at 6am as
were two children. Some reports linked this property to the second, as yet
unnamed, suspect.

Anjem Choudary, former leader of the banned radical group al-Muhajiroun, claimed
today that he recognised Mr Adebolajo as someone who attended meetings of the
group and its successor organisations from 2005 until 2011.

"I knew him as Mujahid. He attended our meetings and my lectures. I wouldn't
describe him as a member [of al-Muhajiroun]. There were lots of people who came
to our activities who weren't necessarily members," he said.

"He has been around on and off the scene for quite some time. I spoke to Sheikh
Omar Bakri Mohammed this morning and he remembers his face too.

"I wouldn't say he was a member of our group but he was around and about until
two years ago when he disappeared and I don't know who he associated with after
that.

"He was like many of the young men who come to us - very quiet, kind, a pleasant
character. What happened yesterday was a shock for all of us.

"But as he said himself to the camera, this is all the result of British foreign
policy. He made that clear."

Lorna Taylor, a Woolwich resident and the mother of a serving soldier, who knew
the victim, said that his family was "in torment".

Ms Taylor appealed for any protests over the death to be peaceful. "All that
[violent protest] is going to achieve to make his death be for nothing. Let's
just remember this young boy, remember him for his life, not for the way he
died," she said.

More than 200 members of the far-Right English Defence League turned out in
Woolwich, skirmishing with police and threatening a response to the killing that
would dwarf the ferocity of the London riots.

Mosques in Woolwich, Braintree in Essex and Gillingham in Kent were attacked.
Two men were arrested after the mosque attacks in Woolwich. There were further
arrests in Essex and Kent.

Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, 48, a Brownies leader who confronted the attackers, said
that one of them told her: "We want to start a war in London tonight."

Ms Loyau-Kennett, a mother of two from Cornwall, says she replied: "It is only
you versus many people, you are going to lose."

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, Scotland Yard's police commissioner, said that he had
met community leaders. "Across London our officers are in contact with their
communities too. The shock that we all feel at what has happened must bind us
together," he said.

Security has been stepped up at Woolwich and at other military barracks across
London. Soldiers have been advised not to wear their uniforms on the streets.

The UK terrorist threat level reportedly remains unchanged at "substantial",
however, suggesting that there was no intelligence that further attacks were
imminent.

The Muslim Council of Britain said that no cause justified such an "horrific
murder". A spokesman said: "This is a truly barbaric act that has no basis in
Islam and we condemn this unreservedly. Our thoughts are with the victim and his
family."

The killing is the first attack on Service personnel in Britain linked to
Islamists. In 2007 police in Birmingham uncovered a plot to kidnap and behead a
British soldier on leave from Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 5:42 PM GMT

Live: Woolwich terror attack day two;
*Victim named as Drummer Lee Rigby, 25 *Suspects known to security services *One
named as Michael Adebolajo*Suspects under guard in hospitals *Police search
Romford and Lincolnshire properties*Police hit back at criticism of response
time

BYLINE: Ruth Elkins and Jenny Booth

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 5387 words


17.30 And that's it for our live coverage today. You can read the latest news
wrap here.

17.01 The MoD has named the victim in the Woolwich attack as Drummer Lee Rigby,
25 of 2nd Battalion, Royal Regiment of Fusiliers. Drummer Rigby had a
two-year-old son, Jack.

The full MoD statement is here

Born in Manchester, Drummer Rigby joined the army in 2006 and on successful
completion of his infantry training course at Infantry Training Centre Catterick
was selected to be a member of the Corps of Drums and posted to 2nd Battalion
The Royal Regiment of Fusiliers.

He had served in Cyprus, Afghanistan and Germany and in the UK, had stood guard
outside the Royal Palaces. In 2011, he took up a recruiting post, assisting with
duties at Regimental Headquarters in the Tower of London.

16.26: The Somalia-based militia group al-Shabaab has expressed sympathy for the
Woolwich attackers in tweets posted in the last hour.

Under the twitter handle @HSMPress1 the group wrote in a series of tweets:

"What Cameron describes as a "sickening" attack is what innocent Muslim woman
and children are subjected to every day by #British troops"

"It is not a "betrayal" of Islam as he'd put it but rather a "portrayal" of
Islam. Don't expect Muslims to simply turn the other cheek!"

"It's a timely reminder to the repugnant lot at No.10 that Muslims are fully
conscious of their heinous atrocities against Islam and Muslims"

"The death of the wretched Kafir (unbeliever) is insignificant compared to the
deaths of hundreds of innocent Muslims at the hands of British soldiers."

"The #British army has a woeful record of abuses against unarmed Muslims across
the globe. It's an eye for an eye, so you can lump it!"

"There are no adequate legal remedies for British injustices against innocent
Muslims around the globe, only the Law of Retribution"

A final tweet says:

"Toulouse, Boston, Woolwich...Where next? You just have to grin and bear it,
it's inevitable. A case of the chickens coming home to roost!"

16.02 Greater Manchester Police have tweeted that reports of unrest in Oldham
and Chadderton are untrue. "Police patrols have been to the area and there are
no protests," @gmpolice reports.

15.51: Although we do not yet know the identity of the soldier who was killed
yesterday, a Facebook page "RIP Woolwich Soldier dedicated to him has already
received 1.2 million 'Likes'.

14.58: We're getting more details and reaction from the properties being
searched by police today.

Police have raided a flat on a housing estate in east Greenwich, southeast
London. A neighbour said that four people were led away from the ground floor
flat in Eastney Street at 6am this morning. Two children, aged 3 and 7, were
also taken away. Police vans and officers are stationed outside and the property
has been sealed.

Police are also conducting searches inside a large detached modern property in
the village of Saxilby, Lincolnshire. This is thought to belong to the father of
one of the suspects.

Plain clothes officers from the Met, supported by uniformed officers from the
Lincolnshire force, cordoned off the £365,000 four-bedroomed house just hours
after the soldier was hacked to death.

Neighbours there, who were reluctant to identify themselves, said they believed
that the man living at the house was called Tony and worked locally for the NHS.

One neighbour said: "The guy who lives there is called Tony but I haven't seen
his partner or his daughter for some time.

"He has lived there for about ten years. There used to be four children at the
property but I think he is now on his own.

"We don't see much of him but he does sometimes pop round to borrow things."

Another neighbour added: "I believe he works nights and is a manager with the
NHS but I can't remember ever seeing his son."

Another said: "They moved to the house in about 2004, but they are very
secretive. They always keep the blinds and curtains shut at the front, and at
the back as well, and they never go in the garden.

"My children actually call them the 'the burbs' after a Tom Hanks film about
strange neighbours. I wouldn't know them if I walked past them in the street
because they are so secretive."

Another neighbour added: "I know there has been a little bit of trouble at the
property. There is often rubbish and furniture on the front, even though there
are expensive cars there. One of the other neighbours cleared the mess up
because he doesn't want his house price to be affected.

"I don't often see them, but I do remember when there was a little earthquake in
the area I saw a woman hanging outside of the upstairs window."

Meanwhile, in Romford, police have searched a flat reported to belong to
Blessing Daniels. She is believed to be a relative of the suspect, Michael
Adebolajo.

14.28: As yesterday's horrific attack unfolded, one of the first eyewitnesses to
tweet about events, was @boyadee.

His tweets, including a description of a female police officer taking out one
the suspects "like Robocop", quickly went viral.

Today, the musician and film-maker is back on Twitter, apologising to media
outlets for ignoring them. He also claims that he's been offered £75,000 by
media outlets to tell his story. He tweets that he turned them all down. "This
story is not about ME And doesn't need to be sensationalised anymore by me
selling my story for a few bucks," he tweets.

14.16: Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, has just tweeted this picture of him
and the Prime Minister, David Cameron, meeting community leaders in Woolwich. Mr
Johnson then tweeted "Clear & overwhelming message from the community meeting -
London won't be divided by this sickening atrocity."

The Metropolitan Police is urging anyone who filmed or took photos as
yesterday's events unfolded to send them to woolwich@metincident.co.uk

1359: More from our Crime Editor, Sean O'Neill, on what the security services
knew about the two suspects in the Woolwich murder. He writes:

The names of both men figured in MI5 counter-terrorism operations but neither
was seen as the key figure in the plots under investigation. At least one -
Adebolajo - is understood to have tried to travel overseas to fight jihad in the
recent past but it is not clear where in the world he was planning to go.

One source said that the attack in Woolwich could have been planned and executed
in a couple of hours and was almost impossible to intercept.

There is understood to have been nothing in the intelligence assessment of
either suspect that indicated they were about to launch an attack imminently.

1338: Ed Miliband described the killing as "an act of complete cowardice" and
offered the Government Labour's full support in responding to the outrage.

"This was an appalling and horrific murder and all of my condolences are with
the families and friends of the victim, and indeed with our troops because they
serve incredibly bravely all around the world and they've seen one of their own
murdered in an act of complete cowardice," he said in a televised statement.

Such attacks were doomed to fail. "We are a united country, not a divided
country, and anyone who tries to divide us will not succeed.

"I think it is right that troops continue to wear their uniform. One of the ways
we must ensure that terror doesn't win is by us going about our normal
business."

1326: Lord Carlile of Berriew, QC, the Government's former anti-terror watchdog,
said today that the killing should provoke a "pause for thought" on the decision
to drop a Bill extending police and security service powers to monitor
communciations.

He was backed by Lord Reid of Cardowan, the former Labour Home Secretary, who
said that the measure was "essential" to combat terrorism.

Lord Reid warned that it could otherwise take "some huge tragedy" to show that
the decision not to press ahead with the measure was wrong.

A Communications Data Bill extending powers to store details of online
communications, including time, duration, originator and recipient of a
communication would have allowed police and security services to store people's
web browsing history and details of messages sent on social media, webmail and
internet voice calls.

1316: Lucky Awale told today how she and her sister came across the attack as
they walked home. "When we got near we saw this guy with dark clothes holding
the knife and talking like a crazy man, saying 'This Government needs to
change', things like that. He wasn't scared, he was saying, 'Call the police',"
she said.

"We are scared as a community today. My sister lives near here and she is scared
to come out, she is scared of the EDL and everything.

"Our kids are big enough to go to school by themselves but today we had to take
them because we are scared.

"We are just asking for people not to take the wrong impression, the wrong idea,
and take revenge on Muslims."

She said the men could not be real Muslims but suggested that they had their own
reasons for doing it. "We live multiculturally, all kinds of people live here,
all kinds of religions," she added. "For incidents like this to happen in the
name of Muslims, it sends the wrong impression to people like the EDL, thinking
that Muslims would be like that."

1304: The Help for Heroes website has crashed, apparently under the number of
people trying to make a donation in honour of the soldier who was killed
yesterday in Woolwich.

On Twitter, many people said they would wear Help for Heroes T-shirts to work or
hold fundraising events for the charity.

Michael Vaughan, the former England cricket captain, tweeted: "Let's get it
trending... #HelpforHeroeshonourday. May 22nd... All wear Help for Heroes
T-shirts to work."

The Facebook tribute page RIP Woolwich Soldier has had 1,173,552 likes.

1227: Tom Coughlan, our Defence Correspondent, reports on an interesting move
from the MoD: it has now reversed its earlier instruction to soldiers not to
wear their uniforms in public.

In a statement, the MoD said: "In light of yesterday's events and the emerging
situation, the military Chain of Command introduced a package of immediate
reactive security measures on a precautionary basis."

"Following a review of the situation this morning a decision has been taken to
relax some of these temporary measures imposed yesterday, including advice to
members of the Armed Forces in London not to wear uniform outside of defence
establishments."

"The best way we can defeat terrorism is to carry on as normal and that includes
our personnel wearing their uniform."

Roland Watson, our Political Editor reports that the two Woolwich killers were
known to the security services.

"Their names were on a file," said senior Whitehall sources. That did not
necessarily point to internal failings, they stressed.

1221: Our Crime Editor, Sean O'Neill, reports on the alleged links of one of
Woolwich murder suspects to the banned extremist group al-Muhajiroun.

Anjem Choudary, who headed al-Muhajiroun, said that Michael Adebolajo had
attended demonstrations and meetings called by his group. "He is familiar to me,
I recognise the name, he was a revert to Islam and was known by the name
Mujahid," Mr Choudary said.

"I recall him attending demonstrations that the group organised or meetings at
which I spoke."

Mr Choudary said he did not think he had seen Adebolajo for two years or more
and did not know where he had been worshipping or what groups he might have been
involved with since.

He added: "The internet is the most powerful radicalising force nowadays, people
are doing DIY jihad and that will continue as long as David Cameron pursues this
foreign policy."

Al Muhajiroun was set up by the radical cleric Omar Bakri Mohammed who was
excluded from Britain in the wake of the 7/7 bombings. Mr Choudary took over
leadership of the group in Britain until it was banned.

It continued to organise under a number of different banners for a number of
years. Mr Choudary still organises meetings and demonstrations but not under the
name of any formal grouping.

Mr Choudary, who grew up in Woolwich and attended Mulgrave primary school close
to the scene of the murder, said Adebolajo had converted to Islam in around 2003
and for a while been a regular attender at al-Muhajiroun events.

He added: "He has been around on and off the scene for quite some time. I spoke
to Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed this morning and he remembers his face too.

"I wouldn't say he was a member of our group but he was around and about until
two years ago when he disappeared and I don't know who he associated with after
that.

"He was like many of the young men who come to us - very quiet, kind, a pleasant
character. What happened yesterday was a shock for all of us.

"But as he said himself to the camera, this is all the result of British foreign
policy. He made that clear."

1216: The Metropolitan police also say they are placing an extra 1,200 police
officers on London's streets in a bid to give reassurance to communities.

1152 After complaints by witnesses that police did not arrive at the scene of
the attack for around 20 minutes yesterday, the Metropolitan Police responded
rather defensively this morning. They say the first units were on the scene on
Artillery Place within nine minutes of the first 999 call.

Assistant Commissioner Simon Byrne said: "I would like to address some of the
speculation as to how long it took the Met to respond yesterday as this incident
started to unfold.

"We first received a 999 call from the public at 2.20pm stating a man was being
attacked, further 999 calls stated that the attackers were in possession of a
gun. We had officers at the scene within nine minutes of receiving that first
999 call.

"Once that information about a gun or guns being present was known firearms
officers were assigned at 2.24pm. Firearms officers were there and dealing with
the incident 10 minutes after they were assigned, 14 minutes after the first
call to the Met."

1147: Fiona Hamilton has more details on Michael Adebolajo. She reports that the
28-year-old suspect grew up Romford in Essex.

Schoolfriends at Marshalls High School said that Adebolajo was a "regular guy"
who converted to Islam after attending Havering Sixth Form College.

He is thought to have attended Greenwich University and was previously
registered at student housing near the university.

One school friend told The Times: "In school he was always smiling, always
happy, bit of a joker..in 6th (form) I noticed he changed a little. But he was
friendly, always smiling. It's such a shock."

Adebolajo has a younger brother and older sister, whose address in Romford was
being searched this morning by police. His father is thought be an NHS worker:
his address in Lincoln was also being searched this morning.

1139: The Prime Minister has just given a statement outside Downing Street.
Calling the attack a "betrayal of Islam", he said: "The people who did this were
trying to divide us. They should know something like this will only bring us
together and make us stronger."

The PM's statement in full was as follows:

"What happened yesterday in Woolwich has sickened us all. On our televisions
last night - and in our newspapers this morning - we have all seen images that
are deeply shocking. The people who did this were trying to divide us.They
should know: something like this will only bring us together and make us
stronger. Today our thoughts are with the victim - and with his family.They are
grieving for a loved one... And we have lost a brave soldier.

"This morning I have chaired a meeting of COBRA. And I want to thank the police
and security services for the incredible work they do to keep our country
safe.There are police investigations and security service operations underway -
so obviously there is a limit on what I can say.

"But already a number of things are clear. First, this country will be
absolutely resolute in its stand against violent extremism and terror.We will
never give in to terror - or terrorism - in any of its forms. Second, this view
is shared by every community in our country. This was not just an attack on
Britain - and on our British way of life.

"It was also a betrayal of Islam - and of the Muslim communities who give so
much to our country. There is nothing in Islam that justifies this truly
dreadful act. We will defeat violent extremism by standing together... ...by
backing our police and security services... ...and above all by challenging the
poisonous narrative of extremism on which this violence feeds.

"Britain works with our international partners to make the world safe from
terrorism. Terrorism that has taken more Muslim lives than any other religion.
It is an utter perversion of the truth to pretend anything different.

"That is why there is absolutely no justification for these acts... ...and the
fault for them lies solely and purely with the sickening individuals who carried
out this appalling attack.

"Confronting extremism is a job for us all. And the fact that our communities
will unite in doing this was vividly demonstrated... ...by the brave cub pack
leader - Ingrid Loyau-Kennett - who confronted one of the attackers on the
streets of Woolwich yesterday afternoon.

"When told by the attacker that he wanted to start a war in London... ...she
replied 'You're going to lose. It's only you versus many.'

"She spoke for us all.The Police and Security Services will follow every lead...
...turn over every piece of evidence... ...make every connection... ...and will
not rest until we know every single detail of what happened and we've brought
all of those responsible to justice.

"I know from three years as being Prime Minister that the police and
intelligence agencies work around the clock to keep us safe from violent
extremists.I watch their work every week. They do an outstanding job.They show
incredible heroism, much of which cannot be reported.

"They have my staunch support and the support of the whole country. The point
that the two suspects in this horrific attack were known to the Security
services has been widely reported. You would not expect me to comment on this
when a criminal investigation is ongoing.

"But what I can say is this. As is the normal practice in these sorts of cases,
the Independent Police Complaints Commission will be able to review the actions
of the police and the Intelligence and Security Committee will be able to do the
same for the wider agencies.

"But nothing should be done to get in the way of their absolutely vital work.
After an event like this, it is natural that questions will be asked about what
additional steps can be taken to keep us safe. I will make sure those questions
are asked and answered. But I am not in favour of knee-jerk responses. The
Police have responded with heightened security and activity - and that is right.

"But one of the best ways of defeating terrorism is to go about our normal
lives. And that is what we shall all do."

1133: David Cameron has just tweeted: "I will be making a statement shortly. One
of the best ways to defeat terrorism is to go about our normal lives."

1130: The suspect who was seen talking on camera with bloodied hands is being
named as Michael Adebolajo, 28. The house in Lincolnshire which is being
searched by police is believed to belong to a family member.

1122: Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, is to visit the scene of the attack
this morning. His office said he would speak to senior Metropolitan Police
officers and seek to send out a message of reassurance to Woolwich residents and
other Londoners. Mr Johnson has already said this morning: "Everything I am
hearing leads me to think that Londoners can go about their business in the
normal way and we are going to bring the killers to justice."

1107: One of the two men involved in the attack was known to a banned Islamist
organisation al-Muhajiroun and went by the name of Mujahid, The Independent
newspaper is reporting this morning. Anjem Choudary, the former leader of the
group, told the paper that he had known the man who was seen on video in the
immediate aftermath of yesterday's killing

1058: Scotland Yard has confirmed that the man killed was a serving soldier who
has yet to be formally identified. The force said that in line with his family's
wishes his identity will not be released at this stage. A post mortem is
expected to be conducted later today.

1042: A caller to BBC Radio Londonthis morning has claimed he knew one of the
attackers from the Lewisham area of London and had been so disturbed by what the
man said that he had considered going to the police.

The caller, identified only as Abdullah, said he saw one of the attack suspects
"about two weeks ago". He told the Vanessa Feltz programme that "these guys
don't come to the mosque with the rest of us; they rent a hall elsewhere and
pray there".

He said he heard the man talk passionately about events in Syria, Afghanistan
and Iraq and "found the conversation so disturbing (...) that I asked other
(Muslim) brothers for advice.

"I said there is a brother around me who is speaking things, which if he acts on
them, will cause problems for him and for those around him, maybe even death.
Shall I tell the police?"

He said he was advised to "leave him for a while and if he saw him again to
speak to him". If he was still saying the same kinds of things, Abdullah said,
he was advised them maybe he should tell the police.

Abduallah then told Ms Feltz: "I haven't seen him since. When I saw him on the
news yesterday, I nearly fainted."

1033 Our Crime Correspondent, Fiona Hamilton has just tweeted that she
understands that the dead soldier was a Royal Fusilier

1027: More details on who attended this morning's emergency Cobra meeting. On
the list: Home Secretary Theresa May, Defence Secretary Philip Hammond, Sir
Bernard Hogan-Howe and Assistant Commissioner Cressida Dick, minister for faith
and communities Baroness Warsi, Communities Secretary Eric Pickles and
intelligence agencies. The Mayor of London, Boris Johnson also attended the
meeting.

The meeting was updated by police and agencies about the continuing
investigation. The MoD briefed on protective security measures.

Downing Street says that the meeting also discussed community cohesion and "the
strength and unity of response from Muslim community leaders was recognised and
commended by ministers and others around the table",

1016 A house in Lincolnshire, believed to belong to a relative of one of the
suspects is currently being searched by Met police officers, reports Laura
Dixon. They have set up a cordon around the house.

1000: Soldiers are being advised not to wear their uniforms in public until
further notice, Sky News reports. David Cameron has chaired a meeting of the
Cobra crisis committee, which lasted about an hour. The PM is expected to make a
statement at 11am.

0950: More reaction from Islamic organisations condemning yesterday's attack.
The Greenwich Islamic Centre has realeased a statement: "The Muslims of the
Greenwich Islamic Centre in the Royal Borough of Greenwich today condemn in the
strongest terms the barbaric murder of a serving Army officer and share the
grief and sorrow of the nation. Our hearts go out to the family, colleagues and
friends of the victim of this despicable and horrific tragedy.

"We are all very deeply shocked and saddened to have witnessed a terrible crime
in our neighbourhood.

"The local Muslim community has always enjoyed an excellent relationship with
the people from all walks of life regardless of their religion, colour or ethnic
background.

"We do not and will never support such evil acts, and strongly suggest that both
of these men should be severely punished as criminal and not as so-called
'Muslims' for the crime they have committed, with full force of law."

The statement, issued by the board of trustees, appealed for calm.

"At this moment of confusion, uncertainty and naturally highly charged emotions,
we earnestly appeal to the media not to rush to judgment and wait for the final
findings by the law enforcement agencies.

"Let the response of our nation be mature and thoughtful. This is a moment of
prayer, unity and not of hasty reaction."

0926: One of the heroes to emerge from yesterday's attack is Ingrid
Loyau-Kennett, a Brownies leader and first aider who checked to see if anything
could be done for the victim, then urged the attackers to lay down their
weapons.

She told afterwards how she deliberately kept one attacker talking, to divert
his attention from the women and children who were gathered around staring at
the scene of carnage.

Ms Loyau-Kennett said that even though she could hear sirens, the police did not
turn up for several minutes. "There were mothers and kids there, so I tried to
distract him. I didn't want him to be unsettled."

She asked the youth why he was not leaving the scene before the police arrived.

"He said: 'If they come I will shoot them'," said Ms Loyau-Kennett. "He had a
revolver, though it didn't look to me to be in good condition. He said, 'I will
shoot them and I will kill them'. I said, 'They will shoot you'. He said, 'It
doesn't matter'."

Basil Baradaran, Ms Loyau-Kennett's son, tweeted proudly: "Of all the things
today: I didn't expect a suspected terror attack in my town and my mum, of all
people, to talk to the attackers."

0905: Graham Wilders, a local resident who came upon the scene as the attack was
in progress, says that at first he thought the attackers were trying to
resuscitate a car accident victim, and walked up to try to help.

"Then the big tall black guy dressed in black pulled his handgun out, and I
peeled away towards my back gate," Mr Wilders told Sky News.

"Then a bunch of schoolkids came up and I was more concerned about them, because
I saw the handgun. So I shouted out to the two teachers with the group of Year 4
kids, that's eight-year-olds: 'Get the kids back into school straight away', as
I couldn't believe they were just walking past."

There were already police at the scene, said Mr Wilders, so he went to speak to
two officers standing in Rectory Place. "They said they were waiting for the
Trojan [armed response] team," Mr Wilders continued.

"Then a police officer screamed at me to get myself indoors, and then all I
heard was 'Bang Bang Bang'. I didn't know if it was [the attacker] shooting,
because he had the handgun, or anybody else.

"So I just went back inside, and all I was concerned about was getting the kids
back into the school, and my son, because my son goes to that school."

0901: Julie Siddiqi, of the Islamic Society of Britain, says: "The people who
did this act yesterday do not speak in my name, do not speak for my community or
the rest of the country. We have to come out with the strongest condemnation,
which is what I'm seeing this morning.

"All of the Muslim organisations have come out with the strongest possible terms
to say there is absolutely no excuse whatsoever, no justification for anything
like this.

"This is one of the most shocking things I have seen in recent years and to have
the people of Woolwich have to experience that so close to them, I just feel is
absolutely horrific."

Ms Siddiqi warned that there was likely to be a backlash after the incident. "We
can't allow the voices of Nick Griffin and the far Right to become louder than
ours in the coming days. We will say what we have to say and it gives us even
more incentive to speak out and come together and not allow people like that to
divide us as a country," she told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

0858: A Facebook page called RIP Woolwich Soldier set up in memory of
yesterday's victim has so far received 1,073,286 "likes".

The family of the dead soldier has been told of his death, MoD sources say.

0842: Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, has tried to dampen community
tensions, telling reporters before he headed to Downing Street to attend the
Cobra meeting: "It is completely wrong to blame this killing on Islam. It is
equally wrong to draw a link between this and UK foreign policy."

0835: David Cameron is due to convene a meeting of Cobra, the Whitehall
co-ordination committee that meets in security emergencies, in ten minutes'
time, at 0845.

0823: Colonel Richard Kemp, former commander of British forces in Afghanistan
who sat on the Cobra committee after the 7/7 bombings, says that he personally
would advise against any move to order British soldiers not to wear their
uniforms on the streets of their own country in response to yesterday's attack.

Internet censorship and tighter controls on radical preaching should however be
considered, he added.

"It is possible further attacks of this kind will be inspired by this attack.
One of the biggest priorities for the security services is to look at the role
of the internet in motivating people, and look very carefully at which radical
sites should be suppressed on the internet; as well as the more radical
preaching in mosques in this country, which has helped to radicalise people and
turn them to terrorism before. That's something we should be putting more
resources into."

0817: Baroness Neville-Jones, a former security minister and former chairman of
the Joint Intelligence Committee, says that the police investigation has an
advantage because the two suspects are still alive, and in possession of a large
quantity of potential information.

She felt the attack had the hallmarks of a "lone wolf" operation, but said that
if there were links to other terrorists or groups at home or abroad "then there
is potentially a much bigger problem".

Lone wolf attackers were hard to spot because there were usually very few
outward signs in advance that the intelligence services could pick up on, she
told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

0814 Colonel Kemp tells the BBC that the first priority for Cobra this morning
would be try to find out if there are any other potential terrorists connected
to yesterday's attackers, who might be planning a second wave of attacks.

"It doesn't look like it to me," he added.

The second priority would be to plan for how to respond in case this apparent
lone wolf attack - of a type long feared by the security services - prompts a
series of copycat attacks.

"The third thing is to try to find ways of reducing community tension, which is
one of the main aims of this attack - to try to set people against each other,"
Colonel Kemp said.

0642: The BBC is reporting that senior Whitehall sources have confirmed that the
man killed in the attack was a serving member of the Armed Forces.

0605 A car believed to have been used in the attack was taken away during the
night. The blue vehicle, which appeared to have collided with a road sign in
John Wilson Street, was covered with a red tarpaulin and taken away by a tow
truck

0600: David Cameron has flown back to London, cutting short a trip to France, to
head a Cobra emergency response committee meeting with the new head of MI5 this
morning. Cobra, which convened last night, will meet again at 8am.

0555: Two men were arrested overnight after attacking mosques in different areas
in London. A 43-year-old man reportedly walked into a mosque with a knife in
Braintree, Essex, while a second man was arrested after police in Kent were
called to reports of criminal damage at a mosque in Gillingham.

Around 250 supporters of the far-Right English Defence League scuffled with
police in the centre of Woolwich last night.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 2:58 PM GMT

Live: Woolwich terror attack day two;
*Suspects known to security services *One named as Michael Adebolajo*Suspects
under guard in hospitals *Police search Romford and Lincolnshire
properties*Police hit back at criticism of response time

BYLINE: Ruth Elkins and Jenny Booth

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 4570 words


14.28: As yesterday's horrific attack unfolded, one of the first eyewitnesses to
tweet about events, was @boyadee.

His tweets, including a description of a female police officer taking out one
the suspects "like Robocop" quickly went viral.

Today, the musician and filmmaker is back on Twitter, apologising to media
outlets for ignoring them. He also claims he's been offered £75K by media
outlets to tell his story. He tweets that he turned them all down. "This story
is not about ME And doesn't need to be sensationalised anymore by me selling my
story for a few bucks," he tweets.

14.16: Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, has just tweeted this picture of him
and the Prime Minister, David Cameron meeting with community leaders in
Woolwich. Mr Johnson then tweeted "Clear & overwhelming message from the
community meeting - London won't be divided by this sickening atrocity."

The Metropolitan Police is urging anyone who filmed or took photos as
yesterday's events unfolded to send them to woolwich@metincident.co.uk

1359: More from Crime Editor Sean O'Neill on what the security services knew
about the two suspects in the Woolwich murder. Sean writes:

The names of both men figured in MI5 counter-terrorism operations but neither
was seen as the key figure in the plots under investigation. At least one -
Adebolajo - is understood to have tried to travel overseas to fight jihad in the
recent past but it is not clear where in the world he was planning to go.

One source said the attack in Woolwich could have been planned and executed in a
couple of hours and was almost impossible to intercept.

There is understood to have been nothing in the intelligence assessment of
either suspect that indicated they were about to launch an attack imminently.

1338: Ed Miliband described the killing as "an act of complete cowardice" and
offered the Government Labour's full support in responding to the outrage.

"This was an appalling and horrific murder and all of my condolences are with
the families and friends of the victim, and indeed with our troops because they
serve incredibly bravely all around the world and they've seen one of their own
murdered in an act of complete cowardice," Mr Miliband said in a televised
statement.

He said that such attacks were doomed to fail. "We are a united country, not a
divided country and anyone who tries to divide us will not succeed.

"I think it is right that troops continue to wear their uniform. One of the ways
we must ensure that terror doesn't win is by us going about our normal
business."

1326: Lord Carlile of Berriew, QC, the Government's former anti-terror watchdog,
said today that the killing should provoke a "pause for thought" on the decision
to drop a Bill extending police and security service powers to monitor
communciations.

He was backed by Lord Reid of Cardowan, the former Labour Home Secretary, who
said that the measure was "essential" to combat terrorism.

Lord Reid warned that it could otherwise take "some huge tragedy" to show that
the decision not to press ahead with the measure was wrong.

A Communications Data Bill extending powers to store details of online
communications, including time, duration, originator and recipient of a
communication would have allowed police and security services to store people's
web browsing history and details of messages sent on social media, webmail and
internet voice calls.

1316: Lucky Awale told today how she and her sister came across the attack as
they walked home. "When we got near we saw this guy with dark clothes holding
the knife and talking like a crazy man, saying 'this Government needs to
change', things like that. He wasn't scared, he was saying, 'Call the police',"
she said.

"We are scared as a community today. My sister lives near here and she is scared
to come out, she is scared of the EDL and everything.

"Our kids are big enough to go to school by themselves but today we had to take
them because we are scared.

"We are just asking for people not to take the wrong impression, the wrong idea,
and take revenge on Muslims."

She said the men could not be real Muslims but suggested they had their own
reasons for doing it. "We live multiculturally, all kinds of people live here,
all kinds of religions," she added. "For incidents like this to happen in the
name of Muslims, it sends the wrong impression to people like the EDL, thinking
that Muslims would be like that."

1304: The Help for Heroes website has crashed, apparently under the number of
people trying to make a donation in honour of the soldier who was killed
yesterday in Woolwich.

On Twitter, many people said they would wear Help For Heroes T-shirts to work or
hold fundraising events for the charity.

Michael Vaughan, the former England cricket captain, tweeted: "Let's get it
trending... #HelpforHeroeshonourday. May 22nd... All wear Help for Heroes
t-shirts to work."

The Facebook tribute page RIP Woolwich Soldier has had 1,173,552 likes.

1227: Tom Coughlan, our Defence Correspondent, reports on an interesting move
from the MoD: it has now reversed its earlier instruction to soldiers not to
wear their uniforms in public.

In a statement, the MoD said: "In light of yesterday's events and the emerging
situation, the military Chain of Command introduced a package of immediate
reactive security measures on a precautionary basis."

"Following a review of the situation this morning a decision has been taken to
relax some of these temporary measures imposed yesterday, including advice to
members of the Armed Forces in London not to wear uniform outside of defence
establishments."

"The best way we can defeat terrorism is to carry on as normal and that includes
our personnel wearing their uniform."

Roland Watson, our Political Editor reports that the two Woolwich killers were
known to the security services.

"Their names were on a file," said senior Whitehall sources. That did not
necessarily point to internal failings, they stressed.

1221: Our Crime Editor, Sean O'Neill reports on the alleged links of one of
Woolwich murder suspects to the banned extremist group al-Muhajiroun.

Anjem Choudary, who headed al-Muhajiroun, said that Michael Adebolajo had
attended demonstrations and meetings called by his group. "He is familiar to me,
I recognise the name, he was a revert to Islam and was known by the name
Mujahid," Mr Choudary said.

"I recall him attending demonstrations that the group organised or meetings at
which I spoke."

Mr Choudary said he did not think he had seen Adebolajo for two years or more
and did not know where he had been worshipping or what groups he might have been
involved with since.

He added: "The internet is the most powerful radicalising force nowadays, people
are doing DIY jihad and that will continue as long as David Cameron pursues this
foreign policy."

Al Muhajiroun was set up by the radical cleric Omar Bakri Mohammed who was
excluded from Britain in the wake of the 7/7 bombings. Mr Choudary took over
leadership of the group in Britain until it was banned.

It continued to organise under a number of different banners for a number of
years. Mr Choudary still organises meetings and demonstrations but not under the
name of any formal grouping.

Mr Choudary, who grew up in Woolwich and attended Mulgrave primary school close
to the scene of the murder, said Adebolajo had converted to Islam in around 2003
and for a while been a regular attender at al-Muhajiroun events.

He added: "He has been around on and off the scene for quite some time. I spoke
to Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed this morning and he remembers his face too.

"I wouldn't say he was a member of our group but he was around and about until
two years ago when he disappeared and I don't know who he associated with after
that.

"He was like many of the young men who come to us - very quiet, kind, a pleasant
character. What happened yesterday was a shock for all of us.

"But as he said himself to the camera, this is all the result of British foreign
policy. He made that clear."

1216: The Metropolitan police also say they are placing an extra 1,200 police
officers on London's streets in a bid to give reassurance to communities.

1152 After complaints by witnesses that police did not arrive at the scene of
the attack for around 20 minutes yesterday, the Metropolitan Police responded
rather defensively this morning. They say the first units were on the scene on
Artillery Place within nine minutes of the first 999 call.

Assistant Commissioner Simon Byrne said: "I would like to address some of the
speculation as to how long it took the Met to respond yesterday as this incident
started to unfold.

"We first received a 999 call from the public at 2.20pm stating a man was being
attacked, further 999 calls stated that the attackers were in possession of a
gun. We had officers at the scene within nine minutes of receiving that first
999 call.

"Once that information about a gun or guns being present was known firearms
officers were assigned at 2.24pm. Firearms officers were there and dealing with
the incident 10 minutes after they were assigned, 14 minutes after the first
call to the Met."

1147: Fiona Hamilton has more details on Michael Adebolajo. She reports that the
28-year-old suspect grew up Romford in Essex.

Schoolfriends at Marshalls High School said that Adebolajo was a "regular guy"
who converted to Islam after attending Havering Sixth Form College.

He is thought to have attended Greenwich University and was previously
registered at student housing near the university.

One school friend told The Times: "In school he was always smiling, always
happy, bit of a joker..in 6th (form) I noticed he changed a little. But he was
friendly, always smiling. It's such a shock."

Adebolajo has a younger brother and older sister, whose address in Romford was
being searched this morning by police. His father is thought be an NHS worker:
his address in Lincoln was also being searched this morning.

1139: The Prime Minister has just given a statement outside Downing Street.
Calling the attack a "betrayal of Islam", he said: "The people who did this were
trying to divide us. They should know something like this will only bring us
together and make us stronger."

The PM's statement in full was as follows:

"What happened yesterday in Woolwich has sickened us all. On our televisions
last night - and in our newspapers this morning - we have all seen images that
are deeply shocking. The people who did this were trying to divide us.They
should know: something like this will only bring us together and make us
stronger. Today our thoughts are with the victim - and with his family.They are
grieving for a loved one... And we have lost a brave soldier.

"This morning I have chaired a meeting of COBRA. And I want to thank the police
and security services for the incredible work they do to keep our country
safe.There are police investigations and security service operations underway -
so obviously there is a limit on what I can say.

"But already a number of things are clear. First, this country will be
absolutely resolute in its stand against violent extremism and terror.We will
never give in to terror - or terrorism - in any of its forms. Second, this view
is shared by every community in our country. This was not just an attack on
Britain - and on our British way of life.

"It was also a betrayal of Islam - and of the Muslim communities who give so
much to our country. There is nothing in Islam that justifies this truly
dreadful act. We will defeat violent extremism by standing together... ...by
backing our police and security services... ...and above all by challenging the
poisonous narrative of extremism on which this violence feeds.

"Britain works with our international partners to make the world safe from
terrorism. Terrorism that has taken more Muslim lives than any other religion.
It is an utter perversion of the truth to pretend anything different.

"That is why there is absolutely no justification for these acts... ...and the
fault for them lies solely and purely with the sickening individuals who carried
out this appalling attack.

"Confronting extremism is a job for us all. And the fact that our communities
will unite in doing this was vividly demonstrated... ...by the brave cub pack
leader - Ingrid Loyau-Kennett - who confronted one of the attackers on the
streets of Woolwich yesterday afternoon.

"When told by the attacker that he wanted to start a war in London... ...she
replied 'You're going to lose. It's only you versus many.'

"She spoke for us all.The Police and Security Services will follow every lead...
...turn over every piece of evidence... ...make every connection... ...and will
not rest until we know every single detail of what happened and we've brought
all of those responsible to justice.

"I know from three years as being Prime Minister that the police and
intelligence agencies work around the clock to keep us safe from violent
extremists.I watch their work every week. They do an outstanding job.They show
incredible heroism, much of which cannot be reported.

"They have my staunch support and the support of the whole country. The point
that the two suspects in this horrific attack were known to the Security
services has been widely reported. You would not expect me to comment on this
when a criminal investigation is ongoing.

"But what I can say is this. As is the normal practice in these sorts of cases,
the Independent Police Complaints Commission will be able to review the actions
of the police and the Intelligence and Security Committee will be able to do the
same for the wider agencies.

"But nothing should be done to get in the way of their absolutely vital work.
After an event like this, it is natural that questions will be asked about what
additional steps can be taken to keep us safe. I will make sure those questions
are asked and answered. But I am not in favour of knee-jerk responses. The
Police have responded with heightened security and activity - and that is right.

"But one of the best ways of defeating terrorism is to go about our normal
lives. And that is what we shall all do."

1133: David Cameron has just tweeted: "I will be making a statement shortly. One
of the best ways to defeat terrorism is to go about our normal lives."

1130: The suspect who was seen talking on camera with bloodied hands is being
named as Michael Adebolajo, 28. The house in Lincolnshire which is being
searched by police is believed to belong to a family member.

1122: Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, is to visit the scene of the attack
this morning. His office said he would speak to senior Metropolitan Police
officers and seek to send out a message of reassurance to Woolwich residents and
other Londoners. Mr Johnson has already said this morning: "Everything I am
hearing leads me to think that Londoners can go about their business in the
normal way and we are going to bring the killers to justice."

1107: One of the two men involved in the attack was known to a banned Islamist
organisation al-Muhajiroun and went by the name of Mujahid, The Independent
newspaper is reporting this morning. Anjem Choudary, the former leader of the
group, told the paper that he had known the man who was seen on video in the
immediate aftermath of yesterday's killing

1058: Scotland Yard has confirmed that the man killed was a serving soldier who
has yet to be formally identified. The force said that in line with his family's
wishes his identity will not be released at this stage. A post mortem is
expected to be conducted later today.

1042: A caller to BBC Radio Londonthis morning has claimed he knew one of the
attackers from the Lewisham area of London and had been so disturbed by what the
man said that he had considered going to the police.

The caller, identified only as Abdullah, said he saw one of the attack suspects
"about two weeks ago". He told the Vanessa Feltz programme that "these guys
don't come to the mosque with the rest of us; they rent a hall elsewhere and
pray there".

He said he heard the man talk passionately about events in Syria, Afghanistan
and Iraq and "found the conversation so disturbing (...) that I asked other
(Muslim) brothers for advice.

"I said there is a brother around me who is speaking things, which if he acts on
them, will cause problems for him and for those around him, maybe even death.
Shall I tell the police?"

He said he was advised to "leave him for a while and if he saw him again to
speak to him". If he was still saying the same kinds of things, Abdullah said,
he was advised them maybe he should tell the police.

Abduallah then told Ms Feltz: "I haven't seen him since. When I saw him on the
news yesterday, I nearly fainted."

1033 Our Crime Correspondent, Fiona Hamilton has just tweeted that she
understands that the dead soldier was a Royal Fusilier

1027: More details on who attended this morning's emergency Cobra meeting. On
the list: Home Secretary Theresa May, Defence Secretary Philip Hammond, Sir
Bernard Hogan-Howe and Assistant Commissioner Cressida Dick, minister for faith
and communities Baroness Warsi, Communities Secretary Eric Pickles and
intelligence agencies. The Mayor of London, Boris Johnson also attended the
meeting.

The meeting was updated by police and agencies about the continuing
investigation. The MoD briefed on protective security measures.

Downing Street says that the meeting also discussed community cohesion and "the
strength and unity of response from Muslim community leaders was recognised and
commended by ministers and others around the table",

1016 A house in Lincolnshire, believed to belong to a relative of one of the
suspects is currently being searched by Met police officers, reports Laura
Dixon. They have set up a cordon around the house.

1000: Soldiers are being advised not to wear their uniforms in public until
further notice, Sky News reports. David Cameron has chaired a meeting of the
Cobra crisis committee, which lasted about an hour. The PM is expected to make a
statement at 11am.

0950: More reaction from Islamic organisations condemning yesterday's attack.
The Greenwich Islamic Centre has realeased a statement: "The Muslims of the
Greenwich Islamic Centre in the Royal Borough of Greenwich today condemn in the
strongest terms the barbaric murder of a serving Army officer and share the
grief and sorrow of the nation. Our hearts go out to the family, colleagues and
friends of the victim of this despicable and horrific tragedy.

"We are all very deeply shocked and saddened to have witnessed a terrible crime
in our neighbourhood.

"The local Muslim community has always enjoyed an excellent relationship with
the people from all walks of life regardless of their religion, colour or ethnic
background.

"We do not and will never support such evil acts, and strongly suggest that both
of these men should be severely punished as criminal and not as so-called
'Muslims' for the crime they have committed, with full force of law."

The statement, issued by the board of trustees, appealed for calm.

"At this moment of confusion, uncertainty and naturally highly charged emotions,
we earnestly appeal to the media not to rush to judgment and wait for the final
findings by the law enforcement agencies.

"Let the response of our nation be mature and thoughtful. This is a moment of
prayer, unity and not of hasty reaction."

0926: One of the heroes to emerge from yesterday's attack is Ingrid
Loyau-Kennett, a Brownies leader and first aider who checked to see if anything
could be done for the victim, then urged the attackers to lay down their
weapons.

She told afterwards how she deliberately kept one attacker talking, to divert
his attention from the women and children who were gathered around staring at
the scene of carnage.

Ms Loyau-Kennett said that even though she could hear sirens, the police did not
turn up for several minutes. "There were mothers and kids there, so I tried to
distract him. I didn't want him to be unsettled."

She asked the youth why he was not leaving the scene before the police arrived.

"He said: 'If they come I will shoot them'," said Ms Loyau-Kennett. "He had a
revolver, though it didn't look to me to be in good condition. He said, 'I will
shoot them and I will kill them'. I said, 'They will shoot you'. He said, 'It
doesn't matter'."

Basil Baradaran, Ms Loyau-Kennett's son, tweeted proudly: "Of all the things
today: I didn't expect a suspected terror attack in my town and my mum, of all
people, to talk to the attackers."

0905: Graham Wilders, a local resident who came upon the scene as the attack was
in progress, says that at first he thought the attackers were trying to
resuscitate a car accident victim, and walked up to try to help.

"Then the big tall black guy dressed in black pulled his handgun out, and I
peeled away towards my back gate," Mr Wilders told Sky News.

"Then a bunch of schoolkids came up and I was more concerned about them, because
I saw the handgun. So I shouted out to the two teachers with the group of Year 4
kids, that's eight-year-olds: 'Get the kids back into school straight away', as
I couldn't believe they were just walking past."

There were already police at the scene, said Mr Wilders, so he went to speak to
two officers standing in Rectory Place. "They said they were waiting for the
Trojan [armed response] team," Mr Wilders continued.

"Then a police officer screamed at me to get myself indoors, and then all I
heard was 'Bang Bang Bang'. I didn't know if it was [the attacker] shooting,
because he had the handgun, or anybody else.

"So I just went back inside, and all I was concerned about was getting the kids
back into the school, and my son, because my son goes to that school."

0901: Julie Siddiqi, of the Islamic Society of Britain, says: "The people who
did this act yesterday do not speak in my name, do not speak for my community or
the rest of the country. We have to come out with the strongest condemnation,
which is what I'm seeing this morning.

"All of the Muslim organisations have come out with the strongest possible terms
to say there is absolutely no excuse whatsoever, no justification for anything
like this.

"This is one of the most shocking things I have seen in recent years and to have
the people of Woolwich have to experience that so close to them, I just feel is
absolutely horrific."

Ms Siddiqi warned that there was likely to be a backlash after the incident. "We
can't allow the voices of Nick Griffin and the far Right to become louder than
ours in the coming days. We will say what we have to say and it gives us even
more incentive to speak out and come together and not allow people like that to
divide us as a country," she told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

0858: A Facebook page called RIP Woolwich Soldier set up in memory of
yesterday's victim has so far received 1,073,286 "likes".

The family of the dead soldier has been told of his death, MoD sources say.

0842: Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, has tried to dampen community
tensions, telling reporters before he headed to Downing Street to attend the
Cobra meeting: "It is completely wrong to blame this killing on Islam. It is
equally wrong to draw a link between this and UK foreign policy."

0835: David Cameron is due to convene a meeting of Cobra, the Whitehall
co-ordination committee that meets in security emergencies, in ten minutes'
time, at 0845.

0823: Colonel Richard Kemp, former commander of British forces in Afghanistan
who sat on the Cobra committee after the 7/7 bombings, says that he personally
would advise against any move to order British soldiers not to wear their
uniforms on the streets of their own country in response to yesterday's attack.

Internet censorship and tighter controls on radical preaching should however be
considered, he added.

"It is possible further attacks of this kind will be inspired by this attack.
One of the biggest priorities for the security services is to look at the role
of the internet in motivating people, and look very carefully at which radical
sites should be suppressed on the internet; as well as the more radical
preaching in mosques in this country, which has helped to radicalise people and
turn them to terrorism before. That's something we should be putting more
resources into."

0817: Baroness Neville-Jones, a former security minister and former chairman of
the Joint Intelligence Committee, says that the police investigation has an
advantage because the two suspects are still alive, and in possession of a large
quantity of potential information.

She felt the attack had the hallmarks of a "lone wolf" operation, but said that
if there were links to other terrorists or groups at home or abroad "then there
is potentially a much bigger problem".

Lone wolf attackers were hard to spot because there were usually very few
outward signs in advance that the intelligence services could pick up on, she
told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

0814 Colonel Kemp tells the BBC that the first priority for Cobra this morning
would be try to find out if there are any other potential terrorists connected
to yesterday's attackers, who might be planning a second wave of attacks.

"It doesn't look like it to me," he added.

The second priority would be to plan for how to respond in case this apparent
lone wolf attack - of a type long feared by the security services - prompts a
series of copycat attacks.

"The third thing is to try to find ways of reducing community tension, which is
one of the main aims of this attack - to try to set people against each other,"
Colonel Kemp said.

0642: The BBC is reporting that senior Whitehall sources have confirmed that the
man killed in the attack was a serving member of the Armed Forces.

0605 A car believed to have been used in the attack was taken away during the
night. The blue vehicle, which appeared to have collided with a road sign in
John Wilson Street, was covered with a red tarpaulin and taken away by a tow
truck

0600: David Cameron has flown back to London, cutting short a trip to France, to
head a Cobra emergency response committee meeting with the new head of MI5 this
morning. Cobra, which convened last night, will meet again at 8am.

0555: Two men were arrested overnight after attacking mosques in different areas
in London. A 43-year-old man reportedly walked into a mosque with a knife in
Braintree, Essex, while a second man was arrested after police in Kent were
called to reports of criminal damage at a mosque in Gillingham.

Around 250 supporters of the far-Right English Defence League scuffled with
police in the centre of Woolwich last night.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 8:07 AM GMT

LIVE: Woolwich terror attack day two

BYLINE: Anne Barrowclough

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 166 words


0642: The BBC is reporting that senior Whitehall sources have confirmed that the
man killed in the attack was a serving member of the armed forces.

0605 A car believed to have been used in the attack was taken away during the
night. The blue vehicle, which appeared to have collided with a road sign in
John Wilson Street, was covered with a red tarpaulin and taken away by a tow
truck

0600: David Cameron has flown back to London, cutting short a trip to France, to
head a Cobra emergency response committee meeting with the new head of MI5 this
morning. Cobra, which convened last night, will meet again at 8 am.

0555: Overnight, two men were arrested after attacking mosques in different
areas in London. A 43-year-old man reportedly walked into a mosque with a knife
in Braintree, Essex, while a second man was arrested after police in Kent were
called to reports of criminal damage at a mosque in Gillingham

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 7:52 AM GMT

Soldier hacked to death in London terror attack

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill, Fiona Hamilton and Rhoda Buchanan

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 760 words


A soldier was hacked to death on a street in London yesterday in an Islamist
terrorist attack.

Two men carrying knives, meat cleavers and a firearm rammed their victim with a
car as he left the Royal Artillery barracks in Woolwich then began stabbing him
as he lay on the ground.

A number of witnesses said that the victim, who was wearing a Help For Heroes
T-shirt, was decapitated. The assailants then waited for about 20 minutes until
armed police arrived at the scene of the incident on John Wilson Street.

It is understood that they refused to drop their weapons and that at least one
of them rushed at police officers before both were shot.

One of the suspects was flown to hospital, where he is described as being in a
serious condition. The second suspect, who was less seriously injured, was taken
to a different hospital.

Video footage of the aftermath of the attack - the first terrorist murder in
mainland Britain since 2005 - was broadcast by ITV News last night. The video,
filmed on a mobile phone by a man who was on his way to a job interview, shows
one of the attackers, a young black man with a cleaver and a knife in his
bloodstained hands, talking calmly to the camera while the crumpled body of his
victim lies in the road behind him.

"We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you unless you leave us
alone," he says. "You people will never be safe ... The only reason we've done
this is because Muslims are dying by British soldiers every day. This is an eye
for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. I apologise that women had to witness this
today but in our lands women have to see the same. You people will never be
safe, remove your Government, they don't care about you."

ITV News said that it had broadcast only a short clip of the film because much
of the rest of the content was "too distressing" to show.

Twitter users began naming the man seen in the footage last night. A man calling
himself Abu Nusaybah said that he knew the suspect and described him as being
British-born and a Christian convert to Islam.

Last night it was claimed that one of the attackers was stopped last year from
travelling or was arrested on his way to join the terror group al-Shabaab to
fight in Somalia.

David Cameron, speaking in Paris last night, said that the murder was
"absolutely sickening" and there were "strong indications that it is a terrorist
incident". He cut short his visit and returned to London to chair a meeting of
the Government's Cobra emergency committee this morning.

Theresa May, the Home Secretary, chaired a meeting of the committee in Whitehall
last night after being briefed by the heads of MI5 and Scotland Yard.

The meeting was told that security at Woolwich and other London barracks had
been increased but the terrorist threat level, which stands at substantial,
remained unchanged, suggesting that there was no intelligence that further
attacks were imminent.

Buckingham Palace said that the Queen, who is due to visit the barracks next
week, was concerned and was being kept informed of developments.

Security agencies have been concerned for some time that terrorists, frustrated
by the success of police and MI5 in thwarting terrorist plots, would attempt a
low-tech, "self-starter" attack. Extremists have increasingly been discussing
attacks on the military, citing the British presence in Afghanistan as their
motivation.

Four men from Luton were jailed last month for plotting an attack on the
Territorial Army base in the town while three Londoners convicted of plotting
terrorism had discussed attacking a military funeral procession in Royal Wootton
Bassett.

The Muslim Council of Britain said that no cause justified such an "horrific
murder". A spokesman said: "This is a truly barbaric act that has no basis in
Islam and we condemn this unreservedly. Our thoughts are with the victim and his
family."

Anjem Choudary, a former leader of the banned radical group al-Muhajiroun,
tweeted last night: "If the British regime sends people to murder Muslims in
Iraq/Afghanistan, then it is bound to cause instability in the UK, time to
withdraw!"

Simon Bennett, a security expert, said that although many soldiers had been the
victims of IRA terrorism this was the first attack on Service personnel linked
to Islamists.

In 2007 police in Birmingham uncovered a plot to kidnap and behead a British
soldier on leave from Afghanistan.

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, said that two men
had been arrested, adding: "We have launched a murder investigation, being led
by the Counter Terrorism Command.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                       May 23, 2013 Thursday 7:03 AM GMT

LIVE: Woolwich terror attack day two

BYLINE: Anne Barrowclough

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 137 words


0605 A car believed to have been used in the attack was taken away during the
night. The blue vehicle, which appeared to have collided with a road sign in
John Wilson Street, was covered with a red tarpaulin and taken away by a tow
truck

0600: David Cameron has flown back to London, cutting short a trip to France, to
head a Cobra emergency response committee meeting with the new head of MI5 this
morning. Cobra, which convened last night, will meet again at 8 am.

0555: Overnight, two men were arrested after attacking mosques in different
areas in London. A 43-year-old man reportedly walked into a mosque with a knife
in Braintree, Essex, while a second man was arrested after police in Kent were
called to reports of criminal damage at a mosque in Gillingham

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Soldier hacked to death in London terror attack;
? Police shoot two Islamists outside barracks ; Soldier is hacked to death in
terror attack ; ? Assailant rants to camera after killing ; Soldier is hacked to
death in terror attack

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill;Fiona Hamilton ;Rhoda Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,7

LENGTH: 770 words


A soldier was hacked to death on a street in London yesterday in an Islamist
terrorist attack.

Two men carrying knives, meat cleavers and a firearm rammed their victim with a
car as he left the Royal Artillery barracks in Woolwich then began stabbing him
as he lay on the ground.

A number of witnesses said that the victim, who was wearing a Help For Heroes
T-shirt, was decapitated. The assailants then waited for about 20 minutes until
armed police arrived at the scene of the incident on John Wilson Street.

It is understood that they refused to drop their weapons and that at least one
of them rushed at police officers before both were shot.

One of the suspects was flown to hospital, where he is described as being in a
serious condition. The second suspect, who was less seriously injured, was taken
to a different hospital.

Video footage of the aftermath of the attack - the first terrorist murder in
mainland Britain since 2005 - was broadcast by ITV News last night. The video,
filmed on a mobile phone by a man who was on his way to a job interview, shows
one of the attackers, a young black man with a cleaver and a knife in his
bloodstained hands, talking calmly to the camera while the crumpled body of his
victim lies in the road behind him.

"We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you unless you leave us
alone," he says. "You people will never be safe ... The only reason we've done
this is because Muslims are dying by British soldiers every day. This is an eye
for an eye, a tooth for a Continued on page 7, col 5

Continued from page 1 tooth. I apologise that women had to witness this today
but in our lands women have to see the same. You people will never be safe,
remove your Government, they don't care about you."

ITV News said that it had broadcast only a short clip of the film because much
of the rest of the content was "too distressing" to show.

Twitter users began naming the man seen in the footage last night. A man calling
himslef Abu Nusaybah said that he knew the suspect and described him as being
British-born and a Christian convert to Islam.

David Cameron, speaking in Paris last night, said that the murder was
"absolutely sickening" and there were "strong indications that it is a terrorist
incident". He cut short his visit and returned to London to chair a meeting of
the Government's Cobra emergency committee this morning.

Theresa May, the Home Secretary, chaired a meeting of the committee in Whitehall
last night after being briefed by the heads of MI5 and Scotland Yard.

The meeting was told that security at Woolwich and other London barracks had
been increased but the terrorist threat level, which stands at substantial,
remained unchanged, suggesting that there was no intelligence that further
attacks were imminent.

Buckingham Palace said that the Queen, who is due to visit the barracks next
week, was concerned and was being kept informed of developments.

Security agencies have been concerned for some time that terrorists, frustrated
by the success of police and MI5 in thwarting terrorist plots, would attempt a
low-tech, "self-starter" attack. Extremists have increasingly been discussing
attacks on the military, citing the British presence in Afghanistan as their
motivation.

Four men from Luton were jailed last month for plotting an attack on the
Territorial Army base in the town while three Londoners convicted of plotting
terrorism had discussed attacking a military funeral procession in Royal Wootton
Bassett.

The Muslim Council of Britain said that no cause justified such an "horrific
murder". A spokesman said: "This is a truly barbaric act that has no basis in
Islam and we condemn this unreservedly.

Our thoughts are with the victim and his family."

Anjem Choudary, a former leader of the banned radical group al-Muhajiroun,
tweeted last night: "If the British regime sends people to murder Muslims in
Iraq/Afghanistan, then it is bound to cause instability in the UK, time to
withdraw!" Simon Bennett, a security expert, said although many soldiers had
been the victims of IRA terrorism this was the first attack on service personnel
linked to an "Islamic fundamentalist agenda".

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan Police Commissionersaid: "It is hard to
comprehend the shocking and horrific scenes we have seen on a busy street as
Londoners went about their day as normal.

"We have launched a murder investigation, being led by the Counter Terrorism
Command. Two men have been arrested in connection with that murder. I would urge
everyone to remain calm and have a measured response to today''s tragic events."

Continued from page 1 tooth. [...]

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The second suspect, still holding his knife, is confronted by a woman
One of the suspects, filmed by a passer-by whose video was broadcast by ITV
News, said that the attack was in revenge for the killing of Muslims by British
soldiers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Times Series

                                  May 23, 2013

MP for Hendon criticises Woolwich terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Ruth Halkon

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 171  words


The MP for Hendon Matthew Offord has condemned yesterday's suspected terrorist
attack in Woolwich and said he would be working to reassure people in his
constituency.

He said: "The people who live in Hendon are concerned about the impact this
terrorist attack will have on the local area.

"I will be spending the next few days with the Muslim and Jewish communities to
make sure this doesn't happen again."

Mr Offord added he was shocked the two men who perpetrated the attack, killing a
soldier with a machete in a busy Woolwich street at 2.40pm yesterday, "were not
concerned about being caught".

Greater London Assembly Member for Barnet and Camden Andrew Dismore criticised
Mr Offord for getting involved, adding "the worst thing he can do is get in the
way".

Mr Dismore, who was MP for Hendon during the 9/11 and 7/7 attacks, said: "He
should let the police and senior politicians get on with it rather than running
about like a headless chicken.

"Politicians should get involved to analyse the situation when the facts are
known."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Times Series

                                  May 23, 2013

Edgware mosque condemns terrorist attack

BYLINE: Ruth Halkon

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 223  words


A trustee at an Edgware Mosque has said how "ashamed" his community is after
yesterday's terrorist attack in Woolwich.

Mohammad Ghulfam, a trustee at the Islamic Centre, Edgware, condemned the "two
stupid men" who hacked to death a soldier in the street in Woolwich, south-east
London.

He said: "This was a horrible act. These men were not Muslims. Islam is a
religion of peace. No religion preaches violence in this way. This was a
terrible act, we are ashamed.

"Everyone in the community is so quiet, so shocked. It is really terrible."

Mr Ghulfam said the mosque had already been contacted by Hendon MP Matthew
Offord and other local politicians and leaders, who had offered their full
support.

He added the community had not been attacked in reprisals, although he
understood "people have a right to get angry."

He said although the mosque was shaken, members of the community were not
worried about themselves and the threat of reprisals, but about the family of
the murdered man.

Mr Ghulfam said: "We will pray for the family of the murdered soldier at Friday
prayers tomorrow, that they have the strength to get through this.

"We want to know if there is anything at all we can do to make things easier for
the family. There are a lot of people ready to donate if someone opens a fund
for the family.

"We hope people take lessons from this."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Vicar who led tragic Woolwich soldier's Yorkshire wedding speaks of sorrow at
"barbaric" terror attack

LENGTH: 341  words


The vicar who conducted the wedding ceremony of Drummer Lee Rigby and his
Yorkshire bride has spoken of his sorrow at the young soldier's death.

Father Guy Jamieson, who married Drummer Rigby and Rebecca Metcalfe at St
Anne-in-the-Grove Church in Southowram, near Halifax, said he remembered the day
well, as the weddings of servicemen and women were always "particularly
poignant".

"They give their lives to each other in marriage and you can't help but be
mindful of the military part - whether he will or will not come back," he said.

"You are particularly mindful about the spouses' feelings, usually the bride,
because you hear so much about those who lose their lives in conflicts at the
moment.

"She must wonder whether he will be another victim when the time comes for him
to go away."

But the "barbaric quality" of the Woolwich attack and "the fact it was so
public" had brought it closer to home, he said.

"We hear a lot about military tragedies overseas but the fact that it was in the
street in a city makes it more horrific," he said.

"There is certainly a sense of brutality in the way in which his life came to an
end that leaves you shuddering," he said.

Drummer Rigby, then 20, was "not untypical of a groom" when the couple came to
him during their marriage preparations, Fr Jamieson recalled.

He showed a little "nervous apprehension" but was looking forward to the day, in
September 2007, and seemed "very involved" in planning it, he added.

"He had already spoken to the chaplain at Catterick and came to me well prepared
with lots of questions," he said.

"The wedding day was wonderful, as all weddings are."

It is understood the couple, who have a two-year-old son, Jack, had since split.

Fr Jamieson extended his condolences to Drummer Rigby's loved ones on behalf of
the parish.

"Everyone will no doubt feel a lump in their throat at this news," he said.

"You just feel terribly sad about it.

"I'd like to extend the sorrow of the people of St Anne's to his immediate
family, friends and military colleagues.

"This is an absolute tragedy."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                              May 24, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;

How could this have happened again?;
Massereene family's anger after horror terror attack

BYLINE: SUZANNE BREEN

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 86 words


THE family of a soldier murdered at an Ulster barracks wants to know how another
killing outside an Army base was allowed to happen.

Drummer Lee Rigby (25) was hacked to death as he left Woolwich barracks on
Wednesday in a terror attack by two Muslim extremists.

Relatives of Mark Quinsey (left), one of two soldiers murdered by the Real IRA
at Massereene in 2009, said security at all bases needed to be upgraded.

His uncle Stephen Hughes said: "They seem to have learnt nothing from
Massereene." FULL STORY, PAGES 8,9&10

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Victim: Drummer Lee Rigby (25), a father of one, was hacked to death in
Woolwich

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2013 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                              May 24, 2013 Friday

Tributes to Lee Rigby, murdered in a brutal terror attack

SECTION: BURY NEWS (BURY NEWS)

LENGTH: 1044 words


THE tearful family of murdered soldier Lee Rigby said today "our hearts have
been ripped apart".

His wife Rebecca, 30, mother of his son Jack, aged two, and stepfather Ian
Rigby, 54, fought back tears as they spoke on behalf of the 25-year-old's whole
family at a press conference at the Regimental HQ of his unit, the Royal
Regiment of Fusiliers in Bury.

The soldier's mother, Lyn Rigby, aged 46, sat red-eyed, unable to speak through
tears, clutching a teddy her son had bought his child.

Sobbing, Rebecca Rigby said: "I love Lee and always will. I am proud to be his
wife and he was due to come up this weekend so we could continue our future
together as a family.

"He was a devoted father to our son Jack and we will both miss him terribly."

Asked about the shock of the attack being on British soil, she added: "You don't
expect it to happen when he's in the UK. You think they're safe.

"His proudest moments were serving in London on the ceremonials with the drum
corps."

Drummer Rigby, from the Langley estate, in Middleton, was from 2nd Battalion,
The Royal Regiment of Fusiliers, had served in Afghanistan and was attached to
the regimental recruiting team when he was hacked to death in broad daylight on
Wednesday afternoon in Woolwich, south east London.

Two suspects were shot and arrested at the scene and are still in police
custody.

Rigby was among the 2nd Battalion Royal Regiment of Fusiliers Corp of Drums
soldiers performing at Gigg Lane, Bury, before before a League Cup game between
Bury and Rochdale on February 1, 2010.

%youtube('http://www.youtube.com/embed/2zXBwn2d6og', width="460", height="259",
iframe="true")

Drummer Rigby's stepfather Ian read out a statement on behalf of and prepared by
the whole family: "What can we say about Lee, our hero, we are so so proud of
Lee.

"When Lee was born the family adored him, he was a precious gift given to us.

"Lee had a fiery temper when he was younger. I used to sit on him to calm him
down till he got too big at 15, then he used to sit on me.

"Lee's dream growing up was always to join the army, which he succeeded in
doing. He was dedicated and loved his job.

"Lee adored and cared a lot for his family, he was very much a family man,
looking out for his wife, young son Jack, younger sisters, whom in turn they
looked up to him. He always had a banter with them but would never ever let any
harm come to them.

"He was over the moon being a dad and uncle, he adored them all."

Mr Rigby, at times swallowing hard and breathing in to contain his emotions,
continued: "Lee was a man who loved people. He had many friends growing up in
Middleton and on army duties all over the world.

"He believed life was for living and he will be sorely missed by all who knew
him.

"Courtney and Amy his younger sisters wrote this for Lee: 'Rest in peace, Lee,
we loved you so much, you didn't deserve this, you fought for your country and
did it well.

"'You will always be our hero. We are just upset you left us so early. Love you
Lee, goodnight'.

"The last text he sent to his mum read 'Goodnight mum, I hope you had a
fantastic day today because you are the most fantastic and one in a million mum
that anyone could ever wish for. Thank you for supporting me all these years,
you're not just my mum you're my best friend. So goodnight, love you loads'."

Mr Rigby added: "We would like to say goodnight, Lee, rest in peace, our fallen
soldier, we love you loads and words cannot describe how loved and sadly missed
you will be.

"We would like to thank everybody, the police and army for the amazing support
we have received, and for all the goodwill wishes we are receiving from all over
the country in memory of Lee.

"Our hearts have been ripped apart from us, everyone is struggling to cope with
this tragedy, so we would ask the press to respect our privacy to grieve our
son's parting as we try to come to terms with this."

Mr Rigby then read out a poem, a tribute to Drummer Rigby from an unknown poster
on a Facebook page.

It read: "You fought bravely and with honour died, "You leave your family so
full of pride, "Sleep well young soldier, your job is done, "Your war is over,
your battle won.

"Our family chain is broken and nothing is the same, "But as God takes us one by
one, "Our chain will link again."

%brightcove(2407096928001)

Mr Rigby was flanked by his stepson's wife, who at times covered her face with a
handkerchief, and to his right his own wife and Lee's mother, Lyn.

Lee's sister, Sara McClure, aged 24, sat holding her mother's hand and the
family were also joined by Ray Dutton, 61, another extended family member and
Susan Metcalfe, aged 60, Rebecca's mother.

Lee's other sisters Chelsea, Courtney, 11, and Amy, eight, were not present.

The family agreed to take a few questions, but did not want to be asked about
politics, racism and the incident itself - still subject to a police
investigation.

Asked how proud Drummer Rigby was to serve Queen and country, Mr Rigby replied:
"Extremely. He's always wanted to serve in the army. He's been all over, Cyprus,
Germany, Jordan."

Asked how hard it was to take that he had been killed not in a war zone but on
the streets of London, Mr Rigby said: "When in Afghanistan, you come to terms
with it, you know it's dangerous. You don't expect something like that on your
doorstep. It's very difficult."

Mr Rigby was asked how he found out about the incident and said he saw it on TV
and tried to contact his stepson immediately.

"Really, as soon as it came on the news on television, obviously we didn't know
it was Lee but your heart skips a beat when you see something like that on TV.
You know your son is in that area.

"As soon as it was on the telly we were attempting to get hold of Lee. Obviously
we couldn't and it was the middle of the night probably when we got confirmed to
us it was Lee.''

Asked what the family will miss most about him, his wife said: "Everything."

Mr Rigby added: "Everything. His love for his family, his incredible sense of
humour. He was a loving son and wonderful father.

"I just can't tell you how much...''

Drummer Rigby collected teddy bears for his son Jack and the family took one to
the press conference, held by his mother, and dressed by Drummer Rigby in
infantry uniform and with the Fusiliers' trademark feathered hackle on the cap.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Coventry Telegraph

                              May 24, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TERROR ATTACK 'FIRST OF MANY';
Professor says murder reflects changing nature of terrorism

BYLINE: Martin Bagot

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 665 words


A COVENTRY academic has said the brutal terrorist murder in Woolwich this week
could be the first of many.

Oz Hassan, professor in international security at Warwick University, says the
deadly daytime attack on a member of the armed forces fits the changing nature
of terrorism.

The gruesome murder saw a soldier in a Help for Heroes T-shirt hacked to death
in a London street.

The soldier was father-ofone Lee Rigby from Crumpsall, Manchester. He was a
drummer from 2nd Battalion, The Royal Regiment of Fusiliers.

Passers-by filmed the two suspects before they were shot by police marksmen.

Both suspects were still in hospital yesterday under armed guard.

Prof Hassan says we can now expect terrorist attacks by low-level individuals
who have been radicalised over the internet - as in the case of the Boston
bombing suspects.

"The first thing to say is that this isn't actually surprising," he said.

"The way in which the 'war on terror' has been conducted has been to annihilate
the central control command of Al Qaeda and Islamist groups.

"The heads of these organisations have been broken off so what you are getting
is a splinter effect where individuals take it upon themselves to act as
individual cells.

"This means their ability to conduct attacks like 9/11 is no longer possible, or
becomes more difficult.

"This really demonstrates the weakness of terrorist organisa-tions.

NO SURPRISE: Professor Oz "Picking on one guy in the street is not too different
from things that happen somewhere in the UK every day. It's just that they had
political motives."

Across London there were 1,200 extra police officers on duty yesterday. There
were two separate attacks on mosques on Wednesday evening, in Gillingham and in
Essex.

Officers forced their way into a flat believed to belong to one of the terrorist
attackers on a Greenwich housing estate.

An address in Saxilby, Lincolnshire, was also searched in connection with the
attack.

Prof Hassan insists the way to tackle this new form of terrorism is to combat
its ideology.

He says western governments should employ long-term strategies to work with
moderate Islamic groups.

"It's not entirely clear yet who these individuals are or whether they were on
the radar of the security services.

"It is individuals being radicalised on the internet.

"What you see here - attacking people in the street with a meat cleaver and
small knives - is harder to prevent.

"We've seen it in Mumbai, we've seen it with homemade bombs in Boston and now
we've seen it in the UK.

"They are unrelated. "But this new phase of terrorism we face is very much doing
what they can with what they have."

Gruesome street death condemned MUSLIM groups have united in condemning the
attack in Woolwich as un-Islamic.

The Muslim Council of Britain said the killers' use of "Islamic slogans"
indicated they were motivated by their faith. A statement from the council said:
"This is a truly barbaric act that has no basis in Islam and we condemn this
unreservedly. Our thoughts are with the victim and his family.

"We understand the victim is a serving member of the Armed Forces. Muslims have
long served in this country's Armed Forces, proudly and with honour.

"This attack on a member of the Armed Forces is dishonourable, and no cause
justifies this murder."

MOD chiefs initially issued a directive to troops not to wear their uniforms
outside their bases, but a meeting of the government's Cobra emergencies
committee yesterday relaxed some of the temporary security measures.

An MOD spokesman said: "The best way we can defeat terrorism is to carry on as
normal, and that includes our personnel wearing their uniform."

Faith and communities minister Baroness Warsi, who attended the Cobra meeting,
said: "What I've been incredibly impressed with, coming out of this tragedy, is
the way in which the British Muslim communities have so unreservedly and
unitedly condemned these barbaric acts. What we are seeing is faith communities
coming together and showing a unified condemnation of this."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NO SURPRISE: Professor Oz Hassan
ATTENTION SEEKER a man holding weapons by the scene in John Wilson Street,
Woolwich where the soldier was found murdered

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CVT


                   Copyright 2013 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 24, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attacks will only make us stronger, says Cameron;
PRIME MINISTER'S RESPONSE

BYLINE: Rowena Mason

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 542 words


BRITAIN will "never give in to terrorism" and people should stand up to violent
extremists by carrying on with their normal lives, David Cameron has said.

After a meeting of the Government's emergency committee, the Prime Minister said
the country had been "sickened" by the brutal murder of the fusilier, later
named as Drummer Lee Rigby, on the streets of London.

However, he said soldiers should continue to wear their uniforms, as the best
way of defeating terrorists was to make sure they did not succeed in disrupting
the country.

"The people who did this were trying to divide us," he said. "They should know
something like this will only bring us together and make us stronger.

"One of the best ways of defeating terrorism is to go about our normal lives."
Mr Cameron made clear that there was no justification in Islam for the murder,
and branded the attacks a "betrayal" of that religion. He said the killing was
"solely and purely" the responsibility of the murderers, and cautioned against
"knee-jerk responses".

"This country will be absolutely resolute in its stand against violent extremism
and terror," he said. "We will never give in to terror or terrorism in any of
its forms."

Leaders from all political parties and from across the world yesterday condemned
the brutality of the Woolwich attack, in which two men tried to behead the
soldier with knives and meat cleavers before asking passers-by to take photos.
In video footage, one of the suspects with his hands covered in blood told a
witness that the "only reason we have killed this man today is because Muslims
are dying by British soldiers every day".

Mr Cameron said the images were "deeply shocking". "Our thoughts are with the
victim and with his family," he said. "They are grieving for their loved one,
and we have lost a brave soldier."

Nick Clegg added his condemnation. "I think like everybody else I was just
actually sickened by the spectacle of these two individuals, horrified about
what happened on the streets of London, and a huge sense of sorrow for the
family and friends of the victim."

Ed Miliband, the Labour leader, cut short a visit to Germany and spoke to the
Prime Minister on his return to London.

"This was an appalling and horrific murder, and all of my condolences are with
the families and friends of the victim, and indeed with our troops, because they
serve incredibly bravely all around the world and they've seen one of their own
murdered in an act of complete cowardice," he said.

"There are people who try to divide us with acts like this. They've tried it
before in London and they've failed, and they will always fail."

Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, said the attack was "a sickening, barbaric,
completely unforgivable crime".

"It is completely wrong to blame this killing on the religion of Islam, but it
is also equally wrong to try to draw any link between this murder and British
foreign policy or the actions of British forces who are risking their lives
abroad for the sake of freedom," he said.

Barack Obama also gave his support to Britain "in the strongest terms" and said
there could be "absolutely no justification for such acts". He said America
stood resolute with the UK against violent extremism and terror.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron and Boris Johnson told an audience in Woolwich that Islam
could not be blamed for the 'sickening' murder
SANG TAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Dinnington Guardian

                              May 24, 2013 Friday

WOOLWICH TERROR ATTACK: Notts Police reassures communities

BYLINE: Hayley Gallimore

LENGTH: 347  words


Notts Police has issued a statement reassuring communities in the wake of
Wednesday's terror attack on soldier Lee Rigby in Woolwich.

The force said there had been no incidents reported in the county as a result of
the killing.

"The attack in Woolwich is a prime example of an incident which has
understandably affected and unnerved people across the country, if not the
world," said a spokesman.

"It would be remiss of us not to respond to potential concerns in our
communities."

"We monitor current events both nationally and internationally in a bid to be
informed, prepared and able to respond, where necessary, to best protect the
residents of Nottinghamshire."

"We will not tolerate any actions that may cause harassment or fear in our
communities or compromise the safety of the public."

The attack happened in Woolwich on Wednesday 22nd May in broad daylight at
2.20pm as horrified witnesses, including children, looked on.

The victim was yesterday identified as Drummer Lee Rigby of the 2nd Battalion
the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers.

Eyewitnesses say he was wearing a Help For Heroes t-shirt and was hacked to
death by two men shouting Allahu Akbar - God is Great.

The two men, have been named locally as 28-year-old Michael Adebolajo, from
Romford in east London, and 22-year-old Michael Adebowale, of Greenwich in
south-east London.

They remain under arrest in hospital after being shot and wounded by police.

Adebolajo's former address in Hotchkin Avenue, Saxilby, near Gainsborough, was
searched on Thursday in connection with the attack.

Notts Police issued the following advice for communities.

If you feel you have been a victim of any form of discrimination or harassment,
call Stop Hate UK on 0800 138 1625.

Report any suspicious activity to Notts Police immediately on 101 or call
Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

In an emergency or if a crime is taking place call 999.

o Get the Worksop Guardian for just 71p a week when you subscribe - a saving of
25%. Call 0844 9916464 or click on this link
{http://www.subscriptionline.co.uk/WGU|  www.subscriptionline.co.uk/WGU}

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NDIG


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Dinnington Guardian

                              May 24, 2013 Friday

WOOLWICH TERROR ATTACK: Edward Leigh MP gives his reaction

BYLINE: Claire O'neill

LENGTH: 226  words


Gainsborough MP Edward Leigh has said he has every confidence' in Lincolnshire
Police as they assist with the suspected terror attack investigation.

He was speaking as the force was supporting officers from the Metropolitan
Police during a search on a house in Saxilby yesterday (Wednesday).

It is believed that one of the men arrested in connection with the killing of a
soldier in Woolwich on Tuesday used to live at a house on Hotchkin Avenue with
his family.

Mr Leigh said: "Every effort must be made to ensure terrorists feel the full
weight of British justice."

"I have every confidence in Lincolnshire Police and their work in coordination
with the Metropolitan Police."

The attack happened in Woolwich at 2.20pm on Tuesday as horrified witnesses,
including children, looked on.

Eyewitnesses say the victim was hacked to death by two men, named locally as
22-year-old Michael Adebowale and 28-year-old Michael Adebolajo shouting Allahu
Akbar - God is Great.

After the attack they waited for police, asking people to film and take photos
of them.

One man, thought to be Adebolajo, was filmed holding a meat cleaver and knife,
his hands covered in blood. He told onlookers he carried out the attack because
British soldiers are killing Muslims every day.

They were shot as police tried to arrest them, are now under armed guard at
separate hospitals in London.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NDIG


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Eastern Daily Press

                              May 24, 2013 Friday

Norwich-based muslim's condemn terror attack

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 385 words


Muslims in Norfolk have condemned the brutal killing of a serving soldier in a
suspected terror attack during which he was beheaded in broad daylight in front
of horrified onlookers by suspected Islamic terrorists.



Eyewitnesses said the victim, Drummer Lee Rigby, was hacked to death close to
the Royal Artillery Barracks in Woolwich, south east London on Wednesday by two
men shouting Allahu Akbar (God is Great).

The incident has prompted a statement from the Muslim Community of Norwich which
has condemned the killing.

A statement issued by the Ihsan Mosque, based at Chapelfield East, on behalf of
the city's Muslim  community, said: "The Muslim community of Norwich is shocked,
saddened and offended at the barbaric killing of an innocent man in Woolwich on
Wednesday afternoon; our sincerest sympathies and  condolences go out to the
family  of the deceased for their dreadful loss.

"We are a community of predominantly British Muslims, many of whom have come to
Islam by choice, and as such we absolutely repudiate any claim these criminal
individuals have made to justify the heinous act they have committed by
mentioning the name of God or the name of our chosen religion.

"Actions of this kind can only be motivated by depravity and could never result
from any true understanding of Islam."

Meanwhile police in Norfolk and Suffolk have confirmed officers were carrying
out visits to "key locations" in the counties.

A spokesman said: "Police officers are currently conducting reassurance visits
to key locations, including military sites, across both counties, following
Wednesday's incident in Woolwich.

"While there is currently no indication of any specific threat relating to
Norfolk or Suffolk, we would ask local people to remain vigilant and report any
suspicious activity immediately to the police on 999."

An MoD spokesman said: "In light of Wednesday's events and the  emerging
situation, the military Chain of Command introduced a package of immediate
reactive  security yesterday following morning a decision was taken to relax
some of these temporary measures, including advice to members of the  Armed
Forces in London not to wear uniform outside of defence establishments.

"The best way we can defeat terrorism is to carry on as normal and that includes
our personnel wearing their uniform."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EDP


                    Copyright 2013 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Eastwood Advertiser

                              May 24, 2013 Friday

Crime commissioner and local MP speak out about terrorist attack

LENGTH: 213  words


The Nottinghamshire Crime Commissioner and Eastwood MP have spoken out about a
soldier killed in a terrorist attack in London yesterday.

The soldier killed in a terrorist attack on Wednesday has been named as Drummer
Lee Rigby.

His parents who live in Manchester said he would do anything for anybody and he
wanted to be a soldier all his life.

Nottinghamshire Crime commissioner Paddy Tipping described the attack as tragic'
and Eastwood MP Gloria De Piero said it was an appalling act of terrorism'.

Lee, 25, was attacked and killed near to army barracks in a street in Woolwich.

Two men were seen in the street with bloodied meat cleavers and a machete.

Mr Tipping said he was amazed at how local people approached the offenders.

"I was struck at how brazen the whole thing was, and what struck me was how
local people took the offenders on.

"It was a tragic event."

Gloria De Piero said "Everyone is shocked by what has happened. It's a truly
appalling act of terrorism.

"All of my thoughts are with the family and friends of the victim. Those who are
responsible must now face the full force of British justice. Politicians of all
Parties must work together to ensure that happens."

The two mem were shot and wounded by police and are now recovering in hospital
under armed guard.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEAA


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              May 24, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

fanatics 'were hunting soldiers to kill';
woolwich attack NEIGHBOUR SAYS TERROR PAIR FOLLOWED HIM WEEKS BEFORE DRUMMER WAS
HACKED TO DEATH IN STREET ; 'Killers' plotted attack in London ; flat where one
lived with mother

BYLINE: John Dunne, Benedict Moore-Bridger ; Justin Davenport

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4,5

LENGTH: 903 words


THE Woolwich suspects were "hunting soldiers" in the weeks leading up to the
slaughter of Army drummer Lee Rigby, it was claimed today.

Neighbour Paul Ramsamy, 46, told today how the pair confronted him after
apparently mistaking him for a squaddie in combat trousers and boots. The father
of two claimed Michael Adebowale, 22, and Michael Adebolajo, 28, had pursued him
in a Greenwich street as he walked home.

He said: "They followed me for about 50 metres and approached me together. They
looked very serious, like they meant business. They looked at my camouflage
trousers and boots. I then Continued on Page 4

Continued from Page 1 thought they just wanted me to buzz them into the flat
block but that was obviously not the case.

"When I saw what happened in Woolwich I recognised them and realised how lucky I
have been. They must have been hunting for soldiers to attack when they followed
me.

"I realise now what a lucky escape I had. They were obviously looking for a
soldier to attack in the time before they struck. They were whispering to each
other when they walked away. It was very scary.

"They obviously saw I was not a soldier and let me go. They could have followed
me into the lift and attacked me. I feel lucky to be alive."

The alleged confrontation took place two months ago and is said to show that the
suspects may have been plotting an attack for some time. The develop-ment
emerged as the victim's family today spoke of their pride in him.

Drummer Rigby, who served in Afghanistan, died in the street after he was hacked
to death on Wednesday afternoon in Woolwich. Adebowale, an ex-London schoolboy,
and Adebolajo were shot as they rushed armed police.

The pair are thought to have plotted the attack in Adebowale's flat in
Greenwich, which was raided by up to 20 heavily armed officers yesterday.

Neighbours said both were regularly seen at the address where Adebowale was
living with his mother Juliet. He and Adebolajo - who is also said to have been
a drug dealer and robber - attended Greenwich University, though it is not known
how they met.

Both suspects have been arrested for murder and today remain under armed guard
at separate London hospitals.

Details of their backgrounds emerged as tributes continued to flood in for the
soldier murdered 200 yards from Woolwich barracks.

Drummer Rigby, 25, a married father from Manchester with a two-year-old son
called Jack, was from 2nd Battalion The Royal Regiment of Fusiliers, and was
attached to the Regimental Recruiting Team in London.

Dramatic new footage also emerged of the moment the two suspects were shot by
firearms officers.

The 10-second film shows Adebolajo sprinting at officers head-on with a knife as
Adebowale walks forward and aims a gun at them. Adebolajo gets within 2ft of the
woman police constable driving the armed response BMW X5 before he is shot and
sent sprawling to the ground. The officers have just a split second to take the
decision to open fire through windows or a halfopened door of the police car. As
Adebowale aims his handgun at the officers he, too, is shot by marksmen.

A man and a woman, both 29, were arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to murder
during a series of raids on six addresses in London, Essex and Lincolnshire
yesterday.

They came as MI5 faced continued questions over whether they had let the two men
slip through the net.

Adebolajo was once intercepted by police as he tried to travel to Somalia to
fight alongside radical Islamists of al-Shabaab and was also said to have served
a jail sentence for violence.

Both men were said to be known to the security services but were not classified
as an active threat. One report suggested Adebolajo had complained about being
harassed by MI5 officials.

Cabinet minister Eric Pickles said the police and intelligence services would be
"thoroughly investigated" for their actions. Home affairs committee chairman
Keith Vaz said the first priority was to probe "how and why" the alleged
terrorists carried out the atrocity.

But he said the committee will want to examine the Woolwich case as part of
their next inquiry, which will be on international terrorism. Today neighbours
at Adebowale's fourth-floor flat described him as "always courteous" and "a nice
normal guy" who loved football and was a passionate Manchester United fan.

He is understood to have attended Kidbrooke School in Greenwich, while Adebolajo
was a former pupil at Marshalls Park School in Romford. Neighbours told how the
pair would often be seen at Adebowale's flat, where forensic teams were today
searching for clues.

John Ackworth, 42, said of Adebowale: "Michael seemed a lovely guy. I'd see him
in the lift and we'd joke about football. I support Charlton and he'd make fun
of me. He was a Man U fan.

"All of us neighbours here are very shocked. His mother is a lovely woman and we
feel so sorry for her. The other guy was often around here too. He was very
quiet and when I said hello he hardly acknowledged me."

Another friend said Adebowale also converted to Islam in his late teens like his
alleged accomplice Adebolajo.

Hundreds of floral tributes have been left at the murder scene. Drummer Rigby's
family issued a statement saying: "Lee was lovely. He'd do anything for anybody
and took a 'big brother' role with everyone."

Continued from Page 1 thought [...]

'They must have been hunting for soldiers to attack when they followed me. I
feel lucky to be alive' Neighbour Paul Ramsamy

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dramatic: murder suspect Michael Adebowale at the scene in Woolwich
"Lucky escape": neighbour Paul Ramsamy claims he was approached by the pair who,
he says, mistakenly believed him to be a soldier

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 24, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

A TRUE WARRIOR;
MI5 HAD BEEN TRACKING HIS KILLERS FOR 8 YEARS WOOLWICH TERROR ATTACK SOLDIER
WHOSE MURDER SHOCKED THE WORLD

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 69 words


PROUD and resolute in his ceremonial uniform, this is the British soldier
murdered by two Islamist fanatics in an outrage that shocked the world.

; Drummer Lee Rigby, 25, of 2nd Battalion The Royal Regiment of Fusiliers - an
Afghan veteran and father of a two-year-old son - was described last night by
comrades as "a true warrior". It emerged that MI5 had been tracking his killers
for eight years.

; SEE PAGES 4&5, 6&7

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                              May 24, 2013 Friday

Help for Heroes Paris-London bike ride amid renewed interest in charity after
terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 133 words


Help for Heroes Big Battlefield Bike Ride begins, as riders incl wounded
personnel depart Paris for a 350-mile route to London, where they are expected
to finish on 2 Jun where the charity's Hero Ride begins.
 Help for Heroes has seen a huge rise in donations since Wednesday's terror
attack on a British soldier in Woolwich, south-east London. 25-year-old Lee
Rigby - who was believed to have been wearing a Help for Heroes t-shirt - died,
reportedly at the hands of two men using a meat cleaver and gun while shouting
Islamist slogans. The two arrested - incl Islamist protester Michael Adebolajo -
made no attempt to escape and have been under surveillance in hospital after
interventions by armed police

Event Start Date: 2013-05-26

Event End Date: 2013-06-02

Event URL: http://www.helpforheroes.org.uk/

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2013 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Hastings & St. Leonards Observer

                              May 24, 2013 Friday

Crowd gathers at Hastings Mosque to condemn London terror attack

LENGTH: 171  words


OVER one hundred people gathered outside Hastings Mosque this afternoon (Friday)
to show unity in denouncing the Woolwich terror attack.

Drummer Lee Rigby, a 25-year-old soldier from the Royal Fusiliers was murdered
in the street, in London, in broad daylight on Wednesday (May 22) by two
Islamist terrorists.

Imam Magdi Osman from Hastings Mosque said: "We, the Muslims of Hastings and
surrounding areas, under the banner of East Sussex Islamic Association, are very
much appalled.

"We express our denunciation in strongest possible terms of this inhumane and
barbaric killing in the streets of Woolwich, London.

"The perpetrators of this cowardly act do not represent but their own criminal
minds and inhumane hearts which are full of hatred.

"This is why we urge the wider British society not to put any burden of guilt on
the Muslim communities which live peacefully amongst them side by side.

"Our thoughts, prayers and sympathies are with the family of the deceased.

"We, the British will remain together, resolute and strong."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPHO


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 24, 2013 Friday 11:12 PM GMT

BNP and EDL accused of attempt to fuel racial hatred after Woolwich terror
attack;
Islamophobic hate crimes running at 10 times usual rate after murder of soldier

BYLINE: Oliver Wright, Nigel Morris

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 838 words


Muslim leaders have accused far-right extremists of trying to capitalise on the
"sick and barbaric" murder of Lee Rigby to fuel racial hatred.

Islamophobic hate crimes are running at more than 10 times their usual rate,
with more than 140 reported to a government-backed hotline in the 48 hours since
the Woolwich killing.

They include nine attacks on mosques, assaults, racial abuse and anti-Muslim
graffiti. An improvised petrol bomb was thrown at a mosque in Milton Keynes
during Friday prayers, while attacks have also been reported in Gillingham,
Braintree, Bolton and Cambridge.

The British National Party leader, Nick Griffin, who visited Woolwich yesterday,
provoked widespread disgust for tweeting that the alleged killers should be
wrapped in "pig skin" and shot again. The English Defence League, which has said
the killing shows Britain is "at war" with Islamic extremism, will stage a march
today in Newcastle, where it will protest over plans to open an Islamic school.
It is also planning a demonstration in  central London on Monday. Amid heavy
security, Mr Griffin visited the site of the killing following a series of
provocative tweets in which he claimed the attack was the result of "mass
immigration".

The BNP leader, whose party's electoral support has collapsed in the past three
years, has also called for a show of strength by activists in Woolwich next
Saturday under the banner "United against Muslim terror".

In an unprecedented open letter, the heads of nearly 100 mosques said they
shared the "absolute horror" felt by the rest of British society at the crime
committed "in the name of our religion".

But they warned that across Britain "hate-fuelled individuals" had already
attempted to attack mosques and individuals in the wake of Wednesday's killing.
They urged the public "not to be taken in" by the "mindless rantings" of
extremists on both sides who, they said, should be "isolated and subject to the
full force of the law".

The Muslim leaders said they wanted to make clear that the murder of Drummer
Rigby was a "heinous atrocity worthy of nothing but contempt". But they warned
they had already seen extremists "seeking to capitalise upon Wednesday's
terrible act".

"The hate-fuelled individuals  behind such attacks wish to polarise and tear
apart our great country for their own sick ends," they wrote. "They should be
isolated and subject to the full force of the law."

A spokesman for the hate crime hotline Measuring Anti-Muslim Attacks said
reported incidents were running at "a level we simply haven't seen before". He
said: "Muslims at this moment are feeling a real and pervasive sense of fear."
Calls for action on the capital's streets by the EDL and the BNP will leave the
Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, with the dilemma of
whether to apply to the Home Secretary, Theresa May, to have them banned. A
planned EDL march through Tower Hamlets in London, home to one of the country's
largest Muslim communities, was blocked by Ms May two years ago.

Far-right websites are linking the murder to population growth among ethnic
minorities, while a number of social networking sites also carried messages
calling for Muslim sites to be attacked. The "True British Patriots" Facebook
page carried calls for mosques to be burned down. The official website of the
National Front party berates "Muslim scum".

Sunder Katwala, director of the British Future think-tank, said: "The BNP and
EDL, both in a state of near collapse, have little chance of using Woolwich to
recover politically but their activities do often stir up local violence. Yet
again the absurdly extreme Islamist clown Anjem Choudary shows he is a more
effective recruiter for the far right than Nick Griffin has ever been. How much
these two extremes need each other."

In a speech in London, alongside representatives of the Army and the Muslim
community, the Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg expressed fears that the
Woolwich atrocity could lead to long-lasting damage to community relations.
"Fear is an extraordinarily powerful emotion and when it takes root," he said,
"it has a very, very corrosive effect on every part of our lives. We have a
choice to either allow that powerful corrosive feeling of fear to seep into
every second and minute and hour of our lives or we can make a choice that we're
not going to change our behaviour."

The Archbishop of Canterbury called for community unity. Speaking after a
meeting of faith leaders in Leicester, the Most Rev Justin Welby said: "I want
to recognise the response of churches, mosques and other faith and civil society
groups as well as those of brave individuals who have done so much to bring our
communities together at this time.

* A 22-year-old man will appear in court today after being arrested on suspicion
of making malicious comments on Facebook following the murder of Lee Rigby.
Benjamin Flatters, of Lincoln, was arrested after complaints made to
Lincolnshire Police that alleged the comments were of a racist or anti-religious
nature.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 24, 2013 Friday 7:44 PM GMT

BNP and EDL accused of attempt to fuel racial hatred after Woolwich terror
attack;
Islamophobic hate crimes running at 10 times usual rate after murder of soldier

BYLINE: Oliver Wright, Nigel Morris

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 841 words


Far right extremists have been accused by Muslim leaders of attempting to
capitalise on the "sick and barbaric" murder of Lee Rigby to fuel racial hatred
in Britain.

Islamophobic hate crimes are running at more than ten times their usual rate,
with more than 140 reported to a Government-backed hotline in the 48 hours since
the Woolwich killing. They include nine attacks on mosques, assaults, racial
abuse and anti-Muslim graffiti.

The English Defence League, which has said the attack shows Britain is "at war"
with Islamic extremism, will stage a march today in Newcastle, where it will
protest over moves to open an Islamic school. It is also planning a
demonstration in central London on Bank Holiday Monday following the Woolwich
murder.

Amid heavy security the British National Party leader, Nick Griffin, visited the
site of the killing following a series of provocative tweets in which he claimed
the attack was the result of "mass immigration".

Mr Griffin, whose party's electoral support has collapsed in the last three
years, has also called for a show of strength by activists in Woolwich next
Saturday under the banner "United Against Muslim terror".

In an unprecedented open letter, the heads of nearly 100 mosques said they
shared the "absolute horror" felt by the rest of British society at the crime
committed "in the name of our religion".

But they warned that across Britain "hate-fuelled individuals" had already
attempted to attack mosques and individuals in the wake of Wednesday's attack.

They urged the public "not to be taken in" by the "mindless rantings of
extremists on both sides who, they said, should be "isolated and subject to the
full force of the law".

The Muslim leaders said they wanted to make clear that the murder of Drummer
Rigby was "heinous atrocity worthy of nothing but contempt".

But they warned that they had already seen extremists "seeking to capitalise
upon Wednesday's terrible act".

"The hate-fuelled individuals behind such attacks wish to polarise and tear
apart our great country for their own sick ends," they wrote. "They should be
isolated and subject to the full force of the law."

A spokesman for the hate crime hotline, Measuring Anti-Muslims Attacks, said
reported incidents were running at "a level we simply haven't seen before". He
said: "Muslims at this moment are feeling a real and pervasive sense of fear."

Calls for action on the capital's streets by the EDL and the BNP will leave the
Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, with the dilemma of
whether to apply to the Home Secretary, Theresa May, to have them banned. A
planned EDL march through Tower Hamlets, home to one of the country's largest
Muslim communities, was blocked by Ms May two years ago.

An improvised petrol bomb was thrown at a mosque in Milton Keynes during Friday
prayers, while attacks have also been reported in Gillingham, Braintree, Bolton
and Cambridge.

Far-right websites are linking the murder to the growth of ethnic minority
population, while a number of social networking sites also carried messages
calling for Muslim sites to be attacked.

The "True British Patriots" Facebook page carried calls for mosques in Watford
in Hertfordshire and Morden, south London, to be burned down.

The official website of the National Front party berates "Muslim scum" and calls
for "non-whites" to be removed from the country.

Sunder Katwala, director of the British Future think tank, said: "The BNP and
EDL, both in a state of near collapse, have little chance of using Woolwich to
recover politically but their activities do often stir up local violence.

"Yet again the absurdly extreme Islamist Anjem Choudary shows he is a more
effective recruiter for the far right than Nick Griffin has ever been. How much
these two extremes need each other."

In a speech in London, alongside representatives of the army and the Muslim
community, the Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg expressed fears that the
Woolwich atrocity could lead to long-lasting damage to community relations.

"Fear is an extraordinarily powerful emotion and when it takes root," he said.
"It has a very, very corrosive effect on every part of our lives."

"We have a choice to either allow that powerful corrosive feeling of fear to
seep into every second and minute and hour of our lives or we can make a choice
that we're not going to change our behaviour."

The Lib Dem leader said the religion of Islam was "perverted" by the two men who
were shot by police in the wake of the murder.

The Archbishop of Canterbury called for community unity and praised the response
of British faith groups to the Woolwich atrocity.

Speaking after a meeting of faith leaders in Leicester, the Rev Justin Welby
said: "I want to recognise the response of churches, mosques and other faith and
civil society groups as well as those of brave individuals who have done so much
to bring our communities together at this time.

"The strong response of the Muslim Council of Britain and many other
organisations has rightly emphasised that these acts have no place in Islam."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 24, 2013 Friday 4:26 PM GMT

Woolwich terror attack: Lee Rigby's step-father recalls how he first learnt of
incident from television;
Drummer Rigby was hacked to death in broad daylight on Wednesday afternoon in
Woolwich, south-east London

BYLINE: Rob Williams

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1010 words


The father of Lee Rigby, the soldier killed in a knife and machete attack in
Woolwich, has today paid an emotional tribute to him.

Mr Rigby's wife, Rebecca, and stepfather Ian Rigby spoke of their pride for him
as they fought back tears and spoke on behalf of the 25-year-old's whole family,
at a press conference at the Regimental HQ of his unit, the Royal Regiment of
Fusiliers at Bury in Greater Manchester.

Mr Rigby said he first learnt about the incident from television, and recalled
calling his step-son immediately.

"Really as soon as it came on the news on television, obviously we didn't know
it was Lee but your heart skips a beat when you see something like that on TV,
you know your son is in that area," he said.

"As soon as it was on the telly we were attempting to get hold of Lee, obviously
we couldn't and it was the middle of the night probably when we got confirmed to
us it was Lee."

Drummer Rigby, who was hacked to death in broad daylight on Wednesday afternoon
in Woolwich, south-east London, grew up in Langley, in Middleton, Greater
Manchester. He was a member of the 2nd Battalion, The Royal Regiment of
Fusiliers, had served in Afghanistan, and was attached to the Regimental
Recruiting Team.

Two suspects were shot by police at the scene and remain under armed guard in
hospital.

Two women arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to murder soldier Lee Rigby have
been released without charge, Scotland Yard said.

Rebecca Rigby, mother of their two-year-old son Jack, paid tribute to Mr Rigby
saying: "I love Lee and always will. I am proud to be his wife and he was due to
come up this weekend so we could continue our future together as a family."

Mrs Rigby, sobbing back tears, added: "He was a devoted father to our son Jack
and we will both miss him terribly."

Asked about the shock of the attack being on British soil, she added: "You don't
expect it to happen when he's in the UK. You think they're safe.

"His proudest moments were serving in London on the ceremonials with the drum
corps."

Lee's stepfather Ian read out a statement on behalf of and prepared by the whole
family: "What can we say about Lee, our hero, we are so so proud of Lee.

"When Lee was born the family adored him, he was a precious gift given to us.

"Lee had a fiery temper when he was younger, I used to sit on him to calm him
down till he got too big at 15, then he used to sit on me.

"Lee's dream growing up was always to join the army which he succeeded in doing,
he was dedicated and loved his job."

"Lee adored and cared a lot for his family, he was very much a family man,
looking out for his wife, young son Jack, younger sisters, whom in turn they
looked up to him, he always had a banter with them but would never ever let any
harm come to them.

"He was over the moon being a dad and uncle, he adored them all."

Mr Rigby, 54, at times swallowing hard and breathing in to contain his emotions,
continued: "Lee was a man who loved people.

He had many friends growing up in Middleton and on army duties all over the
world.

"He believed life was for living and he will be sorely missed by all who knew
him.

"Courtney and Amy his younger sisters wrote this for Lee: 'Rest in Peace Lee, we
loved you so much, you didn't deserve this, you fought for your country and did
it well.

"You will always be our hero we are just upset you left us so early. Love you
Lee, goodnight.'"

The last text he sent to his mum read, 'Goodnight mum, I hope you had a
fantastic day today because you are the most fantastic and one in a million mum
that anyone could ever wish for. Thank you for supporting me all these years,
you're not just my mum you're my best friend. So goodnight, love you loads."

Mr Rigby continued: "We would like to say goodnight Lee, rest in peace our
fallen soldier, we love you loads and words cannot describe how loved and sadly
missed you will be.

"We would like to thank everybody, the police and army for the amazing support
we have received and for all the goodwill wishes we are receiving from all over
the country in memory of Lee.

"Our hearts have been ripped apart from us, everyone is struggling to cope with
this tragedy, so we would ask the press to respect our privacy to grieve our
son's parting as we try to come to terms with this."

Mr Rigby then read out a poem, a tribute to Lee from an unknown poster on a
Facebook page.

It read: "You fought bravely and with honour died,

"You leave your family so full of pride,

"Sleep well young soldier, your job is done,

"Your war is over, your battle won.

"Our family chain is broken and nothing is the same,

"But as God takes us one by one,

"Our chain will link again."

Mr Rigby was flanked by his step-son's wife, who at times covered her face with
a handkerchief and to his right his own wife and Lee's mother, Lyn Rigby.

Lee's sister, Sara McClure, 24, sat holding her mother's hand and the family
were also joined by Ray Dutton, another extended family member and Susan
Metcalfe, Rebecca's mother.

Lee's other sisters Chelsea, Courtney, 11, and Amy, eight, were not present.

The family agreed to take a few questions, but did not want to be asked about
politics, racism and the incident itself - still subject to an ongoing police
investigation.

Asked how proud Lee was to serve Queen and country, Mr Rigby replied:
"Extremely. He's always wanted to serve in the Army. He's been all over, Cyprus,
Germany, Jordan."

Asked how hard it was to take that Lee had been killed not in a war zone but on
the streets of London, Mr Rigby said: "When in Afghanistan, you come to terms
with it, you know it's dangerous, you don't expect something like that on your
doorstep. It's very difficult."

Asked what the family will miss most about Lee, his wife said: "Everything."

Mr Rigby added: "Everything. His love for his family, his incredible sense of
humour. He was a loving son and wonderful father.

"I just can't tell you how much..."

Drummer Rigby collected teddy bears for his son Jack and the family took one to
the press conference, dressed by Lee in the infantry uniform and with the
Fusiliers' trademark feathered 'hackle' on the cap.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Louth Leader

                              May 24, 2013 Friday

Lincolnshire residents warned against inciting racial hatred in wake of Woolwich
terrorist attack

LENGTH: 297  words


Lincolnshire residents have been urged to remain calm and refrain from making
incendiary comments online in the wake of Wednesday's alleged Islamic terrorist
murder of a British soldier in Woolwich.

Feelings in the county were running high yesterday following reports that a
Saxilby property believed to have been the former home of one of the alleged
murderers, had been searched in connection with the brutal attack.

Lincolnshire Police, which is supporting the Met's murder investigation, has
received a number of reports' about social media posts that could potentially
incite racial hatred and violence'.

"We would urge people to consider the very real impact of their online comments
in relation to this matter," said a spokesperson.

"We have received a number of reports from local members of the public about
tweets and Facebook comments that could potentially incite racial hatred and
violence.

"These are currently being investigated. If such communications are reported to
us and they do breach the law, those messages may be monitored; captured and
robust police action will be considered."

The 25-year-old soldier Drummer Lee Rigby was run down by a vehicle and then
hacked to death as he returned to the Royal Artillery Barracks in Woolwich on
Wednesday afternoon.

His death led to an outpouring of grief from family and fellow soldiers but also
inflamed racial and religious tension, leading to attacks on Mosques and
demonstrations from the Far Right English Defence League.

"Although we are unable to comment on any aspect of ongoing investigations, we
realise the events of the last couple of days will have had a significant impact
on people living in Lincolnshire," the spokesperson added.

"We would urge people to be calm and measure in their response to recent
events."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MLOP


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 24, 2013 Friday 11:58 PM GMT

£600,000 raised in just three days for Help for Heroes in the aftermath of
Woolwich terror attack on soldier

BYLINE: SAM GREENHILL and KEITH GLADDIS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 340 words


Well-wishers, including many Daily Mail readers, have donated £600,000 to Help
For Heroes since the terrorist killing of Drummer Lee Rigby on Wednesday.

The charity said it was overwhelmed by the public's desire to boost funding for
wounded troops in the wake of the tragedy.

In only 24 hours hundreds have vowed to take part in fundraising events, with
115 challenges, such as cycle rides and marathons, registered nationwide.

The surge in support was so unexpected that the charity's website is continuing
to crash, such is the demand to show solidarity with troops.

Meanwhile, a team of volunteers received more than a call every minute from
those pledging donations at one point yesterday.

The wave of support came in after it emerged Drummer Rigby, 25, was wearing a
Help For Heroes hooded sweatshirt when he was murdered.

The charity said it had been 'inundated' with requests from the public to buy
merchandise, such as Drummer Rigby's top, and leave messages of support.

A Help For Heroes statement said: 'Since the awful news emerged that Drummer Lee
Rigby was killed in Woolwich, the nation has rallied behind our Armed Forces in
an extraordinary and wonderful display of support.

'Help For Heroes has been the unexpected focus of this spontaneous and
instinctive desire to counter evil with good. The charity was founded as a
response to a simple desire to help those who serve our country and are hurt
while doing so.

'With these funds we have helped thousands and built a national network of
support. We are now fundraising and need millions more to ensure that support
will endure for years to come.

'Every penny that is donated by the public in response to Lee's death will help
support his brothers and sisters in arms for years to come.'

The charity was set up in 2007 by Bryn Parry and his wife Emma to provide better
care and services for wounded British servicemen and women.

In only six years it has raised £160million for state-of-the-art facilities to
help the recuperation of military personnel injured in Iraq and Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 24, 2013 Friday 8:20 AM GMT

Man and woman, both 29, arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to murder following
Woolwich terror attack

BYLINE: MARK DUELL and MARTIN ROBINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1782 words



     ·    It takes total number of arrests over yesterday's London killing to
          four
     ·    Two men who were shot by police remain in hospital under armed guard
     ·    Suspects reported to be Michael Adebowale, 22, and Michael Adebolajo,
          28
     ·    Six residential addresses in London and Lincolnshire searched in 24
          hours


A man and a woman, both 29, have been arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to
murder in relation to the Woolwich terror killing of Drummer Lee Rigby, Scotland
Yard has revealed.

A total of four people including the two men shot by police have now been held
in connection with the brutal killing that has shocked Britain.

The latest pair arrested were being questioned at a south London police station
last night.

The two men who were shot, reported to be Michael Adebowale, 22, and Michael
Adebolajo, 28, have been arrested on suspicion of murder and remain in hospital
in a stable condition with non life-threatening injuries.

Scroll down for video

Drummer Rigby washacked to death by two attackers in Woolwich, south-east London
on Wednesday at 2.20pm.

Michael Adebolajo, 28, and his alleged accomplice Michael Adebowale are believed
to have run down the off-duty British soldier with a Vauxhall Tigra as he walked
back to the Woolwich Barracks, crushing his body against a road sign.

Witnesses said the terror suspects then 'hacked and chopped' at his body like
'crazed animals', before dragging his corpse into the middle of the road leaving
a trail of blood.

As they apparently tried to decapitate him they were chanting 'Allah Akbar!' -
an Islamic phrase meaning 'God is great' - and yelling 'this is what God would
have wanted'.

A blood-soaked man believed to be Adebolajo, who was still holding a number of
weapons in his red-stained hands, then ranted on camera in a clear London accent
saying: 'You people will never be safe' before telling a passer-by they had not
fled because they were waiting to 'shoot the police'.

Within 20 minutes armed officers arrived and the fundamentalists charged at them
wielding firearms, knives and a machete.

Police opened fire, taking the pair down with up to eight bullets. The suspects
remain under armed guard in two separate London hospitals.

Scotland Yard said six residential addresses were searched yesterday as part of
the investigation - three in south London, one in east London, one in north
London and one in Lincolnshire.

'This is a large, complex and fast-moving investigation which continues to
develop,' a spokesman said. 'Many lines of inquiry are being followed by
detectives and the investigation is progressing well.'

Officers recovered various items from the scene and were appealing for witnesses
to send in footage and photographs of the incident. A post mortem was taking
place on Drummer Rigby's body today.

Last night U.S. President Barack Obama issued a statement to say: 'I condemn in
the strongest terms the appalling attack against a British service member in
Woolwich on May 22.

'The United States stands resolute with the United Kingdom, our ally and friend,
against violent extremism and terror.

'There can be absolutely no justification for such acts, and our thoughts and
prayers are with the family of the victim, the police and security services
responding to this horrific act and the communities they serve, and the British
people.'

Earlier tributes were paid to Drummer Rigby, 25, from Crumpsall, Manchester who
had a two-year-old son. He was from 2nd Battalion The Royal Regiment of
Fusiliers, and was attached to the Regimental Recruiting Team in London.

Sergeant Barry Ward said he was 'a loving father' to his two-year-old son Jack,
and had 'a very bubbly character'.

A shocked and tearful neighbour outside the family home in Middleton, Greater
Manchester, who did not want to be named, said: 'He had always wanted to be in
the army since he was knee high.'

A steady stream of relatives and friends visited the house throughout the day to
support the family. Police and PCSOs also stood guard outside the house and
patrolled the street.

'The United States stands resolute with the United Kingdom, our ally and friend,
against violent extremism and terror'

U.S. President Barack Obama

Drummer Rigby, who joined the Army in 2006, had served in Helmand province,
Afghanistan, where he was a member of the Fire Support Group in Patrol Base
Woqab.

A life-long Manchester United fan, he had also stood outside the Royal Palaces
as part of his battalion's public duties commitment.

The Rt Rev Mark Davies, The Bishop of Middleton, said: 'The nation has been
shocked by Lee's death. But the greatest burden is carried by those he knew and
loved. Our prayers and sympathies are with his family, friends and those he
served with.'

Alfie Swain, who said he had met Drummer Rigby, told BBC News: 'I can't explain
it, how much it hurts. It's just disappointing.

'I'd met him in and out of the Army base itself. Hearing that he's gone is just
destroying. He was a nice man. He was caring, loving. To hear that he's gone is
just disappointing.

'The nation has been shocked by Lee's death. But the greatest burden is carried
by those he knew and loved'

Rt Rev Mark Davies, Bishop of Middleton

'I'm just terribly, terribly upset. I just want to burst into tears right now.'

Eyewitnesses said that one of the attackers charged towards officers clutching
bloodied weapons including a meat cleaver, while the other brandished a gun.

One chilling video clip showed a man with heavily blood-stained hands claiming
the killing was committed in the name of Allah and ranting about the Government.

He said: 'We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you.' The
attacker went on: 'We must fight them as they fight us. An eye for an eye, a
tooth for a tooth.'

Today officers searched the former home of a man called Michael Adebolajo in
Saxilby, Lincolnshire, as well as other addresses in London.

This afternoon two police vans were stationed outside a ground-floor flat in
east Greenwich, south-east London, with about a dozen officers positioned
outside. The front door of the flat in Eastney Street, had been shattered.

One neighbour said four people had been led away from the flat at 6am, and that
two children, aged three and seven, were also taken away.

Another neighbour Nicola James, 45, said she believed one of the men arrested
over the Woolwich incident was in a relationship with one of the two women who
live at the Greenwich flat.

Ms James said she had not seen the other suspect around the housing estate, but
added: 'He was always out in Woolwich, giving out radical leaflets.'

Following a meeting of the Cobra emergency response committee today, Prime
Minister David Cameron said the attack had 'sickened' the country.

He said: 'This country will be absolutely resolute in its stand against violent
extremism and terror. We will never give in to terror or terrorism in any of its
forms.'

Anjem Choudary, former leader of banned Islamic group Al Muhajiroun, said he
knew one of the attackers but had not seen him for about two years.

He claimed to recognise the man who was filmed wielding a bloodied meat cleaver
while saying: 'We swear by almighty Allah we will never stop fighting you.'

'This country will be absolutely resolute in its stand against violent extremism
and terror. We will never give in to terror or terrorism in any of its forms'

Prime Minister David Cameron

A Crown Prosecution Service spokesman said prosecutors have given the police
investigating team initial advice about the case.

He said: 'As is standard practice, we have provided some initial investigative
advice to the police. We will continue to do so as required.'

Police watchdog the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) said it is
not pursuing any criminal or misconduct offences in relation to the officers who
used their weapons.

IPCC investigators have viewed CCTV of what happened, and said two officers
fired guns and one discharged a Taser. They have given initial accounts of what
happened.

IPCC commissioner Derrick Campbell said: 'Our investigation is as a result of
the tragic events yesterday and I would like to express my sincere sympathies to
the family of Lee Rigby at this terrible time.

'We have viewed CCTV footage of the police shooting. At this stage we are not
pursuing any criminal or misconduct offences. Officers have provided initial
statements and we will be obtaining additional accounts.

'The IPCC is independently verifying information regarding the circumstances of
this incident and we can promise the Woolwich community, and wider public, that
our investigation will be thorough.'


     ·    Anyone who may have witnessed the incident was asked to contact police
          on 0800 789321. Anyone who filmed or took photos as events unfolded in
          John Wilson Street was also asked to send them to police in confidence
          via woolwich@metincident.co.uk


'WE PRAY FOR HIS SOUL': MOURNERS PAY RESPECTS TO DRUMMER RIGBY

Mourners gathered tonight to pay their respects to the soldier killed in the
brutal terrorist attack.

Around a dozen sat in silence in St Mary Magdalene Parish Church, Woolwich,
offering their prayers for Drummer Lee Rigby, 25, of Middleton, Greater
Manchester.

The Rt Revd Christopher Chessun, Bishop of Southwark, said he had come to show
'solidarity' with members of all faiths shocked by the 'horrifying' murder.

The Bishop said: 'The event has of course traumatised many people locally, and
indeed across the whole nation, because of the horrifying nature of this event.

'The community has rallied together, and shown that sense of solidarity, of
people of good will uniting together.

He went on: 'We are simply encouraging people to come and spend some time in
silent, concentrated, focused prayer.

'I wanted to come to pay my own respects and secondly to show solidarity with
this community which has suffered greatly.'

The mourners sat in silence as readings were given and hymns were played, just
streets away from where Drummer Lee Rigby was murdered.

A sign on the door read: 'People of all faiths are welcome. We will be praying
for those affected by the sad incident in Woolwich yesterday.'

Some brought flowers into the quiet service. The rector of Woolwich, Rev Jesse
van der Valk, paid tribute to the women who 'were brave enough to stand up' to
the attackers.

He told the congregation: 'It's one of the incredible things that there were
women brave enough to stand up to the people who carried out this killing and
actually kneel with the man and to say some prayers with him.'

After giving a reading from the Book of Psalms, he added: 'We pray for the soul
of the youngster, as we have come here to show our unity and concern for the
community.'

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                              May 24, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mourners re-live pure terror of brutal attack

BYLINE: NADIA GILANI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 179 words


A STEADY flow of mourners left cards, flowers and soft toys near the spot where
Drummer Lee Rigby was mown down.

Mother-of-four Clare Lakin, 34, placed a large bunch of flowers, tied with a
pink ribbon, outside the barracks, with three of her children standing
alongside.

She described the terror she felt as she went to pick up her daughter from
Mulgrove primary school. It went into lockdown after the headteacher saw Drummer
Rigby's body lying in the road. 'It's absolutely monstrous,' she said. 'All the
parents were in a state. The kids were scared and teachers were crying. No-one
could make sense of what was going on or why.

'It's so sad and too close to home. It happened outside a school, some of the
witnesses are my friends. Everyone's still in shock.' A friend of the woman
photographed crouching beside his body said she 'was doing okay'.

Neil Ellis, 36, from Woolwich, said: 'She's very brave, I couldn't have done
that. It must have been traumatic for her. I think it will take her a long time
to move on. That was human instinct, I think she deserves an award.'

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Community: A group of Sikhs wait to lay flowers nearby
Pulling together: A man is comforted near to the crime scene
PICTURE: GETTY
PICTURE: EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                              May 24, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

A TRUE WARRIOR;
MI5 HAD BEEN TRACKING HIS KILLERS FOR 8 YEARS WOOLWICH TERROR ATTACK SOLDIER
WHOSE MURDER SHOCKED THE WORLD

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 69 words


PROUD and resolute in his ceremonial uniform, this is the British soldier
murdered by two Islamist fanatics in an outrage that shocked the world.

; Drummer Lee Rigby, 25, of 2nd Battalion The Royal Regiment of Fusiliers - an
Afghan veteran and father of a two-year-old son - was described last night by
comrades as "a true warrior". It emerged that MI5 had been tracking his killers
for eight years.

; SEE PAGES 4&5, 6&7

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Skegness Standard

                              May 24, 2013 Friday

Lincolnshire residents warned against inciting racial hatred in wake of Woolwich
terrorist attack

LENGTH: 299  words


Lincolnshire residents have been urged to remain calm and refrain from making
incendiary comments online in the wake of Wednesday's Islamic terrorist murder
of a British soldier in Woolwich.

Feelings in the county were running high yesterday following reports that a
Saxilby property believed to have been the former home of one of the alleged
murderers, had been searched in connection with the brutal attack.

Lincolnshire Police, which is supporting the Met's murder investigation, has
received a number of reports' about social media posts that could potentially
incite racial hatred and violence'.

"We would urge people to consider the very real impact of their online comments
in relation to this matter," said a spokesperson.

"We have received a number of reports from local members of the public about
tweets and Facebook comments that could potentially incite racial hatred and
violence.

"These are currently being investigated. If such communications are reported to
us and they do breach the law, those messages may be monitored; captured and
robust police action will be considered."

The 25-year-old soldier Drummer Lee Rigby was run down by a vehicle and then
hacked to death by two terrorists as he returned to the Royal Artillery Barracks
in Woolwich on Wednesday afternoon.

His death led to an outpouring of grief from family and fellow soldiers but also
inflamed racial and religious tension, leading to attacks on Mosques and
demonstrations from the Far Right English Defence League.

"Although we are unable to comment on any aspect of ongoing investigations, we
realise the events of the last couple of days will have had a significant impact
on people living in Lincolnshire," the spokesperson added.

"We would urge people to be calm and measure in their response to recent
events."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MSKP


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 24, 2013 Friday 10:03 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: Police let women risk their lives during wait for armed back
up;
The police response to the Woolwich terrorist attack has come in for further
criticism after it emerged that uniformed officers allowed members of the public
to intervene while they waited for armed back up.

BYLINE: By Martin Evans and Christopher Hope

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 358 words


Unarmed officers were on the scene of the murder within nine minutes of the
first onlookers dialling 999.

But, apparently fearing that the terrorists could be luring them into a trap,
they hung back and waited five minutes for armed units to arrive.

During this period, three women - Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, 48, Amanda Donnelly, 44,
and her daughter Gemini, 20 - approached the armed attackers to remonstrate with
them or try to offer some comfort to the victim.

Questions were being asked as to why the police officers allowed members of the
public to put their lives at risk.

Sources within the Met said officers were told to stay back amid concerns that
the attack was part of a deliberate ploy to kill police officers by detonating
booby traps.

However, it remained unclear whether the uniformed officers who were first on
the scene were acting on orders from their commanders, or whether they were
following their training.

It is understood that while it took almost a quarter of an hour for armed
officers to arrive, senior officers were monitoring events via a CCTV camera
mounted on a traffic island close by.

Keith Vaz MP, the chairman of the House of Commons home affairs select
committee, said: "I am most surprised to learn that police officers did not
intervene while those brave and courageous women were speaking to the
assailants." He said he would be asking for a "full explanation why this was the
case".

Mr Vaz, who is in charge of monitoring the work of the police on behalf of
Parliament, said it was similar to the London riots in 2011 when the police were
heavily criticised for standing back while looters went into shops.

He raised the prospect of rules being rewritten to allow unarmed police officers
to intervene in life and death situations, rather than require them to stand
back.

He added: "If there are guidelines preventing them from intervening then they
need to be put to one side during life and death situations."

A spokesman for Scotland Yard said such matters were likely to form part of the
Independent Police Complaints Commission investigation which was automatically
triggered after police discharged weapons at the scene.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 24, 2013 Friday 9:14 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: The right response to terrorism in Britain;
The Prime Minister's determination to keep at bay those hostile to our values
must endure

BYLINE: By Telegraph View

LENGTH: 717 words


For a few minutes yesterday, hearts were back in mouths as reports circulated of
a passenger aircraft from Pakistan being diverted to Stansted, and fighter jets
being scrambled, after a disturbance on board. In the end, the incident was
resolved without harm. But in the wake of the brutal attack on Drummer Lee
Rigby, it was understandable that the nation's nerves should be frayed.

After such a traumatic week, it may seem odd to argue that we have cause to be
thankful - even optimistic. But we do, and not just because of what the response
to the tragedy in Woolwich said about Britain's strengths, or because of the
remarkable fact that this was the first terrorist killing on British soil since
2005. It is because we appear both to have come to terms with the latest
terrorist threat to this country, and to have devised broadly the right
response.

This was not a rapid or painless process. In the years after the September 11
attacks, and especially in the wake of the July 7 bombings, we did many things
wrong. The then government realised that it needed to expand its powers to
monitor and detain extremists, but in the process succumbed to its authoritarian
instincts. The result was a battery of measures, ranging from control orders to
detention without charge to national ID cards, that veered towards the
illiberal. At the same time, the counter-terrorism establishment poured
resources into the Prevent strategy, which sought to appease many of the most
extreme Islamists, but ended up empowering them.

Yet slowly, imperceptibly, the system corrected itself. Lawyers, campaigners and
journalists took issue with Labour's proposals, arguing loudly and vigorously
against them - or for even tougher measures. During this rowdy philosophical
tug-of-war, many on the Left came to accept that their multiculturalist
orthodoxy was actually setting community against community. We ended up with a
Coalition with an explicit commitment to restoring civil liberties, and a Prime
Minister determined to end the conciliation - via Prevent - of those most
hostile to our values.

Partly, this process was enabled by Britain's free and democratic press, and the
culture of argument it fosters - something that must be preserved at all costs,
as the great American journalist Carl Bernstein argues on our news pages today.
But it also resulted from the sense of proportion that runs through our national
life, with its proper understanding of the limits of the state. Thus
hate-fuelled organisations such as al-Muhajiroun and Islam4UK were banned, and
their plans to picket the funeral processions of British soldiers blocked. But
Anjem Choudary, a leader of both groups, has been allowed the freedom of speech
to express his views - and to have his vile distortion of the Koran challenged
by Muslims, Christians and secularists alike. Similarly, the British National
Party and English Defence League were permitted to spout their venom, and
thereby exposed as a tiny, witless minority of bigots and thugs.

Of course, as we argued yesterday, there is no cause for complacency. Islamist
networks remain in place, and their propagandists have infiltrated charities,
prisons and most especially universities. Eradicating their influence will take
years, if not decades, as will opening up the closed communities whose links to
their homelands (fostered via satellite television) are far stronger than to the
society around them. But again, it is better - and more British - to do this via
persuasion than coercion.

There is a broader point here. We in this country are all too prone to wallow in
our problems - which are certainly formidable. Yet there is more, much more,
that this country does right. Take immigration. This remains a major concern,
and understandably so, even though the numbers arriving are falling as a result
of the Coalition's efforts. But why do people want to come here in the first
place? Our welfare system certainly has its attractions, but most immigrants
come because of Britain's success in creating an economy which generates jobs,
and a society that is tolerant enough and attractive enough that others want to
be part of it. As we said above, the response to this week's events should not
provoke complacency. But this country still has cause for a certain amount of
quiet pride.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 24, 2013 Friday 8:59 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: Al Muhajiroun's links to terrorism;
One in five terrorists convicted in Britain over more than a decade were either
members of or had previous links to the extremist group al-Muhajiroun, a study
shows.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 467 words


The group, founded by the Islamic fanatics Omar Bakri Mohammed and his deputy
Anjem Choudary, was eventually banned in 2010 but not before radicalising a wave
of British Muslims.

It has emerged the suspects in the murder of Drummer Lee Rigby, Michael
Adebolajo, 28, and Michael Adebowale, 22, both had links with the hardcore
extremists.

Research also shows in the 12 years up to the group's proscription, some 18 per
cent of people convicted of Islamic-inspired terrorism offences had current or
past links with the group, according to research by the Henry Jackson Society, a
counter-extremism think tank.

They included Omar Khyam, who was jailed life in 2007 for leading the
"fertiliser bomb" plot, which was to target London nightclubs and other public
buildings.

He became involved with al-Muhajiroun while studying for his A-levels and was
allegedly sent by the group to fight in Kashmir in 2000.

In March 2007, Abdul Muhid was convicted in March 2007 for soliciting to murder
during the Danish Embassy anti-cartoon protests.

He was also convicted in April 2008 for fundraising for terrorism after a speech
made in Regent's Park mosque in November 2004. Muhid led the Danish Embassy
anti-cartoon protests and was a member of al-Muhajiroun.

In another case, in March 1999, al-Muhajiroun member Amer Mirza, was convicted
of petrol-bombing a Territorial Army base in West London in protest of the
resumed American bombing campaign in Iraq.

Whitehall sources said people would join the group "slightly radicalised" and
leave it "very radicalised".

Choudary first met Adebolajo in 2005 but insisted he had not seen him for a
number of years. He said he could not remember Adebowale, although Bakri said
Choudary did know him.

Alan Mendoza, executive director of the HJS, said: "Al-Muhajiroun's targeting of
soldiers is not an isolated incident, but part of an ongoing campaign of
violence and intimidation.

"Al-Muhajiroun was connected to terrorist acts for well over a decade. Despite
banning the group, the government has been unable to effectively halt their
activities.

"The tragic consequences of this have now been displayed on the streets of
London."

The fanatical group and its later offshoot Islam4UK gained notoriety in the
years after the 9/11 attacks and were accused of radicalising many young
Britons.

Al-Muhajiroun was first founded by the hate cleric Omar Bakri Muhammad in Saudi
Arabia in 1983 but was banned there three years later and Bakri fled to the UK.

He first joined Hizb ut-Tahrir but left the controversial organisation in 1996,
because it was not extreme enough for him, and he relaunched Al-Muhajiroun,
along with his deputy Choudary.

Bakri helped organise a seminar after the September 11 attacks in favour of the
"Magnificent 19" and went on to call the July 7 bombers the "Fantastic Four".

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 24, 2013 Friday 7:05 AM GMT

Woolwich attack: as it happened May 23;
Thursday's coverage following a terror attack in Woolwich, London on Wednesday
in which a soldier was apparently beheaded by two Islamist terrorists.

BYLINE: By Hayley Dixon and Melanie Hall

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 9628 words


Soldier murdered in Woolwich named as Drummer Lee Rigby
Full story: 'soldier beheaded' in 'Islamist terror attack'
Two suspects shot and injured by armed police
Theresa May convenes meeting of COBR
Prime Minister returns from France
Police appeal for calm following 'attack
Eyewitness: attack like 'something out of a film'
Aerial footage shows crashed car and blood


Latest

Live updates have finished for Thursday night - follow Friday's Woolwich attack:
latest live blog.

00.15 The second suspect in the Woolwich murder has been named as Michael
Adebowale, who has reportedly been known for handing out radical leaflets, while
a woman believed to be his girlfriend had recently converted to Islam.
Neighbours identified him from images but official sources would not confirm the
name.

23.30 A mother and daughter, part of the trio dubbed the "Angels of Woolwich"
after facing up to the soldier's killers, have denied being brave, saying "it
had to be done".

Gemini Donnelly-Martin, 20, and her mother Amanda, 44, said that they walked up
to the two attackers and asked if they could comfort Drummer Lee Rigby, who was
killed in a savage assault after being stabbed and hacked with a knife and meat
cleaver.

"We did what anyone would do," she told the Daily Mirror. "We just wanted to
take care of the man. It wasn't brave. Anyone would have done it. It had to be
done. They [the killers] said women could pass."

"The only thing people need to worry about is that poor man's mum. We are
grateful, though, for what people are saying about us."

22.40 Ingrid Loyau-Kennet, the woman who confronted one of the attackers in the
Woolwich murder, has spoken of how she tried to calm the man down.

22.08 The Armed Forces Senior Imam Asim Hafiz described the attack as "horrific,
heinous and totally unprovoked".

He said: "I would like to offer my condolences to the family and friends of the
victim of this crime. This attack was a horrific, heinous and totally unprovoked
crime which has no place in Islam and the British Muslim community has
unequivocally condemned it.

"There are nearly a thousand Muslims serving in the Armed Forces. They are proud
to serve alongside their comrades, one of whom they tragically lost yesterday.
The Armed Forces are about defending the United Kingdom and everyone who lives
in this country - Muslim and non-Muslims.

"Having worked as an Imam in the Armed Forces for eight years and spent nearly a
year in Afghanistan working with the British military, I have seen firsthand the
tremendous work that the British military is doing to establish peace and
security. They are trying to help Afghans in partnership with other Afghans for
a brighter future."

21.34 Abu Baraa, a friend of the killer Adebolajo, called him a "very caring,
very concerning" man who "just wanted to help everybody". He told CNN: "I wasn't
surprised that it happened... Britain is only responsible, the government, and I
believe all of us, as a public, we are responsible. We should condemn ourselves,
why we did not do enough to stop these wars going on in Iraq and Afghanistan."

He added that Adebolajo had been "very vocal" about his feelings that Muslims
overseas were being oppressed.

21.13 Drummer Lee Rigby's commanding officer Lt Col Jim Taylor has paid tribute
to the soldier:

20.55 Police have tonight charged two men in separate attacks on mosques, in
what is thought to have been "revenge" following the murder of Drummer Lee Rigby
in Woolwich.

Andrew Grindley, 45, from Rochester, has been charged with racially aggravated
criminal damage and burglary following the mosque in Canterbury Street,
Gillingham, Kent.

Police have also rrested Geoffrey Ryan, 43, on suspicion of attempted arson
after he reportedly walked into a mosque with a knife in Braintree, Essex.

20.25 The family of Drummer Lee Rigby tonight paid tribute to the soldier,
saying: "Lee was lovely. He would do anything for anybody, he always looked
after his sisters and always protected them. He took a 'big brother' role with
everyone.

"All he wanted to do from when he was a little boy, was be in the Army. He
wanted to live life and enjoy himself. His family meant everything to him. He
was a loving son, husband, father, brother, and uncle, and a friend to many.

"We ask that our privacy be respected at this difficult time."

19.47 Telegraph TV has a video of Anjem Choudary, former leader of banned
Islamic group Al Muhajiroun, refusing to condemn the murder of Drummer Lee
Rigby, saying one of the alleged attackers had shown concern and regret for his
actions.

19.24 Louisa Peacock asks how parents explain the Woolwich attack to young
children.

Behind the sensationalism and media frenzy, behind the trauma, shock and outrage
of what has happened, what should parents tell their children about the Woolwich
attack? Should they wait until their child asks a question, or should they
deliberately approach them about the subject? Should parents talk about murder,
and if so, how do you approach the subject of death with young people? Would you
mention the 'terrorism' aspect of the Woolwich story, or avoid it?

Of course every parenting style is different and each family will have their own
ways of dealing with shocking news. It will also depend on how old your children
are as to how much detail you go into.

19.15 Six residential addresses are being search as part of the investigation -
including three in south London, one in east London, one in north London and one
in Lincolnshire.

19.00 Some 1,200 extra police officers have been deployed across London tonight
in the wake of the attack.

"We're aiming to reassure the public. The officers will be deployed at key
locations including religious venues, transport hubs and busy areas," a
spokesman told the AFP news agency.

18.55President Barack Obama has issued a statement condemning the attacks.

"I condemn in the strongest terms the appalling attack against a British service
member in Woolwich on May 22.

"The United States stands resolute with the United Kingdom, our ally and friend,
against violent extremism and terror. There can be absolutely no justification
for such acts, and our thoughts and prayers are with the family of the victim,
the police and security services responding to this horrific act and the
communities they serve, and the British people."

18.38

Anjem Choudary, centre, and Michael Adebolajo, left in the white hat, at a
protest (BBC)

18.34Edward Malnick reports that open sessions for "prayer and reflection" for
people of all faiths are being held for the local community at St Mary Magdalene
parish church by the rector of Woolwich, the Rev Jesse van der Valk.

Dr Michael Ipgrave, the Bishop of Woolwich, who spent time at the church last
night and most of today said he had found residents shocked and saddened.

But he added: "It has shown the extend to which there are strong links between
communities. I have been in close contact with the mosque, I have just been to a
Mass at the Roman Catholic church, and I am going to a local meeting tonight
organised by the council of faith leaders.

"There is a real sense of commitment to make sure that this does not drive us
apart."

18.25The Met adds that a 22-year-old man and a 28-year-old man shot by police at
the scene and arrested on suspicion of murder remain in separate London
hosptials and are both in a stable condition.

Their injuries are not life threatening.

The statement adds: "Search warrants have been executed under PACE at six
residential addresses; three in south London, one in east London, one in north
London and one in Lincoln. The searches are ongoing."

18.23The Metropolitan Police has released a new statement, saying a 29-year-old
man was arrested today on suspicion of conspiracy to murder.

A 29-year-old woman was arrested at a residential address in south London on
suspicion of the same offence.

Both remain in custody at a south London police station.

18.20Scotland Yard announces two more arrests.

Twitter: Metropolitan Police - The Counter Terrorism Command has made two
further arrests today as part of their investigation into the murder of a
soldier in #Woolwich

18.18 Twitter: Nigel Farage - Sincere and heartfelt condolences to the family
and friends of Drummer Rigby. #Theyshallnotgrowold

18.13 The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) says it is not
pursuing any criminal or misconduct offences in relation to the officers who
used their weapons.

IPCC investigators have viewed CCTV of what happened and say two officers fired
guns and one discharged a Taser.

Derrick Campbell, IPCC commissioner, says: "Our investigation is as a result of
the tragic events yesterday and I would like to express my sincere sympathies to
the family of Lee Rigby at this terrible time.

"We have viewed CCTV footage of the police shooting. At this stage we are not
pursuing any criminal or misconduct offences.

"Officers have provided initial statements and we will be obtaining additional
accounts.

"The IPCC is independently verifying information regarding the circumstances of
this incident and we can promise the Woolwich community, and wider public, that
our investigation will be thorough."

Drummer Lee Rigby (MoD)

18.07 Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, says the entire defence community
is "shocked and saddened" by the killing of Drummer Rigby.

He says: "This was a senseless murder of a soldier who has served the Army
faithfully in a variety of roles, including operational tours in Afghanistan.
Our thoughts today are with his family and loved ones.

"The Chief of the Defence Staff, General Sir David Richards, said the killing
had only reinforced the determination within the Armed Forces.

"We are absolutely determined not to be intimidated into not doing the right
thing, whether it is here in this country or in Afghanistan or wherever we seek
to serve the nation."

He says that he and the Prime Minister have agreed that personnel should resume
wearing their military uniforms when they are off base.

"I think this is a completely isolated incident - we wait to hear more but that
is our view," he says.

"There is no reason at all why we should not wear our uniforms with pride, but
on a common sense basis."

17.46 The Rt Revd Mark Davies, The Bishop of Middleton, says: "The nation has
been shocked by Lee's death. But the greatest burden is carried by those he knew
and loved.

"Our prayers and sympathies are with his family, friends and those he served
with."

17.35 Nicola James, 45, who lives next to the Greenwich flat that was raided by
police earlier, tells Josie Ensor she had seen the second suspect around the
estate in the last few months.

She says: "After his girlfriend's mother died a month ago he kept coming around.
I think she had converted to Islam for him two years ago.

"There were lots of small children in the house which might have been them. She
sometimes wore a burka and other times would cover her whole face.

"He was always preaching in Woolwich High Street, while you could hear the
girlfriend praying and chanting in the flat.

"The family were all quite quiet, they didn't socialise with people on the
estate."

17.27 Sergeant Barry Ward, Drum Major Second Fusiliers, says: "Drummer Rigby was
a loving father with a very bubbly character. He was an excellent Drummer, loved
his job and was a highly popular member of the Platoon.

"He had served in Afghanistan as an FSG Operator and was very diligent in his
work. He was always around when needed and will be sorely missed by all members
of the Second Fusiliers Corps of Drums."

17.26 Ned Miller, Warrant Officer Class 1, Regimental Sergeant Major Second
Fusiliers, says: "Riggers is what every battalion needs. He was one of the
Battalion's great characters always smiling and always ready to brighten the
mood with his fellow Fusiliers.

"He was an excellent drummer and well respected within the Drums platoon. He was
easily identified whilst on parade by the huge smile on his face and how proud
he was to be a member of the Drums.

"He would always stop for a chat just to tell me Manchester United would win the
league again. My thoughts are with his family and they will always be part of
the Fusilier family."

17.23 Captain Alan Williamson, Adjutant Second Fusiliers and Drummer Rigby's
Platoon Commander from 2010-2011, says:Drummer Rigby was known as 'Riggers'
within the Platoon and was "a cheeky and humorous man, always there with a joke
to brighten the mood."

He says: "He was an extremely popular member of the Fire Support Group (FSG). An
excellent side drummer and highly competent machine gunner, he was always there
to help out the younger members of the FSG whenever possible.

"His loss will be felt across the Battalion but this is nothing compared to how
his family must be feeling at this difficult time. Our thoughts and prayers are
with them."

17.21 Lieutenant Colonel Jim Taylor MBE, Commanding Officer Second Fusiliers,
pays tribute to "a dedicated and professional soldier."

He says: "He was a real character within the Second Fusiliers. Larger than life,
he was at the heart of our Corps of Drums.

"An experienced and talented side drummer and machine gunner, he was a true
warrior and served with distinction in Afghanistan, Germany and Cyprus.

"His ability, talent and personality made him a natural choice to work in the
recruiting group. He will be sorely missed by everyone in the Second Fusiliers.
Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends at this incredibly
difficult time. Once a Fusilier, Always a Fusilier."

17.18 Drummer Rigby, 25, from Crumpsall, Manchester was from 2nd Battalion The
Royal Regiment of Fusiliers, attached to the Regimental Recruiting Team in
London.

17.16The Ministry of Defence pays tribute to Drummer Rigby as "an extremely
popular and witty soldier." In a statement it says: "Drummer Rigby was a larger
than life personality within the Corps of Drums and was well known, liked and
respected across the Second Fusiliers. He was a passionate and life-long
Manchester United fan.

"A loving father to his son Jack, aged 2 years, he will be sorely missed by all
who knew him. The Regiment's thoughts and prayers are with his family during
this extremely difficult time."

17.03 The British soldier hacked to death has been named as Drummer Lee Rigby .

16.50 A family linked to one of the suspects would keep their neighbours up all
night with Islamic chanting, neighbours have said.

Residents in a Greenwich estate said that one of the woman staying at the house,
thought to be the girlfriend of one of the killers, converted to Islam two and a
half years ago.

The flat is thought to belong to a woman who died five weeks ago. Since then her
two daughters - one of whom neighbours said was the girlfriend of one of the
suspects - would sometimes stay there.

The suspect who has not yet been identified - the man in the green jacket - was
also seen there, along with a 15-year old boy, thought to be the son of one of
the women.

Police 'armed to the hilt' smashed their way into the home morning, carrying
machine guns and wearing bullet proof vests.

Neighbour Nicola James, 45, said of the family: "When you walked passed you
would hear them singing Muslim songs. You would hear them chanting through the
windows.

"The gran who used to live there died and since then there has been a lot of
comings and goings.

"I saw the man who was in the video in the green jacket go inside the house. I
think he was a boyfriend.

"The woman I think he went out with wore a full niqab. She converted to Islam
about two and a half years ago.

"There's a teenage boy who lives there sometimes too. He used to cause trouble
on my part of the estate. He came over to my part of the estate once and my dog
bit him.

"The family tried to take me to court but I won the case. His mum headbutted
me."

16.47 Alfie Swain, who said he had met the victim, told BBC News of his grief at
the news. He said: "I can't explain it, how much it hurts. It's just
disappointing.

"I'd met him in and out of the Army base itself. Hearing that he's gone is just
destroying. He was a nice man. He was caring, loving. To hear that he's gone is
just disappointing.

"I'm just terribly, terribly upset. I just want to burst into tears right now.

But the would-be soldier said yesterday's atrocity will not stop him from
joining the Army.

"I've wanted to join the Army since I was a kid, I've been thinking about it so
now I'm going to do it.

"I'm going to join up no matter what. I know it's going to be hard for me but
I'm going to join up and do the best that I can.

16.40 The charity Help For Heroes was swamped with donations today, leading to
its website crashing.

The popular military support group was deluged with calls, donations and demands
for its merchandise, prompting its website to go down due to massive internet
traffic.

Supporters took to Twitter and social networks in a bid to boost the charity's
coffers after a soldier wearing a Help For Heroes top was hacked to death by
Islamic extremists in Woolwich, south east London, yesterday.

Celebrities such as Michael Vaughan, the ex-England cricketer, and the
adventurer and broadcaster Ben Fogle were among those urging well-wishers to
give money to the charity.

Today, Help For Heroes offered its thanks for the "extraordinary demonstration
of support".

16.16 Julie Siddiqi, of the Islamic Society of Britain, tells the Telegraph that
Britain's Muslim community have been left "sickened" by the horrific killing of
a soldier in Woolwich "just like everybody else".

16.10 Nick Robinson, the BBC's political Editor, has apologised for saying the
attackers were of "Muslim appearance".

The corporation received 43 complaints after Mr Robinson used the term on the 6
o'clock news.

In his blog today the senior journalist wrote that his instinct told him was
that it was an act of terrorism, and he had tried to establish whether this was
true.

"With minutes to go before the BBC News at Six I was told by a senior Whitehall
source that the incident was being treated as a suspected terrorist incident and
being taken very seriously indeed.

"This information changed the news from a crime story to something of more
significance. The police had, I was told, described the attackers as being "of
Muslim appearance" and shouting "Allahu Akbar". On air I directly quoted a
senior Whitehall source saying that the police had used that description.

"That phrase "of Muslim appearance" clearly offended some who demanded to know
what it could possibly mean. Others were concerned that it was a racist
generalisation."

He said later reports and videos backed up the idea that the attack was linked
to terrorism.

"Despite this and the fact that I was directly quoting a source I'm sorry for
using a phrase that, on reflection, was both liable to be misinterpreted and to
cause offence."

Twitter: Nick Robinson - @deadwood1976 No-one asked, suggested or discussed me
making an apology let alone made me do it. I chose to

15.48 Parents at Mulgrave Primary School, next to the site of the killing,
described to Claire Carter a school in 'lock down' after the murder.

Terri Vosper said: "I used to see the guy around in Woolwich praying and
preaching for Allah and stuff like that. I've lived here my whole life and I
don't want to live here anymore.

"We've been told the headteacher saw the body outside and then there was a lock
down. All the gates were locked and the doors and windows, and all the curtains
got shut."

Parents said children were told to go into the hall after the school was closed,
and wait for their parents.

Penelope Marsh, who has a four year old at the school, said: "As soon as the
headteacher knew what was going on they just closed the school up.

"It went into lockdown. They closed everything up, pulled down all the blinds
and kept the children in. They sent us a text message to come and pick the
children up. "

Natasha Wood, 26, said she thought she had seen one of the men and the two
women, who tried to help the victim, before in Woolwich. She said: "Luckily the
playground my son was in is at the back so he didn't see anything.

"It was mad. We had to wait for ages. I just wanted to get my son. We had to
wait for ages for them to open the gates.

"One of the guys involved definitely looked familiar. We have probably passed
him in the street.

"Those two women were so brave to go there when that happened."

Parents said they had heard the headmaster had seen the body and then said the
school must be locked to protect the children.

Some parents said their children had been scared to go to school on Thursday.

Twitter: Boris Johnson - 2/2 - Clear & overwhelming message from the community
meeting - London won't be divided by this sickening atrocity.

15.38 Residents in the quiet Lincolnshire village of Saxilby have expressed
their surprise that officers from Scotland Yard had raided a home in the area in
connection with yesterday's brutal murder.

"I knew nothing until this morning," one man said. "I went out about 9.30, saw
one police car and a few guys starting to walk around.

"I didn't think much to it but when I came back about one and a half, two hours
later, police, media were all here."

He said he had not seen anyone in the area who resembled either of the Woolwich
suspects. He added: "It is unusual to see an ethnic minority face around here.
This is traditional, rural middle England. It's just the way it is.

"So if they were living here, or one of them, or a family was here, they pretty
well kept themselves to themselves."

Police cars blocked off the roads and officers appeared to be searching a large
executive house. It is thought they had been working inside for some hours.

15.36 A police raid on a flat on a housing estate in east Greenwich, south-east
London, this morning, is thought to be linked to the attack.

This afternoon two police vans were stationed outside the ground-floor flat on
Eastney Street, with about a dozen officers stationed outside. The front door of
the flat had been shattered.

One neighbour said four people had been led away from the flat at 6am, and that
two children, aged three and seven, were also taken away.

The 62-year-old, who did not want to be named, said: "I've never noticed
anything suspicious.

"When I saw the police here, first of all I thought it was drugs, then I heard
people saying it was something to do with what happened yesterday."

The flat has now been sealed off by officers.

15.21 Former neighbours of Michael Adebolajo have described him as a "nasty kid"
who once punched a young girl neighbour in the face.

Whilst some have described his family as devout Christians, others have painted
a different picture and blamed his home life for his alleged actions.

One 68-year-old Romford resident, who did not want to be named, said she was
informed by a young girl's brother that she had been attacked by him.

"He said Michael had spat in her face and then punched her. I looked out the
window and he was stood in his front garden in a rage. The police turned up but
I don't think he was ever arrested," she said.

The incident happened ten years ago and the neighbour and the family have since
moved.

She added: "He was very aggressive. I would see him in the street and say a
neighbourly 'hello', but he would just glare at you and suck his teeth."

She believed his mother worked in healthcare and spent a lot of time outside
London.

She continued: "The father was never around much, it seemed the kids were on
there own a lot.

"Michael would regularly have a large group of friends over and they would sit
in the garage with music blaring. They would also bring in lots of beer."

"The house was like How Clean Is Your House. I once caught a glimpse inside when
the door was open, there was food everywhere. They also had a problem with
rats."

The woman said Michael's mother and sisters were very pleasant but she knew them
only to say 'hello'.

Another neighbour Graham Silverton, 62, said: "What chance did he have with that
father. He would go into a rage with people for parking outside his house. It's
the father's bloody fault.

"The day they moved out I was so happy. The father was a complete nutcase."

15.06 A former friend of Michael Adebolajo has said he had no idea that the
football loving Spurs fan had become radicalised.

Window cleaner Graham Wells, 30, said that he knew Michael as 'Jay' and lived in
the flat below the one he shared with his sister in Romford.

He described him as a 'lovely bloke who always had a smile on his face'.

Mr Wells, who last saw him a year ago, said: "He was a lovely bloke. I am
surprised - cutting a soldiers head off in the middle of London is not really
on.

"I lived in the middle flat, that's how I got to know him. Before that I knew of
him from Marshalls Park school. I went to another school, but we used to go over
to the park to play football. He was a Tottenham fan and played in midfield.

"I never had any inclination that he was getting radicalised. He used to be,
like most men his age, smoking a bit of green. He never used to drink at all.

"He became a bit more within himself but every time we were together he was all
right. He lived above me, I think him and his sister.

"He was more of an acquaintance to me and he wasn't close enough to me to tell
me where he was born and things like that. He moved out a year ago."

Mr Wells, who claims he recognised Adebolajo from today's papers, said: "He
never expressed any opinion - no politics whatsoever.

"I think he might have been radicalised by the internet. He was the sort of
person you wouldn't want to get on the wrong side of because he was a big
fellow, and you basically would not want to get involved."

15.02 The son of Ingrid Loyau-Kennett has described how her intervention in
yesterday's attack was motivated by her "incredible maternal instinct".

She was in London celebrating her son Basil Baradaran's 23rd birthday when she
came across the horrifying street execution.

Basil, an animation graduate who lives close to the murder scene with sister
Pawony, 24, said: "Mum came up to visit for my birthday and we'd had a lovely
celebration.

"I was meeting her at the train station when she walked up and started telling
me had happened.

"My first thought was for her safety but I could see she was completely intact.
I couldn't believe what she was telling me.

"I don't know what was going through her mind or how she found the strength to
do what she did but I'm totally awestruck. I'm about as proud as a son could
be."

He added: "As amazed as I am by what she did, it's actually what I've come to
expect from her."

14.57 Dr Muhammad Abdul Bari, Secretary General of the Muslim Council of
Britain, has said: "No cause justifies this murder...These voices of extremism
have no place in our mosques."

14.48 The sisterof Michael Adebolajo - the man believed to be one of the
attackers - was led away from her home in Harold Hill by police earlier today
and the property was searched by detectives, it has been reported.

A woman purporting to be Blessing Adebolajo told the Romford Recorder : "They
have searched our home in Harold Hill; we didn't know he was going to do this."

Her friend told the local newspaper that the second man in the video of the
attack attended the Marshalls Park School with Adebolajo.

The friend said: "They were always together at school. They were as thick as
thieves. They may have even been related.

"Michael's family were ultra-religious, they may have been born-again
Christians. Michael got into Islam but no-one knew how much."

14.42 Mulgrave primary school have released a statement. Head teacher Dr David
Dixon said: "To have an incident of this nature take place so close to the
school was obviously very shocking for pupils, staff and parents.

"At the time, no one knew the exact nature of the incident and whether there was
the potential for further risk to children's safety. We therefore immediately
put our contingency measures in place - making sure that all children were safe
and helping them to stay calm, then making arrangements as soon as possible to
contact parents and ensure children could safely be taken home.

"Today our priority has been to focus on ensuring children have as calm and as
normal a day as possible. Parents have been very supportive of the school in
this, despite the obvious shock at having such an incident take place in their
community."

Chair of Governors Ian Taylor added, "Mulgrave is a successful and harmonious
school and the school's strong and supportive ethos has clearly helped in our
response to what's happened. It's clear from the comments of parents that our
staff were exemplary in their response to the incident, and I would like to pay
tribute to their calmness and professionalism."

14.31 One of our reporters at the scene, Edward Malnick, has seen plain clothes
detectives carrying out door to door enquiries and interviewing local residents.

Twitter: Hannah Snow - I've often seen MIchael Adeboloja handing out leaflets in
#Woolwich Feels strange. Grateful that people are calm here today. #EDL not
wanted

14.22 Friends who attended Marshall Parks School in Romford with Michael
Adebolajo have expressed their shock at news of his alleged actions.

They described him to Victoria Ward as a keen football player and a "peaceful",
"bright" student who was in the top sets for many subjects and "would never hurt
a fly".

14.03 The chairman of the Islamic Society at Greenwich University as said he did
not think that Michael Adebaloja, the man believed to be one of the attackers,
was radicalised during his time there.

The Islamic Society chairman, who gave his name as Muhammed, insisted theirs was
a peaceful group.

He said: "I do not know this guy and nor does anybody else I have spoken to from
the society.

"I cannot speak for the group then because I was not here but as far as now is
concerned we are a peaceful group.

"I would be very surprised if it was here (that he was radicalised).

On guest speakers, he said: "We would not have anybody here in my time with
extremist views."

Twitter: Peter Dominiczak - Nick Clegg describes #woolwich terrorists as having
a "perverse, corrupt ideology" on @lbc973

13.45 David Cameron has arrived at the Royal Artillery Barracks in Woolwich to
show his support.

13.28 Two women, believed to be sisters, have been handcuffed and led away from
a property in Greenwich, ITV News reports. Neighbours say the door of the flat
was smashed open by police officers wearing balaclavas and armed with machine
guns.They were heard shouting "get down on the floor". As well as the two women,
a teenage boy, a toddler and a baby were also taken away.

13.19 Labour leader Ed Miliband described yesterday's murder of a soldier in
Woolwich as "an act of complete cowardice".

Mr Miliband spoke to Prime Minister David Cameron today about the killing, after
cutting short a visit to Germany to return to London.

He said the opposition was offering its "full support" to the Government in its
response to the outrage

In a televised statement, Mr Miliband said: "This was an appalling and horrific
murder and all of my condolences are with the families and friends of the
victim, and indeed with our troops because they serve incredibly bravely all
around the world and they've seen one of their own murdered in an act of
complete cowardice.

"There are people who try to divide us with acts like this. They've tried it
before in London and they've failed and they will always fail.

"There will be people who try to use events like this to divide us and they will
fail too.

"They will fail because the British people are united across different faiths,
different religions, different backgrounds, in their abhorrence of this and in
values of decency and tolerance. That is the true character of the British
people and that's why this terror will lose and will fail.

"We are a united country, not a divided country and anyone who tries to divide
us will not succeed."

13.14 Colonel Richard Kemp, former Commander of the British Forces in
Afghanistan, has questioned whether the Government is providing the security
services with enough resources so that they can monitor "peripheral players".

They have feared an attack of this nature, carried out by a small number of
individuals who have found what weapons they can, for some time, he said.

13.10 Here is a video of David Cameron's statement on the attack.

12.58 Michael Adebolajo, said to be one of the suspects, was a student at
Greenwich University in the early 2000s.

He lived in two different student flats on the campus in the Avery Hill area of
Eltham - around three or four miles from where the murder took place.

This morning a security guard at the entrance to the campus said: "I don't think
the students here now will know him anyway because he left here in 2004."

12.46 Local Muslims have said that they are afraid to leave their homes. One,
Lucky Awale, witnessed the attack and said the suspect was "talking like a crazy
man, saying 'this Government needs to change', things like that".

"He wasn't scared, he was saying 'call the police'," she said.

She said the men could not be real Muslims but suggested they had their own
reasons for doing it.

"We live multiculturally, all kinds of people live here, all kinds of
religions," she added.

"For incidents like this to happen in the name of Muslims, it sends the wrong
impression to people like the EDL, thinking that Muslims would be like that."

Mrs Awale said her sympathy was with the dead man's family and she was scared
that such a violent attack could happen where she lived.

She continued: "We are scared as a community today. My sister lives near here
and she is scared to come out, she is scared of the EDL and everything.

"Our kids are big enough to go to school by themselves but today we had to take
them because we are scared.

"We are just asking for people not to take the wrong impression, the wrong idea,
and take revenge on Muslims."

12.38 The Metropolitan Police's Assistant Commissioner Simon Byrne has defended
the amount of time it took for armed police to arrive at the scene yesterday.

He said he could not discuss the details of the attack, but added: "Please
remain calm. London is at its best when we all come together and now is the time
to do that.

"One point I would like to address is around some of the speculation as to how
long it took the Met to respond yesterday as this incident started to unfold. We
first received a 999 call from the public at 14:20hrs stating a man was being
attacked, further 999 calls stated that the attackers were in possession of a
gun. We had officers at the scene within 9 minutes of receiving that first 999
call.

"Once that information about a gun or guns being present was known firearms
officers were assigned at 14:24hrs. Firearms officers were there and dealing
with the incident 10 minutes after they were assigned, 14 minutes after the
first call to the Met."

Twitter: Metropolitan Police - "London is at its best when we all come together
and now is the time to do that" #woolwich

12.34 Zak Dempster, 36, from the Royal Mechanical Engineers, Kent Regiment,
placed flowers at the Woolwich barracks today wearing a Help for Heroes t-
shirt.

He told Josie Ensor: "The victim was not from around here, he was from
Lincolnshire and i think he served in the Yorkshire Regiment. He was just
starting off his career god bless him, in his 20s.

"we've been advised not to go around wearing our Help for Heroes clothes or
fatigues but I'm here to show they won't stop us or knock us down."

Twitter: bbcpetercooke - Ex-soldier tells BBC TV #woolwich incident will make
military personnel reluctant to wear their uniforms off base.

12.26 Police were today searching the home of a woman thought to be related to
the one of the suspects.

Detectives and forensic officers were examining the top floor flat belonging to
Blessing Daniels, who it believed to be related of Michael Adebolajo who sources
have named as one of the killers.

Forensic teams were seen taking plastic boxes into the block where Ms Daniels
lives, a three story mid century red brick building containing 12 flats.

Other policemen sat in a white transit van outside the estate in Harold's Hill,
Romford.

Police have only officially confirmed one raid, which took place in Saxilby in
Lincolnshire last night, hundreds of miles from the scene of the attack.

12.25 At the Cobra meeting this morning it was agreed that issuing orders
against wearing military uniforms in public would not be the right response to
the outrage.

A No 10 source said last night's advice was an "understandable reaction" while
the circumstances of the attack were still unclear, but Mr Cameron and others at
the meeting agreed that "the best way to defeat terrorists was to continue with
normal life".

A Ministry of Defence spokesman said: "In light of yesterday's events and the
emerging situation, the military chain of command introduced a package of
immediate reactive security measures on a precautionary basis.

"Following a review of the situation this morning, a decision has been taken to
relax some of these temporary measures imposed yesterday, including advice to
members of the armed forces in London not to wear uniform outside of defence
establishments.

"The best way we can defeat terrorism is to carry on as normal, and that
includes our personnel wearing their uniform."

They MoD earlier denied that the guildance related to uniforms.

12.19 Military wives who laid flowers and tributes near the scene said that the
victim was a young soldier, possibly a trainee.

One of the women, in her 20s, who did not want to be named, said: "We are a
group of military wives. We live just outside the base. We are all just very
numb at the moment - shaken up and very shocked.

"It could have been any one of our husbands. He was a young guy who cared very
much about his job, like they all do.

"I think he was in training. The atmopshere is very quiet. No one really wants
to talk. No one knows what to say.

"We are very sad and feeling quite raw at the moment. A lot of our husbands left
the country this morning to go to Kenya.

"I don't believe he was due to leave. He was an attachment to our batallion I
think. He was in training to start off his life as a soldier.

"It could have been any person on the street but for it to be someone serving,
we all feel targeted. It's not nice."

12.01 Both suspects were known to MI5 and the police, Whitehall sources have
confirmed.

Twitter: Tim Ross - Boris Johnson says the #woolwich killers "will be brought
speedily to justice" and tells Londoners to go about their normal lives.

11.50 David Cameron has made a statement on the steps of Downing Street after
chairing an emergency Cobra meeting.

Describing the attack as "sickening" he said: "We have all seen images which are
deeply shocking. The people who did this were trying to divide us. They should
know something like this will only bring us together and make us stronger.

"Today our thoughts are with his family... we have lost a brave soldier."

He said that because investigations were ongoing there was a "limited" amount
that he could say.

"I can say that already a number of things are clear, this country will be
absolutely resolute in its stand against violent extremism and terrorism. We
will never give in to terror or terrorism in any of its forms...

"This was not just an attack on Britain and the British way of life, it was also
a betrayal of Islam," he said.

"We will defeat extremism by standing together," Mr Cameron added.

"The fault lies solely and purely with the sickening individuals who carried out
this appalling attack."

He also praised Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, who spoke exclusively to the Daily
Telegraph last night to tell us how she confronted the attackers.

Quoting the interview with Claire Duffin, the Prime Minister said: "When told by
an attacker that he wanted to start a war in London she replied "You're going to
lose, it is only you versus many" - she spoke for us all."

He acknowledged that it has been widely reported that the suspects were known to
the security services, and said the IPCC and the Intelligence and Security
Committee would be investigating.

He acknowledged that the public would have questions they needed answers to in
light of the attack.

11.30 Michael 'Mujaheed' Adebolajo, who sources have claimed is one of the
suspects, converted to Islam a decade and was always of "impeccable character",
radical cleric Anjem Choudary has said.

He said they both attended Mulgrave Primary school, which is located next to the
scene of the killing, adding: "I saw the pictures of him last night, his name is
Michael Adebolajo.

"I went to the same primary school as him in Woolwich, Mulgrave, and grew up in
the same area and he came to the local mosque - it was a peaceful community with
lots of Muslim people from Somalia and Pakistan. I didn't know him that well so
I can't say where his family was from."

Choudary led Islamist group Al-Muhajiroun, the banned forerunner to Islam 4 UK,
where Adebolajo often appeared alongside other radical protesters.

Mr Choudary continued: "He converted around 2003 to Islam, before I met him and
I knew him as his convert name 'Mujaheed' when he used to attend our
demonstrations and lectures. I last saw him in 2011, he was a very nice man with
impeccable character and nothing unusual about him."

He said: "What he did was unusual and it's not the kind of view that I propagate
and I do not condone the use of violence, but those views are out there. Some
members of the Muslim community struggle to express themselves and he is making
his voice heard in blood."

Choudary suggested that it was possible the attack was motivated by British
government foreign policy in the Muslim world, and that this may not have been
an isolated incident.

11.21 There have been raids at an address in Greenwich, it has been reported.
Neighbours have told the BBC that four people - two sisters in their 30s, an
older woman and a teenage boy, were all taken away in a police van and police
continue to search the address. The Metropolitan Police have refused to confirm
any searches which have taken place since a raid in Lincolnshire yesterday.

11.13 One of the suspects, who was filmed explaining the reasons behind the
attack as he held a blood soaked meat clever and knife, has been named by
sources as 28-year-old Michael Adebolajo.

Twitter: Metropolitan Police - 2/2 In line with the wishes of his family we will
not be releasing his identity at this stage. #woolwich

11.05 Scotland Yard have officially confirmed that the man was a serving
soldier, but will not be releasing his identity yet in line with his family's
wishes.

A spokesperson said: " We can confirm that the man who died in Woolwich
yesterday, 22 May is a serving soldier.

"We believe we know his identity but he has yet to be formally identified. His
next of kin have been informed. In line with the wishes of his family we will
not be releasing his identity at this stage.

"A post-mortem examination will take place later today, 23 May."

11.02 Shimon Peres, the Israeli president, has sent a letter of condolence to
the Queen over yesterday's events in Woolwich, calling it "an act of horrific
brutality".

The full text reads: "I was deeply saddened and shocked to hear of the terrible
attack yesterday in London. It was an act of horrific brutality.

"In my name and on behalf of the people of Israel, I wish to extend my sincere
condolences to the family of the victim and the people of Britain.

"Terrorism is a global threat and one the world must fact together. i know that
the people of Britain will stand strong in the face of this threat and the State
of Israel stands side by side with them.

"Please accept, your Majesty, my deepest sympathy."

10.53 Parents passed through the police cordon in Woolwich this morning to drop
their children off at Mulgrove Primary School, which is just metres from the
scene of the attack.

They told how the pupils heard the popping of gunshots before they were quickly
rushed away from windows by teachers and into the safety of the school hall.

Mother-of-two Chkondi Mhango, 34, said her 10 year-old daughter Collete was left
terrified she was going to die after she saw a man with a gun outside the
school.

She said he daughter "kept saying to me 'mummy, what if I had died? What if he
had come in and shot everybody in the school?'

"I think some of the kids who saw it were by the playground, and then they were
told to go inside by the teachers."

"It is horrifying to know that my daughter saw that from her school. It is not
an experience anyone should go through.

"She was really upset. She didn't want to go to sleep yesterday, she was too
scared she was going to have nightmares. She was terrified.

"I'm worried that she might be traumatised by what she saw, she is only 10
years-old and these things can stay with you for life.

"The teachers acted quickly, they sent a text to all the parents and we all
rushed down to pick our kids up."

10.44 A Lincolnshire Police Spokesperson has confirmed that the raid was carried
out by Scotland Yard.

They said: "Lincolnshire Police can confirm that the Metropolitan Police
executed a search warrant under PACE (Police and Criminal Evidence Act) at an
address in Lincolnshire.

"This is in connection with the ongoing investigation into the murder of a man
in Woolwich. The Metropolitan Police are not prepared to discuss the matter
further at this stage."

10.35 Lincolnshire Police have confirmed that they have raided an address in the
county are working with the Metropolitan Police in connection with the attacks,
the BBC have reported.

10.20 Former security minister Lord West has added his voice to calls to revive
the Government plans to extend internet and email monitoring powers to the
security services.

Lord West said that the Communications Data Bill would have allowed
investigators to get hold of the attackers' phone records to trace their
contacts.

Lord West told Sky News: "If we don't get a Communications Data Bill, then in
the future we won't be able to find that sort of information.

"That information is extremely important for our security services to be able to
pin down people, find out who they are linked with, who maybe radicalised them -
was it just themselves or is there someone radicalising more people?

"We need to know this information and I do think that the Communications Data
Bill which was due to come through and has been put on pause by the Deputy Prime
Minister, I think that's a terrible mistake."

The bill was dropped from the Queen's Speech following opposition from the
Liberal Democrats.

Twitter: Will Heaven - Poll: Should Parliament be recalled after the Woolwich
terror attack? http://t.co/DdhMy5AIUu

10.12 The Ministry of Defence have dispelled rumours that armed personall have
been told to cover their uniforms when they are in public. A spokesperson said:
"We have issued guidance for extra vigilance, but this does not extend to
uniforms."

Boris Johnson is understood to be on his way to Woolwich.

10.00 The emergency Cobra meeting chaired by David Cameron has come to an end.
Leaving the meeting, which lasted around one hour, Boris Johnson, the London
Mayor, appeared to indicate that yesterday's attack was being seen as a one-off
incident.

He said: "Everything I am hearing leads me to think that Londoners can go about
their business in the normal way and we are going to bring the killers to
justice."

09.56 Numerous religious leaders have spoke out against the attack and called
for calm in the community. Julie Siddiqi, of the Islamic Society of Britain,
told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme: "We can't allow the voices of Nick Griffin
and the far right to become louder than ours in the coming days. They will say
what we have to say and it gives us even more incentive to speak out and come
together and not allow people like that to divide us as a country.

"The people who did this act yesterday do not speak in my name, do not speak for
my community or the rest of the country. We have to come out with the strongest
condemnation, which is what I'm seeing this morning.

"All of the Muslim organisations have come out with the strongest possible terms
to say there is absolutely no excuse whatsoever, no justification for anything
like this.

"This is one of the most shocking things I have seen in recent years and to have
the people of Woolwich have to experience that so close to them, I just feel is
absolutely horrific."

09.45 Colonel Richard Kemp, former Commander of the British Forces in
Afghanistan, has told BBC News he believes this morning's Cobra meeting will try
to ascertain whether the attack was part of a wider extremist conspiracy.

He says: "I don't think it looks like that myself but I think they will want to
know that. And the second thing, I think, in that area is there will be a great
deal of concern that this form of attack now, which I think has been long feared
by the security services, could lead to copycats."

Twitter: RICHARD KEMP - All across the internet British soldiers & ex soldiers
have been changing their profiles to pictures of themselves in uniform.

09.43 The Woolwich killers are of Nigerian background, sources have confirmed,
but both are understood to be British citizens.

The men, who are being treated in separate hospitals while under arrest, are
most likely to have converted to a radical form of Islam, it is understood.

They are not thought to have links to terror groups based in Nigeria, such as
the jihadist militant organisation Boko Haram.

The Foreign Office warns of a high threat from terrorism in the West African
nation and raises the prospect of a risk of retaliatory attacks following the
French intervention in Mali.

Boko Haram is the most prominent terrorist threat in Nigeria. The group's
extremists aspire to establish Islamic law in Nigeria and carry out attacks
across states mainly in the north.

In 2011, Boko Haram claimed responsibility for the bombing of the UN building in
the Nigerian capital of Abuja, which killed 23 people in an act that showed the
group could target Western interests.

The group, whose name means "Western education is sacrilege", was blamed for
nearly 800 killings last year alone.

09.23 Speaking ahead of today's Cobra meeting Boris Johnson, the Mayor of
London, has called on Londoners to go about their normal business.

He said: "I'm sure this will have occurred to many people, and that is that it
is completely wrong to blame this killing on the religion of Islam, but it is
also equally wrong to try to draw any link between this murder and British
foreign policy or the actions of British forces who are risking their lives
abroad for the sake of freedom.

"The fault lies wholly and exclusively in the warped and deluded mindset of the
people who did it, and what we need now is, for the sake of the victim and the
sake of his family, for those killers to be brought to justice."

Mr Johnson also paid tribute to the "exemplary courage" of the people of
Woolwich.

"And today, I think I want to pay particular tribute, not just to the work of
the police and security services yesterday, but also, above all, to the people
of Woolwich, who showed such exemplary courage and bravery in a very difficult
situation indeed.

"I think it's very important that they take their cue, the people of London
should take their cue, from the behaviour of the people of Woolwich yesterday,
who showed such astonishing natural courage in dealing with an appalling event,
and who stood up to these killers, and I think that that's the spirit of London,
and that's what I would call upon people to do today: go about their lives in
the normal way."

09.20 David Cameron will be making a statement this morning after he chairs the
emergency Cobra meeting.

Twitter: David Cameron - I have been updated by the commissioner and will chair
Cobra shortly. I will make a statement on this sickening killing this morning

09.10 Former home secretary Lord Reid has condemned the "brutal, inhumane and
terrible murder of an innocent person" as he said the terrorist attack "won't
work".

While he said the threat from terrorists was continual, he insisted they would
not succeed in their bid to "impose their will on others" in the UK.

Lord Reid told BBC Radio Scotland's Good Morning Scotland the killing in
Woolwich was a "horrific and terrible attack", and added: "The bad news is that
becomes harder to prevent."

He said it was "a testament to the effectiveness of our security forces in this
country that they have prevented it for many, many years".

The former home secretary added: "We can get complacent - its easy to think
because there hasn't been a terrorist attack in the recent past that somehow the
threat has gone away. I have continually said it hasn't, it's there continually,
it's still substantial.

"The macabre manner of the killing and the propaganda associated with it was
meant to terrify and frighten people, because that is the nature of what
terrorists do - which is to try to impose their will on others, through fear and
indiscriminate violence.

"But it won't work. It never has in the past in this country and it won't in the
future."

08.40 Ingrid Loyau-Kennett has spoken to ITV's Daybreak about the moment she
risked her own life to confront the attackers yesterday. She said: "I wanted him
to concentrate on me and make sure he doesn't have a funny idea.

"He told me he (the victim) was a British soldier - he didn't look like a
British soldier to me, he wasn't in uniform. But I thought if another one passes
by, or is in the area..."

Asked if she was scared, she replied: "No - better me than a child."

"Unfortunately there were more and more mothers with children stopping around,
so it was even more important I was talking to him and ask him what he wanted."

She added: "People were more busy just trying to film and just stopping to
watch."

08.05 The Cobra meeting is due to begin in less than an hour. Prime Minister
David Cameron has returned from Paris to chair the meeting.

A large police cordon remain in place around the murder scene, with a forensic
police tent still standing in the road where the attack took place.

Well wishers have given bouquets of flowers to uniformed police officers at the
scene. Around a dozen bunches of flowers have been rested up against a wall
close by.

More flowers have been laid near the entrance to the barracks on the edge of the
town.

08.00 The family of the soldier have been informed of his death.

07.30 The far-right and the English Defence League are  using social media to
exploit the terrorist attack, writes Jake Wallis Simons .

Riot police last night contained an EDL demonstration in Woolwich. Elsewhere,
two men were arrested following separate attacks on mosques in Essex and Kent.

Twitter: John Amaechi OBE - My thoughts go out to the victim, families & brave
intervenors in the Woolwich tragedy. Let's hope we can be constructive in how we
respond.

07.18 The car which witnesses claim was used to run the soldier over before the
attackers began hacking at him with knives and a meat clever, was removed from
the scene last night.

The blue vehicle, which appeared to have collided with a road sign in John
Wilson Street, was covered with a red tarpaulin and taken away by a tow truck.

07.15 Senior Whitehall sources have confirmed to the BBC that the victim was a
member of the armed forces. Security has been increased at army barracks across
the capital.

07.00 A random attack has always been MI5's greatest fear, writes the
Telegraph's security editor Tom Whitehead. Dubbed the "Nike terrorists" after
the sports giant's slogan "Just Do It", lone attackers are a new generation of
of Islamic terrorists who are almost impossible to detect.

06.52 The Government's emergency response committee, Cobra, will reconvene
thismorning to discuss security measures in the aftermath of the attacks. The
meeting will be chaired by David Cameron who returned from Paris last night.

The two suspects have been arrested and are still under armed guard in hospital
after being shot by police at the scene.

06.46 It took around 20 minutes for armed police to arrive on the scene
yesterday. The attackers were seen pacing the streets with their blood soaked
weapons and discussing their motives with passers-by. Gordon Rayner sets out the
attack as it happened here .

06.40 The attack dominated the papers this morning, here is a round up of some
of the front pages.

06.20 Cub scout leader  Ingrid Loyau-Kennett showed "extraordinary bravery"
yesterday when she confronted the attackers and tried to get them to hand over
their weapons. Speaking exclusively to Claire Duffin last night she said: "I
asked him if he did it and he said yes and I said why? And he said because he
has killed Muslim people in Muslim countries, he said he was a British soldier
and I said really and he said 'I killed him because he killed Muslims and I am
fed up with people killing Muslims in Afghanistan they have nothing to do
there."

06.15 Good morning and welcome back to the live blog, please follow us here for
all the latest updates on the attack and its aftermath.

London machete attack: May 22nd's events, as they happened

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                              May 24, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tributes to Woolwich tributes to Woolwich terror attack soldier Tributes to
Woolwich tributes to Woolwich terror attack soldier

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1 words


PAGES 4&5

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 25, 2013 Saturday

Morocco strongly denounces 'terrorist' attacks in Niger

LENGTH: 231 words


Text of report by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news agency MAP

Rabat, 24 May 2013, MAP  Morocco has strongly condemned the two terrorist
attacks which targeted military barracks belonging to the army of Niger in the
town of Agadez and a uranium mine in the town of Arlit which resulted in the
killing and injury of several soldiers and civilians.

A statement by the Foreign Affairs and Cooperation Ministry said that the
Kingdom of Morocco had received with "great sorrow and regret the news of the
two terrorist attacks in the Republic of Niger which targeted military barracks
belonging to the army of Niger in the town of Agadez and a uranium mine in the
town of Arlit".

The statement added that while the Kingdom of Morocco "announces its strong
condemnation of these two criminal acts and expresses its sincerest condolences
to the victims' families and relatives, it reiterates its solidarity with Niger,
government and people, against all the security threats which target its
security and stability".

The statement says: Morocco reiterates its denunciation and condemnation of
terrorism in all its forms and calls for the intensification and coordination of
the efforts of the countries of the region and the international community for a
comprehensive, integrated and effective confrontation of this plague.

Source: MAP news agency, Rabat, in Arabic 2308 gmt 24 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 25, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Warsi praises faiths' united response after terrorist attack;
RELIGIOUS REACTION

BYLINE: Robert Winnett; Cristina Odone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 638 words


BRITAIN has avoided an "incendiary" reaction between different faiths following
the Woolwich terrorist attack, a senior Conservative minister said yesterday.

Baroness Warsi, the minister of faith and community, told The Daily Telegraph
that the country had shown a "united and resolute" response to the murder of
Drummer Lee Rigby.

The minister, who has attended this week's Whitehall meetings after the attack,
also warned against "knee jerk reactions".

She said she was "not sure" that granting more powers to the security services
would help prevent similar incidents.

The police were concerned in the aftermath of Wednesday's attack that it might
provoke community unrest as groups such as the English Defence League (EDL)
became involved. This could have caused a backlash from parts of the Muslim
community.

"Instead, we've come out united, resolute and unreserved in our response,"
Baroness Warsi said. "We Muslims are revolted by what we've seen."

She praised the response of the former British Army Capt Afzal Amin, who said
the murder was an attack on all of society. Baroness Warsi said he showed that
the assault was "in no way representative of Muslims".

"Look at how the Muslim Council of Britain responded," she said. "It's clear
they have moved in the right direction.

"There will always be extremists on both sides. The EDL will try to exploit the
situation. But the Muslim community is more confident than it was in 2005. They
won't allow themselves to become scapegoats."

Ministers have been debating whether to reconsider the introduction of the
so-called snooper's charter which would allow the authorities to monitor
internet-based communication.

However, Baroness Warsi said: "There is an ongoing investigation and we'll have
to wait until its completion.

"We don't know that any of the powers that would have been introduced with a new
snooper's charter could have prevented this.

"We cannot have knee-jerk reactions, nor can we introduce knee-jerk legislation.
This was a simple crime. All they had to purchase was a butcher's knife, a
cleaver  they didn't need to go trawling on the internet. I'm not sure
surveillance would have picked up anything."

The minister's intervention came after Nick Clegg attended an interfaith meeting
and quoted from the Koran.

At the meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister said: "Over the last few days London
has shown itself at its best: an unbreakable city once again refusing to bow to
hatred and violence.

"Of all the groups and faiths represented here today, I would like to pay
special tribute to London's Muslim community. An unspeakable act has been
conducted in their name. Yet while this has provoked feelings of frustration and
anger, it flies in the face of the peace and love that Islam teaches.

"Muslim organisations, mosques, imams and community leaders have responded with
a call for unity and calm. They have set an example for us all."

He added: "That we are meeting here like this - Londoners from different faiths
and backgrounds, interrupting their busy lives to come together at a moment's
notice - is a powerful symbol. It is a message of hope over fear  of community
over division. And it sends the strongest possible signal to those who seek to
sow hatred in our capital."

The Archbishop of Canterbury, the Most Rev Justin Welby, appealed for unity and
praised the response of faith groups following the murder. He told faith leaders
in Leicester that their prayers were with Drummer Rigby's family and colleagues
as well all those who witnessed the crime.

"I want to recognise the response of churches, mosques and other faith and civil
society groups as well as those of brave individuals who have done so much to
bring our communities together at this time," he said.

"This is very much a time for communities to come together."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Archbishop of Canterbury, the Most Rev Justin Welby, joins Sheikh
Ibrahim Mogra, of the Muslim Council of Britain, yesterday in Leicester to
condemn the murder
PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Dinnington Guardian

                             May 25, 2013 Saturday

WOOLWICH TERROR ATTACK: Police warning over online comments

BYLINE: Hayley Gallimore

LENGTH: 162  words


Lincolnshire Police have issued a warning for people to be careful when posting
online comments in relation to the Woolwich police investigation.

Officers raided a house on Hotchkin Avenue in Saxilby, near Gainsborough,
yesterday morning in connection with the suspected terrorist killing of soldier
Lee Rigby on Wednesday.

It is thought that Muslim convert Michael Adebolajo - one of the suspects in the
attack - was registered as living at the address in 2003.

"We would urge people to consider the very real impact of their online comments
in relation to this matter," said a Lincolnshire Police spokesman.

"We have received a number of reports from local members of the public about
tweets and Facebook comments that could potentially incite racial hatred and
violence."

"These are currently being investigated."

"If such communications are reported to us and they do breach the law, those
messages may be monitored, captured and robust police action will be
considered."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NDIG


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Dinnington Guardian

                             May 25, 2013 Saturday

WOOLWICH TERROR ATTACK: Local inspector reassures Saxilby community in video
statement

BYLINE: Hayley Gallimore

LENGTH: 184  words


Police Insp Simon Outen have made a video statement on the continued police
presence in Saxilby.

It follows the search of a house in Hotchkin Avenue on Thursday 23rd May in
connection with the suspected terrorist killing of soldier Lee Rigby on
Wednesday.

It is thought that Muslim convert Michael Adebolajo - one of the suspects in the
attack - was registered as living at the address in 2003.

Insp Outen reassured residents that the increased police presence would remain
for as long as necessary' dependent on the needs of the community.

But he stressed that there was no threat whatsoever' to local residents.

He also warned people to be careful what they post on social media.

One Lincoln man has already been charged over allegedly posting offensive
Facebook comments.

Benjamin Flatters, 22, of no fixed abode appeared at Lincoln Magistrates' Court
today (Saturday 25th May 2013) on a charge of posting malicious communications.

o See Insp Outen's video statement on the Gainsborough NPT Facebook page
{https://www.facebook.com/gainsboroughpolice/posts/564384740280407|
www.facebook.com/gainsboroughpolice}

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NDIG


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       May 25, 2013 Saturday 8:46 AM GMT

MI6 chief's chilling warning: We can't stop terror attacks

BYLINE: John Twomey, David Pilditch

LENGTH: 626 words


THE security forces are virtually powerless to stop atrocities like the Woolwich
murder, a former MI6 chief admitted.

Amid growing fears of copycat attacks and rising community tensions, Richard
Barrett said preventing such terror attacks was "incredibly hard".

As if to illustrate his point, two RAF fighter jets had to be scrambled
yesterday to escort a Pakistan airliner to Stansted airport, Essex, after two
passengers tried to get into the cockpit. The plane, which had been bound for
Manchester, landed safely and two men were arrested.

In Warwickshire, police shut the M6 in both directions near Coventry while a
"suspicious vehicle" was investigated.

And London Bridge railway station was closed as police were alerted to a man
with an axe. Passengers were allowed back in and services resumed after about
half an hour.

David Cameron was warned of the danger of follow-up attacks at a meeting of
Cobra, the Government's emergency committee, as military bases were put on high
alert.

Killers Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale were both known to MI5 but were
classed as fringe figures who did not merit full scale monitoring.

MI5 chiefs are facing tough questions about how much was known about the two men
and when they were last "on the radar". But Mr Barrett, ex-head of
counter-terrorism at MI6, believes there was little MI5 could have done to
prevent the murder of Drummer Lee Rigby.

"I think it is incredibly hard to stop," he said. "When does a person who
expresses radical views, who joins a radical group, flip over to be a violent
extremist? To find the signals, the red flags as it were, I think is enormously
hard.

"I should imagine that these two people themselves probably didn't have any
intention to commit a crime like this until relatively recently before they did
it."

Mr Barrett added: "They must have had some indication that these guys were a
problem in order to note their names. But it is one thing to note their names,
it is quite another thing to take invasive action to track their movements."

Lord Blair, former Metropolitan Police Commissioner, said there were "thousands
and thousands of people who listen to Islamic extremists".

MI5 and MI6 must go after the most dangerous suspects who travel abroad for
terrorist training, he said. "The Security Service (MI5) has limited resources.
They must prioritise people who are most likely to move from being interested in
violent extremism to carrying it out.

"Even if you have the resources to do it, you have to have a very high level of
suspicion to put surveillance on them.

"What are you monitoring? Lots of people have very odd views."

Ministers were quick to defend MI5 from charges of failing to stop the murder of
Drummer Rigby, who was pictured by CCTV cameras in his Help for Heroes
sweatshirt at a takeaway near Woolwich barracks two days before the attack.

Brave Lee Rigby was butchered to death on the streets of Woolwich this week

Communities Secretary Eric Pickles said: "Peers and MPs will do a thorough
investigation in terms of what the security forces knew but I've seen experts on
security explaining how difficult it is in a free society to be able to control
everyone."

There are believed to be at least 3,000 people on MI5's database of extremist
suspects.

Mr Barrett said the Woolwich killers may not have had the wider links either
here or abroad to warrant further attention from MI5.

Adebolajo, 28, and Adebowale, 22, both recent Muslim converts, are under arrest
at separate London hospitals. Two women held on Thursday on suspicion of
conspiracy were released yesterday. One man remains in custody.

A post mortem examination has failed to establish whether Drummer Rigby was
killed by the car driven at him before he was attacked with knives and a meat
cleaver.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 25, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WE CAN'T STOP TERROR ATTACKS;
New scare as our fighter jets force Pakistani plane to land ; MI6 chief's
chilling warning

BYLINE: John Twomey, David Pilditch ; Cyril Dixon

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 615 words


THE security forces are virtually powerless to stop atrocities like the Woolwich
murder, a former MI6 chief admitted.

Amid growing fears of copycat attacks and rising community tensions, Richard
Barrett said preventing such terror attacks was "incredibly hard".

As if to illustrate his point, two RAF fighter jets had to be scrambled
yesterday to escort a Pakistan airliner to Stansted airport, Essex, after two
passengers tried to get into the cockpit. The plane, which had been bound for
Manchester, landed safely and two men were arrested.

In Warwickshire, police shut the M6 in both directions near Coventry while a
"suspicious vehicle" was investigated.

And London Bridge railway station was closed as police were alerted to a man
with an axe. Passengers were allowed back in and services resumed after about
half an hour. David Cameron was warned of the danger of follow-up attacks at a
meeting of Cobra, the Government's emergency committee, as military bases were
put on high alert. Killers Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale were both
known to MI5 but were classed as fringe figures who did not merit fullscale
monitoring. MI5 chiefs are facing tough questions about how much was known about
the two men and when they were last "on the radar".

But Mr Barrett, ex-head of counter-terrorism at MI6, believes there was little
MI5 could have done to prevent the murder of Drummer Lee Rigby. "I think it is
incredibly hard to stop," he said.

"When does a person who expresses radical views, who joins a radical group, flip
over to be a violent extremist? To find the signals, the red flags as it were, I
think is enormously hard. "I should imagine that these two people themselves
probably didn't have any intention to commit a crime like this until relatively
recently before they did it." Mr Barrett added: "They must have had some
indication that these guys were a problem in order to note their names. But it
is one thing to note their names, it is quite another thing to take invasive
action to track their movements." Lord Blair, former Metropolitan Police
Commissioner, said there were "thousands and thousands of people who listen to
Islamic extremists". MI5 and MI6 must go after the most dangerous suspects who
travel abroad for terrorist training, he said. "The Security Service (MI5) has
limited resources.

They must prioritise people who are most likely to move from being interested in
violent extremism to carrying it out. "Even if you have the resources to do it,
you have to have a very high level of suspicion to put surveillance on them.
"What are you monitoring? Lots of people have very odd views." Ministers were
quick to defend MI5 from charges of failing to stop the murder of Drummer Rigby,
who was pictured by CCTV cameras in his Help for Heroes sweatshirt at a takeaway
near Woolwich barracks two days before the attack. Communities Secretary Eric
Pickles said: "Peers and MPs will do a thorough investigation in terms of what
the security forces knew but I've seen experts on security explaining how
difficult it is in a free society to be able to control everyone." There are
believed to be at least 3,000 people on MI5's database of extremist suspects. Mr
Barrett said the Woolwich killers may not have had the wider links either here
or abroad to warrant further attention from MI5. Adebolajo, 28, and Adebowale,
22, both recent Muslim converts, are under arrest at separate London hospitals.
Two women held on Thursday on suspicion of conspiracy were released yesterday.

One man remains in custody. A post mortem examination has failed to establish
whether Drummer Rigby was killed by the car driven at him before he was attacked
with knives and a meat cleaver

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 25, 2013 Saturday 12:35 PM GMT

Woolwich terror attack: Suspect Michael Adebowale saw friend 'literally sliced
to pieces' in 2008;
Reports suggest mother tried to stop Adebowale's radicalisation by taking him to
local imam

BYLINE: James Legge

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 397 words


Michael Adebowale, one of the suspects in the Woolwich murder of Drummer Lee
Rigby, saw a friend "literally sliced to pieces" when they were both teenagers.

Lee James, a bare-knuckle fighter who was suffering from a drug-induced
psychotic episode, murdered 18-year-old Faridon Alizada in 2008 and also stabbed
Adebowale, then 16.

The Old Bailey heard that the youths were members of the "Woolwich Boys" gang.

The judge said that the dead man had been literally cut to pieces in an early
morning attack at a flat in Erith, southeast London.

Reports today also say Adebowale's mother sought help from a local mosque
because she feared her son was going off the rails after he dropped out of
university nine months ago.

Juliet Obasuyi, a Christian probation officer, approached an older neighbour for
advice

The neighbour, who did not wish to be named, told The Times that Ms Obasuyi took
her son to an imam for help.

Both Adebowale, now 22, and his 28-year-old co-suspect Michael Adebolajo appear
to have converted to Islam around the time they left college.

Adebolajo was said to have been popular at his school in Romford, Essex, but
Adebowale was bullied at Kidbrooke High School in Greenwich.

A friend who has known him since he was 11 told The Times: "He was one of us...
just normal, nothing completely evil about him at all. He went around preaching
Islam, preaching peace though. I must say the whole reform into Islam was quite
a sudden change. It was a big shock. But it suited him. It looked like he was
doing well."

Simone Edwards, 22, a close friend of Adebowale's, said that he converted after
being bullied at school. She said: "He was kind of having problems with a couple
of gangs. I think he was just looking for somewhere to belong. When he found
Islam he finally found a piece of family."

One of Adebowale's neighbours, Magdalene Edwards, told told Channel 4 News: "He
was a lovely boy. Very gentle natured, very respectful to elderly people.

"He was angry at a lot of things like a lot of young people are. About a year
ago is when I saw him with this whole Muslim dress.

"I said to him are you a Muslim. And he said yes, he's gone that way now. I said
just be careful, I'm aware that there are some that ride on the coat tales of
Islam and they're really not serving their cause."

Both suspects are still in hospital under guard, and are understood to be in no
state to be charged.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 25, 2013 Saturday 3:43 PM GMT

Billy Joel: Depression caused by 9/11, not alcohol, caused my car accidents;
Billy Joel has blamed three highly-publicised car accidents on depression
brought on by the Sept 11 terror attacks on his home city of New York, rather
than on his well-known problems with alcohol.

BYLINE: By Philip Sherwell New York

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 465 words


The pop star went into rehab for his drinking habit in 2005 but in a
wide-ranging interview insisted that the spate of accidents in two preceding
years was not caused by his heavy consumption of vodka, his alcohol of choice.

"I was kind of in a mental fog, and it had nothing to do with the booze," he
told The New York Times .

"My mind wasn't right. I wasn't focused. I went into a deep, deep depression
after 9/11.

"9/11 just knocked the wind out of me, and I don't know even now if I've
recovered from it. It really, really hurt that man could do that to man.

"And then there was a break-up with somebody, and it took me a while to get me
back on my feet again ... I used booze as medication."

Joel said that he still drinks "a glass of wine once in a while" and does not
"subscribe to" the 12-step anti-addiction programme of Alcoholics Anonymous.

The star whose hits include "Uptown Girl", "Piano Man" and "Only the Good Die
Young" also revealed why he has not written a pop song in 20 years.

"I got tired of it," he said. "I got bored with it. I wanted to write something
other than the three-minute pop tune."

He rejected comments by Elton John, a frequent touring partner, that he gave up
writing new music "out of fear or laziness" and had not taken rehab seriously.

But he insisted that he was not offended by the remarks.

"I think his heart is in the right place. He's kind of like a mom," he said.

When his interviewer observed that John "kind of looks like a mom", Joel agreed,
saying: "Yeah, he's got mom hair."

He continued: "He doesn't know anything about my private life. He's a very
friendly, charming man, a nice fun guy, but we really never spent much time
personally together ... I'd work with him again, sure."

The diminutive musician, 63, has a penchant for younger taller beauties. He was
once married to supermodel Christie Brinkley, about whom he wrote "Uptown Girl",
and later dated Elle Macpherson.

He pulled out of a deal to publish his nearly-finished memoirs two years ago,
despite a reported $3 million advance, when he learned the marketing campaign
was to be "Divorce, Depression and Drinking".

His version of his life would not have been that salacious, he said.

"They wanted more sex, drugs and rock-and-roll, and there's not that much in my
life," he said.

Joel has toured extensively over the last two decades, won a Tony award for a
musical about his career and released a collection of classical music. But he
said that he said that he did not miss the life of a pop star.

He said that he has "no bitterness" about two deals early in his career that
cost him an estimated $30 million and indicated that he had no immediate plans
to deliver "four or five regular albums" owed to Columbia Records.

"It's indentured servitude when you sign with a record company," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 25, 2013 Saturday 1:49 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: Police let women risk their lives during wait for armed back
up;
The police response to the Woolwich terrorist attack has come in for further
criticism after it emerged that uniformed officers allowed members of the public
to intervene while they waited for armed back up.

BYLINE: By Martin Evans and Christopher Hope

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 358 words


Unarmed officers were on the scene of the murder within nine minutes of the
first onlookers dialling 999.

But, apparently fearing that the terrorists could be luring them into a trap,
they hung back and waited five minutes for armed units to arrive.

During this period, three women - Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, 48, Amanda Donnelly, 44,
and her daughter Gemini, 20 - approached the armed attackers to remonstrate with
them or try to offer some comfort to the victim.

Questions were being asked as to why the police officers allowed members of the
public to put their lives at risk.

Sources within the Met said officers were told to stay back amid concerns that
the attack was part of a deliberate ploy to kill police officers by detonating
booby traps.

However, it remained unclear whether the uniformed officers who were first on
the scene were acting on orders from their commanders, or whether they were
following their training.

It is understood that while it took almost a quarter of an hour for armed
officers to arrive, senior officers were monitoring events via a CCTV camera
mounted on a traffic island close by.

Keith Vaz MP, the chairman of the House of Commons home affairs select
committee, said: "I am most surprised to learn that police officers did not
intervene while those brave and courageous women were speaking to the
assailants." He said he would be asking for a "full explanation why this was the
case".

Mr Vaz, who is in charge of monitoring the work of the police on behalf of
Parliament, said it was similar to the London riots in 2011 when the police were
heavily criticised for standing back while looters went into shops.

He raised the prospect of rules being rewritten to allow unarmed police officers
to intervene in life and death situations, rather than require them to stand
back.

He added: "If there are guidelines preventing them from intervening then they
need to be put to one side during life and death situations."

A spokesman for Scotland Yard said such matters were likely to form part of the
Independent Police Complaints Commission investigation which was automatically
triggered after police discharged weapons at the scene.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 25, 2013 Saturday 12:20 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: Somali terrorists warn Britain: 'Your chickens are coming home
to roost';
Britain was warned to expect further terrorist outrages as an Islamist group in
Somalia said the chickens were "coming home to roost".

BYLINE: By Zoe Flood Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 472 words


Al Shabaab, which is thought to have links with one of the suspected Woolwich
terrorists, launched a tirade on Twitter accusing Britain of carrying out
countless abuses against innocent Muslims.

In one message posted on its official Twitter account, an al-Shabaab spokesman
described the murder of Drummer Lee Rigby as the "death of the wretched Kafir"
and said it was "insignificant compared to the deaths of hundreds of innocent
Muslims at the hands of British soldiers".

Referring to the Boston bombing, another posting warned: "Where next? You just
have to grin and bear it, it's inevitable. A case of the chickens coming home to
roost."

Speculation was mounting that the postings, peppered with English phrases, were
being written by a Briton.

Seizing on comments by David Cameron that the attack was a "betrayal of Islam",
al-Shabaab said that in fact it was a "portrayal of Islam".

The tirade went on: "What Cameron describes as a 'sickening' attack is what
innocent Muslim woman and children are subjected to every day by British troops.
Don't expect Muslims to simply turn the other cheek.

"The British Army has a woeful record of abuses against unarmed Muslims across
the globe. It's an eye for an eye, so you can lump it."

One of the suspects in the attack, Michael Adebolajo, is thought to have tried
to travel to Somalia, possibly to join al-Shabaab, security sources claim.

The shadowy militants who control large areas of the country have welcomed
foreigners to their ranks.

Estimates of the number of foreign fighters in al-Shabaab vary widely, but a
report released last year by the Royal United Services Institute suggested that
about 50 Britons were believed to be fighting in Somalia.

Many are likely to be of Somali origin, but Muslim converts from some Western
nations are believed to have links with al-Shabaab.

Last year intelligence experts warned that Britons were being recruited to fight
for the militant group and that Somalia was becoming a vital training ground for
British jihadis. Kenyan police believe Jermaine Grant, on trial in Mombasa on
charges of possessing explosives, has links to the militants.

His accomplice Samantha Lewthwaite is on the run, with some reports suggesting
that she has crossed into Somalia.

Lewthwaite, who faces the same charges as Grant, is the widow of the 7/7 King's
Cross bomber Germaine Lindsay.

"The ideology of the Shabaab is a threat to the world," Hassan Sheikh Mohamud,
the president of Somalia, told The Telegraph earlier this month.

"It has been proven there has been a link between Shabaab and elements in the UK
... I will not rule out that there is element with the Shabaab ideology in the
UK and once that element is there in the UK the risk and the threat is there."

Al-Qaeda chief Ayman al-Zawahiri formally welcomed al-Shabaab to the terror
network's ranks last year.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Worksop Guardian

                             May 25, 2013 Saturday

WOOLWICH TERROR ATTACK: Police warning over online comments

BYLINE: Hayley Gallimore

LENGTH: 162  words


Lincolnshire Police have issued a warning for people to be careful when posting
online comments in relation to the Woolwich police investigation.

Officers raided a house on Hotchkin Avenue in Saxilby, near Gainsborough,
yesterday morning in connection with the suspected terrorist killing of soldier
Lee Rigby on Wednesday.

It is thought that Muslim convert Michael Adebolajo - one of the suspects in the
attack - was registered as living at the address in 2003.

"We would urge people to consider the very real impact of their online comments
in relation to this matter," said a Lincolnshire Police spokesman.

"We have received a number of reports from local members of the public about
tweets and Facebook comments that could potentially incite racial hatred and
violence."

"These are currently being investigated."

"If such communications are reported to us and they do breach the law, those
messages may be monitored, captured and robust police action will be
considered."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NWGU


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Worksop Guardian

                             May 25, 2013 Saturday

WOOLWICH TERROR ATTACK: Local inspector reassures Saxilby community in video
statement

BYLINE: Hayley Gallimore

LENGTH: 184  words


Police Insp Simon Outen have made a video statement on the continued police
presence in Saxilby.

It follows the search of a house in Hotchkin Avenue on Thursday 23rd May in
connection with the suspected terrorist killing of soldier Lee Rigby on
Wednesday.

It is thought that Muslim convert Michael Adebolajo - one of the suspects in the
attack - was registered as living at the address in 2003.

Insp Outen reassured residents that the increased police presence would remain
for as long as necessary' dependent on the needs of the community.

But he stressed that there was no threat whatsoever' to local residents.

He also warned people to be careful what they post on social media.

One Lincoln man has already been charged over allegedly posting offensive
Facebook comments.

Benjamin Flatters, 22, of no fixed abode appeared at Lincoln Magistrates' Court
today (Saturday 25th May 2013) on a charge of posting malicious communications.

o See Insp Outen's video statement on the Gainsborough NPT Facebook page
{https://www.facebook.com/gainsboroughpolice/posts/564384740280407|
www.facebook.com/gainsboroughpolice}

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NWGU


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 26, 2013 Sunday

Iran condemns "terrorist attacks" in Niger

LENGTH: 102 words


Iran's Foreign Ministry Spokesman Seyyed Abbas Araqchi has condemned the recent
"terrorist attacks" in Niger, which left about 20 people dead, Iranian Students
News Agency (ISNA) reported on 26 May.

"There is no place in Islam for suicide and terrorist attacks which target
innocent people. These [attacks] are plots designed by the enemies of Islam and
the Muslim nation of Niger," ISNA quoted Araqchi as saying in connection with
the 23 May attacks on a Nigerien army facility in Agadez and a uranium mining
facility, operated by a French company, in Arlit.

Source: ISNA website, Tehran, in Persian 0421gmt 26 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              May 26, 2013 Sunday

France opens anti-terror probe into attack on soldier

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 326 words


PARIS- French prosecutors opened an anti-terrorist investigation into the attack
on a soldier who was stabbed in the neck in western Paris on Saturday, local
channel BFMTV reported.

The 23-year-old soldier from the 4th Regiment of Gap Chasseurs was patrolling
the business district of La Defense with two other servicemen as part of
Vigipirate anti-terrorist plan when a man stabbed him in the neck at 5:55 p.m.
local time (1555 GMT) near the entrance to the RER station of La Defense, the
BFMTV said.

The crime was filmed by surveillance cameras but the perpetrator escaped from
the scene. Police described the attacker as a 1.9-meter-tall man wearing a
jersey and black trousers.

The soldier was sent to a nearby hospital for treatment. His life was not in
danger, according to the Interior Ministry.

French Defence Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said the stabbed soldier was targeted
because he was in the army.

"They tried to kill him because he is a soldier," he told reporters, stressing
that France will continue an "implacable" fight against terrorism.

In the Ethiopian capital of Addis Ababa, French President Francois Hollande said
the authorities are exploring all options to answer questions on the daytime
assault.

"We still don't know the exact circumstances of the attack or the identity of
the attacker, but we are exploring all options," he said.

The attack came days after a British soldier was killed on a London street by
two men who said they were revenging for violence against Muslims.

"At this stage no link was established with the murder of the British soldier.
But, we must study all the assumptions," Hollande said, urging high vigilance to
face any eventual attack.

Paris has heightened the terror alert to red level after its military operation
in Mali ignited menaces against French interests from al-Qaida's North African
wing (AQIM).

A major terrorist bomb explosion hit the Paris subway in 1995, killing eight
people and injuring 200 others.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Dinnington Guardian

                              May 26, 2013 Sunday

WOOLWICH TERROR ATTACK: Lincoln man remanded in custody over Facebook comments

BYLINE: Hayley Gallimore

LENGTH: 210  words


A man charged with malicious communications over comments he made on Facebook
about the Woolwich terror attack investigations has been remanded in custody.

Benjamin Flatters, 22, of no fixed abode, Lincoln, appeared before Lincoln
magistrates yesterday morning (Saturday 25th May 2013).

He was remanded in custody to appear before Skegness Magistrates on Wednesday
29th May 2013.

Met Police searched a house in Hotchkin Avenue, Saxilby, near Gainsborough, on
Thursday 23rd May.

It is thought that terror suspect and Muslim convert Michael Adebolajo lived
there around 2003.

Adebolajo remains under arrest in hospital after he was shot by police on
Wednesday.

He, along with Michael Adebowale, is suspected of murdering soldier Lee Rigby in
a terror attack near Woolwich Barracks the same day.

Lincolnshire Police has warned people to be careful what they post on social
media websites.

"We have received a number of reports from local members of the public about
tweets and Facebook comments that could potentially incite racial hatred and
violence," said a spokesman.

"These are currently being investigated. If such communications are reported to
us and they do breach the law, those messages may be monitored, captured and
robust police action will be considered."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NDIG


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        May 26, 2013 Sunday 2:14 AM GMT

France copycat attack sparks fresh terror fear

LENGTH: 71 words


A SOLDIER in Paris has had his throat cut in an attack with chilling echoes of
that on Lee Rigby.

A police source said: "The soldier was stabbed repeatedly, most notably in the
throat. The attacker ran away and the military are still looking for him."

He added that the knifeman is "bearded, of North African origin and wearing a
light-coloured hijab".

The victim was recovering last night. His life is not thought to be in danger.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 26, 2013 Sunday 7:57 PM GMT

French investigate Woolwich 'copy-cat' attack on terrorism patrol soldier in
Paris;
The soldier was wounded in the incident which happened as he patrolled the
French capital's La Defense business district with two comrades

BYLINE: John Lichfield

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 424 words


An attack on a French soldier in a busy underground railway station near Paris
on Saturday might have been a spur-of-the-moment copy of London's Woolwich
killing, French investigators believe.#

France's terrorism investigation unit was called in to lead the hunt for a man
of North African appearance who stabbed in the neck a soldier on anti-terrorist
patrol amid thousands of Saturday shoppers.

The soldier was cut, possibly by a box-cutter, close to his carotid artery. He
bled profusely but was not seriously injured. His wound needed only one stitch.


Officially, the French government is making no direct link with the killing of a
British soldier by two Islamist radicals on a street in Woolwich last Wednesday.
Unofficially, investigators are said to believe it was almost certainly a
copy-cat attack, possibly carried out on the spur of the moment.

The French defence minister, Jean-Yves Le Drian,  who visited the injured man in
hospital, said that it was clear that "someone wanted to kill him because he was
a soldier". The interior minister, Manuel Valls, said France would continue to
wage an "implacable fight against terrorism".

Cedric Cordier, 23, of the 4th cavalry regiment, was patrolling in battle-dress
with a policeman and another soldier in the underground concourse of the RER
(regional Metro) station at La Défense just west of Paris just before 6pm on
Saturday. Anti-terrorist patrols of this kind have become a common sight in
France since a  series of murderous bomb attacks on the Paris Metro in the
mid-1990s.

The attacker came up behind the soldier, who was the last man in the patrol, and
slashed or stabbed his neck with a blade.

The attacker, described as a muscular man in his earlier thirties and of North
African appearance, fled into the adjoining shopping centre before the other
members of the patrol could react. The area bristled with security cameras whose
footage is being studied.

The so-called "Vigipirate" armed military patrols on busy streets and in metro
and railways stations are supposed to deter terrorist attacks. They have often
been criticised as more decorative than useful. If they become, themselves, an
easy target for low-level terrorism, the French government may have to abandon
them or revert to police-only patrols.

President François Hollande, in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia,  for a conference on
African unity, said: "We will examine all possibilities. I see no reason at this
stage to make a link with what happened in London. But we must look into all
possibilities, without exception."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 26, 2013 Sunday 4:42 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: Terror suspect Michael Adebolajo was arrested in Kenya on
suspicion of being at centre of al-Qa'ida-inspired plot;
IoS exclusive: Terror suspect was among group arrested in Kenya en route to
Somalia two years ago. Family say torture there 'pushed him over the edge'

BYLINE: Mike Glover, Brian Brady, Jonathan Owen, Paul Cahalan, Paul Bignell

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1298 words


Evidence emerged last night that one of the suspects involved in the killing of
the British soldier Lee Rigby was well known to anti-terror police and the
security services for at least three years before the brutal Woolwich attack.
Michael Adebolajo was arrested in Kenya under suspicion of being at the centre
of an al-Qa'ida-inspired plot in 2010, The Independent on Sunday can reveal.

He was one of seven men arrested by Kenyan police after landing on an island off
the Kenyan coast in November 2010. Local press reports of the arrests referred
to Mr Adebolajo as a "Nigerian with a British passport" who was "suspected of
masterminding the racket". Police claimed the men were travelling to Somalia to
join the ranks of the al-Shabaab terrorist group. His family claimed he was held
in detention and tortured before being deported back to Britain without charge.

After the incident, members of his family said he was "pestered" by MI5 agents
pressuring him to become an informant for them and infiltrate radical Islamic
extremist groups. Relatives said other family members were also harassed and
questioned by the UK authorities. In an exclusive interview with The IoS, Mr
Adebolajo's brother-in law claimed constant demands to get him to spy on Muslim
clerics might have pushed him over the edge.

The allegation that MI5 knew of Mr Adebolajo's radical views for so long has
increased the pressure on the intelligence services over their failure to
recognise the scale of the threat he posed, amid the fall-out from the shocking
killing of Drummer Rigby last Wednesday.

A friend of Mr Adebolajo has told the BBC that MI5 had attempted to recruit the
suspected killer six months ago. It was also reported last night that Michael
Adebowale, who was arrested alongside Mr Adebolajo following the soldier's
killing, had been detained by police two months ago.

Sir Malcolm Rifkind, who leads the body that oversees the work of the
intelligence services, said the organisations had "serious questions to answer".
The MI5 chief, Andrew Parker, will provide a written report on the incident this
week, before he is called before the Intelligence and Security Committee (ISC).

But Sir Malcolm, who is chairman of the ISC, pledged that the committee would
also use new powers to force intelligence agencies to hand over all confidential
documents relating to the case.

Abu Zuybyr, who is married to Mr Adebolajo's sister, Christiana, said last night
that his brother-in-law had recently been "elated" following the birth of his
child. But added: "Then things became a little strange."

Speaking from a café in the shadow of a mosque in an east Lancashire town, just
before midday prayers, Mr Zuybyr said: "Why did he suddenly flip?" As family
members struggled for explanations for Mr Adebolajo's actions, they speculated
that pressure from the security services to turn informer may have pushed him to
act.

"That is what the [Mr Adebolajo's] family is saying; that the secret service
pushed him over the edge," his brother-in-law claimed.

They insisted that Mr Adebolajo's character changed markedly in 2010, after a
visit to Kenya - where, they say, he had gone to study Arabic and Islam with
imams in mosques in Nairobi.

But an investigation by The IoS has revealed that Mr Adebolajo - officially
described as "Mr Michael Olemindis Ndemolajo" - was one of seven youths arrested
by Kenyan police on suspicion of trying to join the ranks of the al-Shabaab
terrorist group in Somalia.

The young men had gone on a speedboat from Lamu island to Kizingitini, Pate
island, where they were arrested by police who were waiting for them after a tip
off. The group he was travelling with, which included two secondary-school boys,
had been radicalised during weekly visits to a mosque in Mombasa, according to
police sources.

They were thrown in jail and "the suspect from Nigeria" accused police of
torturing him, according to local reports.

"We are being tortured by the police and we haven't eaten for two days now," he
was quoted as saying. "We have been denied the right to talk to our family
members and lawyer. We are being treated as criminals and we are innocent."

Kenyan media stated: "The Nigerian, Mr Michael Olemindis Ndemolajo, is said to
have travelled from the UK to join the group."

He was kept in jail for several days before being deported back to Britain,
"after it was established that his travelling documents were genuine and that he
lacked a criminal record", according to The Nation newspaper. Mr Adebolajo's
family said he had been told he would be hanged or beheaded, but after he had
appeared in court he was freed to return to Britain. Relatives said they
believed the release came after they had alerted local MPs and the Foreign
Office. The decision has raised questions over official involvement in Mr
Adebolajo's release - and the true extent of his connections with the
intelligence services since he returned home to the UK.

Mr Zuybyr claimed his brother-in-law had been tortured violently, threatened
with rape and his private parts had been grabbed.

Mr Zuybyr also alleged that, when Mr Adebolajo returned to Britain, he had been
pestered by MI5 about informing for them. He added that other members of the
family had been quizzed about Mr Adebolajo in an effort to put pressure on him.

Mr Adebolajo's elder brother, Jeremiah, had gone to Saudi Arabia to teach
English, but had been arrested and harassed by the authorities about his
brother. And Mr Zuybyr himself said that when he went to Yemen four years ago to
learn Arabic with his new wife, he was rounded up and questioned at gunpoint.

He added: "When I came back to Britain, MI5 contacted me and showed significant
interest in Michael. I was harassed for a while, with constant calls from people
claiming to be from the FBI." Mr Zuybyr and his wife left their family in London
and moved to east Lancashire, but he said MI5 had still tracked him down and
questioned him about his brother-in-law.

Sir Malcolm made it clear last night that MI5 would be closely questioned about
any suggestion that it had been in contact with the two men arrested in
connection with Drummer Rigby's death.

He said: "I have been following all the news items and you can certainly assume
that any of these serious allegations will be put to the intelligence agencies."

Colonel Richard Kemp, former commander of British forces in Afghanistan and a
past chairman of the Government's Cobra intelligence committee, conceded that
MI5 and the police could possibly have done more to prevent the shocking murder.

But, he added: "It would have required probably significant additional
resources, so that they can increase the number of suspects they monitor. Even
though these two were on their radar, they have to prioritise who they look at,
because surveillance, monitoring and communications is all very expensive. And
maybe they need more resources to do that if it is necessary to widen the net,
which I think probably it is."

EDL marches in Newcastle

An estimated 2,000 English Defence League supporters paraded through Newcastle
upon Tyne city centre yesterday as right-wing groups appeared to be gaining
followers in the wake of Drummer Lee Rigby's death. Two weeks ago it was thought
about 500 would attend.

Yesterday's demonstration, which was met by around 400 anti-fascist protestors,
passed without major incident after 1,000 officers lined the streets,
Northumbria Police said, adding that there were "a number" of arrests for
drunkenness, or to prevent public order offences. The BNP (British National
Party) has said it will march on Saturday in Woolwich, where the soldier lost
his life last week.

The young father's killing provoked a backlash across the country, with many
reported incidents of mosques being attacked and racial abuse.

Paul Cahalan

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 26, 2013 Sunday 1:30 PM GMT

Anti-terrorist police in hunt for attacker after French soldier is stabbed in
Paris;
The soldier was wounded in the incident which happened as he patrolled the
French capital's La Defense business district with two comrades

BYLINE: Rob Williams

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 420 words


French anti-terrorist investigators are hunting an attacker who stabbed a
soldier in the neck in Paris yesterday evening.

The soldier was wounded in the incident which happened as he patrolled the
French capital's La Defense business district with two comrades.

Private First Class Cedric Cordier, 23, who was armed and in uniform, was
approached from behind and attacked with a knife or a box-cutter by the man, who
fled the scene. Despite losing a considerable amount of blood officials said he
was in a stable condition in a nearby military hospital.

Yesterday Defence Minister Jean Yves Le Drian told reporters that Cordier had
been targeted because of his profession.

A manhunt is now underway the attacker who authorities described as a bearded
man of North African origin.

Unconfirmed French press reports claim the attacker had been wearing a
light-coloured robe called a djellaba.

President Francois Hollande said the identity of the attacker was unknown, and
warned against jumping to conclusions about the assault.

However Nanterre prosecutor Robert Gelli told reporters that anti-terrorist
investigators were handling the case.

Scotland Yard would not comment on whether it was looking into any links between
the attack and the murder of Drummer Rigby.

His brutal murder in Woolwich, south-east London, in a suspected terrorist
attack has raised fears of potential copycat strikes.

The uniformed French soldier was on a group patrol during a national protection
programme when he was attacked from behind by a silent assailant, prosecutor
Robert Gelli said.

"There are elements - the sudden violence of the attack - that could lead one to
believe there might be a comparison with what happened in London," interior
minister Manuel Valls told France 2 television. "But at this point, honestly,
let us be prudent."

Drummer Rigby was attacked while walking outside the Royal Artillery Barracks in
Woolwich. The gruesome scene was recorded on witnesses' mobile phones and a
video emerged in which one of the two suspects - his hands bloodied - boasted of
their exploits and warned of more violence as the soldier lay on the ground.

French security forces have been on heightened alert since their country
launched a military intervention in the African nation of Mali in January to
regain territory seized by Islamic radicals.

Last year three French paratroopers were killed by a man police described as a
French-born Islamic extremist who then went on to strike a Jewish school in the
south of France, killing four more people.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 26, 2013 Sunday 9:54 PM GMT

Wish you were here? Cameron sparks row by 'swanning off' on holiday to Ibiza
with his family just days after 'terror attack' and Tory backbencher says he has
'12 months to turn it around'

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1276 words



     ·    Couple have coffee and relax in the sun at restaurant beside beach
     ·    Trip comes days after soldier's killing and arrest of two suspected
          extremists
     ·    'The public deserve better from their prime Minister' says Labour MP
     ·    Up to four groups of MPs are said to be plotting about Mr Cameron's
          future
     ·    Tory donors threaten to abandon the Party and defect to UKIP
     ·    But poll backs Mr Cameron's handling of the horrifying incident in
          Woolwich
     ·    Backbencher says PM has got year to show that his EU strategy 'works'
     ·    David Ruffley says that Tories must prevent UKIP splitting their vote
     ·    'Around 20' Tory MPs willing to run in 2015 on joint ticket, Nigel
          Farage says


David Cameron has been condemned for flying out of the country on a week's
family holiday as Britain faced its biggest terror crisis since the 7/7 bombings
in 2005.

MPs are said to be outraged as it emerged the Prime Minister has taken a 'few
days break' over the Bank Holiday on the Spanish island of Ibiza.

But Downing Street hit back at the criticism today and said he 'remains in
charge' despite being abroad.

It comes as a Conservative backbencher today warned that the Prime Minister may
only have a year to save his job.

Mr Cameron went on a mid-morning flight yesterday with his wife Samantha and
their children Nancy, Elwen and Florence.

MP for Bury St Edmunds, David Ruffley said today the Prime Minister has to win
the argument on the EU in the coming year or UKIP will split the Tory vote at
the European Elections in 12 months.

'I think next May's euro elections might put pressure on him to go harder
because there is a lot of speculation in and around Downing Street, so I am led
to believe, that UKIP might come first, ' he said.

'Now if that happens next May there'll be 12 months before the election and some
of our colleagues in marginal seats might get a bit windy.

'I don't think UKIP are going to win seats but they could split the Conservative
vote if they are very strong and let Labour through in those marginal seats.

'But I think David Cameron has got 12 months to show that his strategy works.'

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said today that his party is 'in talks all over the
place' with Tory politicans keen to join him, with 'around 20' Eurosceptic MPs
willing to stand on a Conservative/UKIP joint ticket in the 2015 general
election, he said.

Mr Cameron has also come under fire from backbencher Douglas Carswell, who
accused ministers of allowing civil servants to take over the Government.

He said: 'I think we need to actually take on the Mandarinate, who all too often
seem to be really running this government, and that is the fundamental problem.'

But Mr Carswell dismissed pressure for a leadership election, saying: 'It would
be extraordinarily disruptive.'

However, up to four groups of MPs are said to be plotting about Mr Cameron's
future. Allies of backbencher Adam Afriyie are urging him to make fresh
interventions to burnish his own leadership credentials.

The Prime Minister's family break trip came just two days after he chaired a
meeting of the Cabinet emergency committee Cobra to discuss the murder of
soldier Lee Rigby in Woolwich, south-east London, and the arrest of two
suspected Islamic extremists.

Labour MP Sarah Champion said Mr Cameron's decision to take a break showed he
was 'utterly out of touch.'

She told the  Sun : 'While the country struggles to come to terms with the vile
crime in Woolwich this week and investigations continue, he has swanned off to
Ibiza.

'The public deserve better from their Prime Minister.'

There was also a negative reaction to the holiday on Twitter.

One critic said: 'Head of new Task Force to deal with extremism is running
operations from a beach in Ibiza, #DavidCameron's "urgent approach"!!'

Another wrote: 'Britain on terror alert. David Cameron on holiday in ibiza.
About right then.'

Mrs Cameron is known to value private holidays with the family and the Prime
Minister has admitted in the past that she insists they get away together.

Mr Cameron has been accompanied by a small team of key staff and is being kept
up to date over developments in the murder of Drummer Lee Rigby.

Amid suggestions he should have remained in the country, Mr Cameron won support
from an unlikely source.

Tory backbencher Nadine Dorries, a well-known critic of her party's leader, said
it was 'ridiculous' to criticise him for having a few days away'

She told Murnaghan on Sky News: "We have got the internet, we've got mobile
phones. I think Cameron could actually get back from Ibiza to London quicker
than if he was in Cornwall.

'I think he is entitled to a holiday, he's entitled to be with his family. I
actually want the Prime Minister to be refreshed, feeling happy because he's had
holiday time with his kids and his wife and come back and be a refreshed Prime
Minister.'

Looking relaxed and casual, the couple sipped coffee against a picturesque
beachside backdrop.

Mr Cameron, in a dark shirt and open-toed sandals, and his wife, who was
sporting a sun dress, were left undisturbed by nearby customers, including
fellow Brits.

A No10 spokesman said: 'The PM is on holiday with his family for the week. As
always, whilst away, he remains in charge, and has office support with him.'

In the past 24 hours, three men, aged 21, 24, and 28 were arrested in swoops by
anti-terror police across London on suspicion of conspiracy to commit murder.

Two of the suspects were Tasered before they surrendered in Charlton.

Officers searched four other addresses in Greenwich. Three people have been held
for for making racial comments on Facebook and Twitter.

Two men arrested on suspicion of murder at the scene where drummer Rigby was
killed on Wednesday remain in custody in hospital in a stable condition.

Michael Adebolajo, 28, and Michael Adebowale, 22, were shot and wounded by
police.

A 29-year-old man, arrested on Thursday on suspicion of conspiracy to murder,
has been bailed to return pending further inquiries.

A poll last week showed the public were 42.5 per cent in favour of calling MPs
back from their Whitsun break to discuss the security crisis.

But voters surveyed in today's Mail On Sunday backed the Prime Minister's
response to the incident in Woolwich.

He was awarded a plus 19 rating for his handling of the situation, Labour leader
Ed Miliband received a plus six rating, while Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg
was awarded zero.

Almost two thirds of people in the UK believe we need more stringent terrorism
laws and would support the death penalty for terrorists, according to the online
Survation poll.

Meanwhile, in Paris a French soldier was stabbed in the throat in what was
feared to be a copycat of the attack on Mr Rigby.

Police described the assailant  as being 'bearded, of North African origin and
wearing a light coloured jihab' under a jacket.He fled after the assault.

There has been a large increase in anti-Muslim incidents since Wednesday's
murder, an inter-faith charity has said.

At Westminster, Mr Cameron is facing a revolt on two fronts, according to the
Sunday Times.

Party donors are threatening to join UKIP and backbenchers have warned he may
have to break up the coalition to remain leader.

Multimillionaire Lord Kalms, the former Conservative party treasurer, has said
he is 'willing to pack my bags' and join the UK Independence party unless the PM
adopts a bolder approach to Europe.

He told the paper: 'If UKIP has the right policies, that's where we'll go. I am
very, very disenchanted and won't tolerate being dragged down into Europe
without some fight.'

A growing number of the 2010 intake of Tory MPs, believe their party should
withdraw from the coalition at least a year before the next general election in
2015 to save seats.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 26, 2013 Sunday 6:55 PM GMT

Wish you were here? Cameron sparks row by 'swanning off' on holiday to Ibiza
with his family just days after 'terror attack' and Tory backbencher says he has
'12 months to turn it around'

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1159 words



     ·    Couple have coffee and relax in the sun at restaurant beside beach
     ·    Trip comes days after soldier's killing and arrest of two suspected
          extremists
     ·    'The public deserve better from their prime Minister' says Labour MP
     ·    Tory donors threaten to abandon the Party and defect to UKIP
     ·    But poll backs Mr Cameron's handling of the horrifying incident in
          Woolwich
     ·    Backbencher says PM has got year to show that his EU strategy 'works'
     ·    David Ruffley says that Tories must prevent UKIP splitting their vote
     ·    'Around 20' Tory MPs willing to run in 2015 on joint ticket, Nigel
          Farage says


David Cameron has been condemned for flying out of the country on a week's
family holiday as Britain faced its biggest terror crisis since the 7/7 bombings
in 2005.

MPs are said to be outraged as it emerged the Prime Minister has taken a 'few
days break' over the Bank Holiday on the Spanish island of Ibiza.

But Downing Street hit back at the criticism today and said he 'remains in
charge' despite being abroad.

Mr Cameron went on a mid-morning flight yesterday with his wife Samantha and
their children Nancy, Elwen and Florence.

It came as a Conservative backbencher today warned that the Prime Minister may
only have a year to save his job.

MP for Bury St Edmunds, David Ruffley said today the Prime Minister has to win
the argument on the EU in the coming year or UKIP will split the Tory vote at
the European Elections in 12 months.

'I think next May's euro elections might put pressure on him to go harder
because there is a lot of speculation in and around Downing Street, so I am led
to believe, that UKIP might come first, ' he said.

'Now if that happens next May there'll be 12 months before the election and some
of our colleagues in marginal seats might get a bit windy.

'I don't think UKIP are going to win seats but they could split the Conservative
vote if they are very strong and let Labour through in those marginal seats.

'But I think David Cameron has got 12 months to show that his strategy works.'

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said today that his party is 'in talks all over the
place' with Tory politicans keen to join him, with 'around 20' Eurosceptic MPs
willing to stand on a Conservative/UKIP joint ticket in the 2015 general
election, he said.

The Prime Minister's family break trip came just two days after he chaired a
meeting of the Cabinet emergency committee Cobra to discuss the murder of
soldier Lee Rigby in Woolwich, south-east London, and the arrest of two
suspected Islamic extremists.

Labour MP Sarah Champion said Mr Cameron's decision to take a break showed he
was 'utterly out of touch.'

She told the  Sun : 'While the country struggles to come to terms with the vile
crime in Woolwich this week and investigations continue, he has swanned off to
Ibiza.

'The public deserve better from their Prime Minister.'

There was also a negative reaction to the holiday on Twitter.

One critic said: 'Head of new Task Force to deal with extremism is running
operations from a beach in Ibiza, #DavidCameron's "urgent approach"!!'

Another wrote: 'Britain on terror alert. David Cameron on holiday in ibiza.
About right then.'

Mrs Cameron is known to value private holidays with the family and the Prime
Minister has admitted in the past that she insists they get away together.

Mr Cameron has been accompanied by a small team of key staff and is being kept
up to date over developments in the murder of Drummer Lee Rigby.

Amid suggestions he should have remained in the country, Mr Cameron won support
from an unlikely source.

Tory backbencher Nadine Dorries, a well-known critic of her party's leader, said
it was 'ridiculous' to criticise him for having a few days away'

She told Murnaghan on Sky News: "We have got the internet, we've got mobile
phones. I think Cameron could actually get back from Ibiza to London quicker
than if he was in Cornwall.

'I think he is entitled to a holiday, he's entitled to be with his family. I
actually want the Prime Minister to be refreshed, feeling happy because he's had
holiday time with his kids and his wife and come back and be a refreshed Prime
Minister.'

Looking relaxed and casual, the couple sipped coffee against a picturesque
beachside backdrop.

Mr Cameron, in a dark shirt and open-toed sandals, and his wife, who was
sporting a sun dress, were left undisturbed by nearby customers, including
fellow Brits.

A No10 spokesman said: 'The PM is on holiday with his family for the week. As
always, whilst away, he remains in charge, and has office support with him.'

In the past 24 hours, three men, aged 21, 24, and 28 were arrested in swoops by
anti-terror police across London on suspicion of conspiracy to commit murder.

Two of the suspects were Tasered before they surrendered in Charlton.

Officers searched four other addresses in Greenwich. Three people have been held
for for making racial comments on Facebook and Twitter.

Two men arrested on suspicion of murder at the scene where drummer Rigby was
killed on Wednesday remain in custody in hospital in a stable condition.

Michael Adebolajo, 28, and Michael Adebowale, 22, were shot and wounded by
police.

A 29-year-old man, arrested on Thursday on suspicion of conspiracy to murder,
has been bailed to return pending further inquiries.

A poll last week showed the public were 42.5 per cent in favour of calling MPs
back from their Whitsun break to discuss the security crisis.

But voters surveyed in today's Mail On Sunday backed the Prime Minister's
response to the incident in Woolwich.

He was awarded a plus 19 rating for his handling of the situation, Labour leader
Ed Miliband received a plus six rating, while Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg
was awarded zero.

Almost two thirds of people in the UK believe we need more stringent terrorism
laws and would support the death penalty for terrorists, according to the online
Survation poll.

Meanwhile, in Paris a French soldier was stabbed in the throat in what was
feared to be a copycat of the attack on Mr Rigby.

Police described the assailant  as being 'bearded, of North African origin and
wearing a light coloured jihab' under a jacket.He fled after the assault.

There has been a large increase in anti-Muslim incidents since Wednesday's
murder, an inter-faith charity has said.

At Westminster, Mr Cameron is facing a revolt on two fronts, according to the
Sunday Times.

Party donors are threatening to join UKIP and backbenchers have warned he may
have to break up the coalition to remain leader.

Multimillionaire Lord Kalms, the former Conservative party treasurer, has said
he is 'willing to pack my bags' and join the UK Independence party unless the PM
adopts a bolder approach to Europe.

He told the paper: 'If UKIP has the right policies, that's where we'll go. I am
very, very disenchanted and won't tolerate being dragged down into Europe
without some fight.'

A growing number of the 2010 intake of Tory MPs, believe their party should
withdraw from the coalition at least a year before the next general election in
2015 to save seats.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 26, 2013 Sunday 7:33 AM GMT

Obama under fire for declaring the war on terror 'over' in week of extremist
attacks

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 945 words



     ·    Obama says al-Qaida is 'on the path to defeat,' reducing the scale of
          terrorism to pre-Sept. 11 levels.
     ·    'Wishing the defeat of terrorists does not make it so,' said Rep. Mac
          Thornberry, a Texas Republican


Some call it wishful thinking, but President Barack Obama has all but declared
an end to the global war on terror.

Obama is not claiming final victory over extremists who still seek to kill
Americans and other Westerners. Instead, he is refocusing the long struggle
against terrorism that lies ahead, steering the United States away from what he
calls an equally frightening threat - a country in a state of perpetual war. In
doing so, Obama recasts the image of the terrorists themselves, from enemy
warriors to cowardly thugs and resets the relationship between the U.S. and
Islam.

His speech Thursday was designed to move America's mindset away from a war
footing and refine and recalibrate his own counterterrorism strategy. Obama
asserted that al-Qaida is 'on the path to defeat,' reducing the scale of
terrorism to pre-Sept. 11 levels. That means that with the Afghanistan war
winding down, Obama is unlikely to commit troops in large numbers to any
conflict - in Syria or other countries struggling with instability in the
uncertain aftermath of the Arab Spring - unless, as his critics fear, he
tragically has underestimated al-Qaida's staying power.

'Wishing the defeat of terrorists does not make it so,' said Rep. Mac
Thornberry, a Texas Republican who is vice chairman of the House Armed Services
Committee and a member of the House Intelligence Committee.

In Thornberry's view, Obama is pushing the idea that 'we can simply declare
al-Qaida beaten and go back to the pre-9/11 era.'

From the beginning of his presidency, Obama's centerpiece of his national
security strategy has been a desire to move beyond the wars he inherited in Iraq
and Afghanistan, as well as in the shadowy spaces occupied by al-Qaida and its
offshoots now creeping up in North Africa and elsewhere.

Those endeavors consumed enormous amounts of his administration's time and
attention during his first term, not to mention the incalculable costs paid by
military members and their families.

'This war, like all wars, must end,' he said. 'That's what history advises.
That's what our democracy demands.'

As Obama edges toward a new approach to national security, his political
opponents are quick to raise doubts.

'Too often, this president has sought to end combat operations through rhetoric
rather than reality,' GOP Rep. Howard P. 'Buck' McKeon of California, chairman
of the House Armed Services Committee, said Friday.

'He has declared the war in Iraq over, but the insurgency there continues. He
has declared an end to combat operations in Afghanistan, but the Taliban fight
on. He has now declared the war on terrorism over, despite a terrorist attack in
Britain this week, a terrorist attack in Boston last month and a terrorist
attack in Libya that left a U.S. ambassador and three other Americans dead last
year.'

Yet the president cautioned against a return to what he called a complacency in
counterterrorism before Islamic extremists hijacked U.S. jetliners and slammed
them into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

'Make no mistake,' he said, 'our nation is still threatened by terrorists,'
noting that the deadly attacks in Benghazi, Libya, last September and in Boston
last month were tragic reminders.

But he also left little doubt that he thinks it is time to turn the page on the
post-9/11 approach. He was referring not only to the controversial use of armed
drones to target terrorists in Pakistan, Afghanistan and other countries, but
also the commitment of tens of thousands of U.S. ground troops in conventional
fighting.

'For all the focus on the use of force, force alone cannot make us safe,' he
said. 'We cannot use force everywhere that a radical ideology takes root,'
adding that 'a perpetual war - through drones or Special Forces or troop
deployments - will prove self-defeating and alter our country in troubling way.'

Some counterterrorism experts long have argued that the global war on terror
should be brought to a close, and that some of the policies and programs put in
place after 9/11 should be reconsidered and possibly changed.

James Lewis, a national security expert at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, argues for a more traditional approach to battling
terrorism, largely through law enforcement and the intelligence community.

Lewis said that ending the fight against terrorism will help reinforce the
administration's message that America is not at war with Islam.

'It helps, because it delegitimizes the terrorists,' said Lewis. 'They want to
think of themselves as warriors. We want the world to think of them as crooks.
We want everyone in every country not to think of them as terrorists defending
Islam, but as people who are psychos. They are criminals, and that's what we
want to paint them as.'

That is closely in line with Obama's description of what remains of the
terrorist threat.

He said core al-Qaida, the organization formerly led by Osama bin Laden, is 'a
shell of its former self.' The president said that while one of its most
troublesome affiliates, al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, is a force to be
reckoned with, 'in the years to come, not every collection of thugs that labels
themselves al-Qaida will pose a credible threat to the United States.'

He also cautioned against the threat of homegrown extremists and said terrorism
may never go away entirely.

'But as we shape our response, we have to recognize that the scale of this
threat closely resembles the types of attacks we faced before 9/11,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              May 26, 2013 Sunday

Big brother law and 'terror taskforce' won't halt attacks, say campaigners

BYLINE: Paddy McGuffin

SECTION: BRITAIN

LENGTH: 427 words


She hit out after PM David Cameron and Home Secretary Theresa May unveiled a
sweeping crackdown on extremist groups in the wake of the killing of soldier Lee
Rigby in London on Wednesday. The "task force," comprising Cabinet ministers and
senior police and security service officials, will focus on radical preachers
who seek out potential recruits in prisons, schools, colleges and mosques. The
Prime Minister also announced that the parliamentary intelligence and security
committee will carry out an investigation following the disclosure that the two
men suspected of murdering Drummer Rigby - identified as Michael Adebolajo, 28,
and Michael Oluwatobi Adebowale, 22 - were known to MI5. Speaking to the BBC
today Ms May said she would seek to reintroduce shelved plans for the draft
Communications Data Bill, described by critics as a snooper's charter.

The Home Secretary said there had been a reference to the plans in the Queen's
Speech. She added: "I have always been clear that access to communications data
is essential for law enforcement agencies and the intelligence agencies." Ms May
also floated the idea of lowering the legal limits that govern when an extremist
group can be banned. "We do need to look at the powers, we do need to look at
the laws," she said. "We do need to look, for example, at the question of
whether perhaps we need to have banning orders to ban organisations that don't
meet the threshold for proscription." Tighter rules could also be imposed on
internet service providers, the Home Secretary suggested. She added: "One of the
issues we need to look at is whether we have got the right processes, the right
rules in place in relation to what is being beamed into people's homes." But
Stop the War Coalition convenor Lindsey German told the Morning Star: "The real
anti-extremist task force we need is to stop the foreign policy of invading
other people's countries and failing to take action over Palestine - changing
policy so that people don't feel disaffected. "The security forces knew who
these people were. "More surveillance and phone-tapping etc will not help the
situation. "Unless we change government policy we will face more attacks like
this - you can't legislate against it there has to be a political solution."
Civil liberties campaign group Big Brother Watch deputy director Emma Carr said:
"It is remarkable for politicians to be jumping to legislation to monitor the
entire country when all the evidence to date shows this horrific attack would
not have been prevented by the Communications Data Bill."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2013 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 26, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Clegg attacked for blocking anti-terror bill;
Tory MPs are fighting to revive a plan to record all mobile calls and emails
that was torpedoed by the Lib Dems as a snoopers' charter

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott ; David Leppard

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 917 words


A BITTER coalition row has broken out over the Liberal Democrat role in
torpedoing measures designed to thwart terrorist attacks.

In the wake of last week's murder of Drummer Lee Rigby, Tory MPs have launched a
tirade against Nick Clegg for scuppering legislation he has branded a "snoopers'
charter".

One ministerial aide warned that Clegg would have to "bear the responsibility"
if his "petty party politics" left Britain vulnerable to attack.

Downing Street and Theresa May, the home secretary, are keen to revive the plan
to record data about all website visits, emails, mobile calls and use of social
media so they can be searched by officials.

A commitment to pass the Communications Data Bill was dropped from this month's
Queen's speech at the insistence of Clegg, who hailed a victory for civil
liberties.

However, supporters believe it could play a vital role in uncovering terrorist
plots, and officials are keeping it under review.

In the most outspoken comments about Clegg's role by a Tory, Ben Wallace,
parliamentary private secretary to Ken Clarke, the cabinet minister without
portfolio, said: "Lib Dems need to stop putting ideology before the nation's
security.

"Simple, short-notice, terror attacks have very few vulnerabilities that our
security services can exploit. One of the few [vulnerabilities] they do have is
communications.

"The security of our streets is not a game. If there are capabilities we could
give our law enforcement agencies to keep us safe then we should not stand in
the way. Those that do so for petty party politics - including Nick Clegg - will
ultimately have to bear the responsibility."

May's plan to revive the bill is backed by Chris Grayling, the justice
secretary. Others who have lined up to back it include Lord Reid, the former
Labour home secretary, and Lord West, the former security minister.

This weekend, Sir Malcolm Rifkind, chairman of the parliamentary intelligence
and security committee which is to investigate MI5's role in the attack, said
opponents of the snooping bill were misguided in believing it marked a new
departure in surveillance.

Rifkind said he had been briefed by Andrew Parker, the head of MI5, on the
Woolwich attack. While stressing it was too early to say whether the bill's
proposed powers would have stopped the attack, he said: "I think it's naive of
people to say that you should not keep up with changing technology.

"Since the 7/7 bombings [in 2005] there is not a year that has passed without
one or several plots being disrupted before they killed anyone and in each and
every case intercepting evidence of the kind that is relevant to the
Communications Data Bill was important and part of the reason why these
terrorist plots were disrupted and no one was killed." However, there were no
signs this weekend that Lib Dem opponents would back down. A spokesman for Clegg
said: "Both the prime minister and deputy prime minister have cautioned against
kneejerk responses. There is currently no suggestion that the proposals in the
draft Communications Data Bill would have had any relevance to [the] sickening
events."

Julian Huppert, the Lib Dem MP for Cambridge and a leading opponent of the bill,
said the arguments were "unaffected by these tragic events". He added: "This
[the Woolwich murder] wouldn't have been prevented by finding out what people do
when they are on Facebook.

"If we give way to terrorists by clamping down on our own population like that,
making everyone a suspect, we make sure that terrorists win."

However, Lord Carlile, the former government watchdog and a Lib Dem peer, said
he had told Clegg that his decision to drop the snooping bill was wrong. "The
government made a mistake in abandoning the draft bill. I believe this [attack]
highlights the importance of keeping communications data as a tool."

1,000 police keep rival protests apart One thousand police officers took to the
streets of Newcastle yesterday as 2,500 rival protesters from the English
Defence League and Newcastle Unites, an anti-fascism organisation, held marches
in the city, writes Georgia Graham.

A total of 24 arrests were made, including three for posting allegedly racist
tweets before the parades. The demonstrations finished just 100 yards apart with
lines of officers standing between the two groups.

The protests were arranged before the killing of Drummer Lee Rigby on Wednesday.
Since his death there has been a sharp rise in racially motivated attacks,
including several on mosques across Britain.

Faith Matters, an interfaith charity, said it had received 162 calls to its
helpline about race-related attacks since Wednesday - up from an average of six
a day before the killing.

Fiyaz Mughal, its director, said the incidents ranged from attacks against
mosques to graffiti and Muslim women having their headscarves pulled off.

He told BBC Radio 5 Live yesterday: "What's really concerning is the spread of
these incidents. They're coming in from right across the country. Some of them
are quite aggressive: very focused, very aggressive attacks."

In Bolton anti-Islamic phrases were sprayed across the walls of a mosque, while
"Muslim scum" was painted in red on the wall of the Bournemouth Islamic Centre.
A bottle was set alight and hurled at the Zainabia Islamic Centre in Bletchley,
Buckinghamshire.

In Braintree, Essex, a 43-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of attempted
arson after walking into a mosque. Another man was arrested in Gillingham, Kent,
on suspicion of aggravated criminal damage at a mosque.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Usman Ali, inset far left, held prayer meetings attended by the two
suspects, above. The other man seen left is believed to be Abu Nasaybah,
arrested on Friday after an interview at the BBC
Lee Rigby holding the nephew of his friend Simon Valentine, who was killed in
Afghanistan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                                  May 26, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

HEROES GRANTED BOROUGH FREEDOM;
WOOLWICH TERROR ATTACK Castlereagh gives honour to brave Territorial troops

BYLINE: SARA GIRVIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 333 words


THE borough of Castlereagh yesterday showed its support for local Territorial
Army soldiers yesterday as revulsion grows over the the Woolwich terror attack.

; Dozens of people turned out to show their support for the TA soldiers who
served in Iraq and Afghanistan as they were awarded the Freedom of Castlereagh.

; First Minister Peter Robinson was at Castlereagh Council civic centre to
bestow the honour upon troops from 152 Ulster Transport Regiment and 152 Royal
Electrical and Mechanical Engineers.

; But Sinn Fein MLA Barry McElduff last night caused controversy when he
described the ceremony as "a sickening display" on Twitter. The Freedom of the
Borough is the highest honour a local authority can grant.

; During the event, the soldiers , parading in the wake of the murder of their
armed forces colleague, Drummer Lee Rigby who was brutally hacked to death in
Woolwich in London on Wednesday, were also presented with specially commissioned
medals.

; The First Minister said yesterday's ceremony was especially poignant following
the death.

; "I've been out in Afghanistan, I've seen the job that these people do and they
do deserve much more than the recognition that we can give them," he said.

; "These men are heroes and they stand in our place in theatres of war, and when
they come back they might expect to have some peace and stability and enjoy
life.

; "Yet the dreadful events of the last week in London draw to our attention to
the fact that these men are always on duty and always serving."

; Lieutenant Colonel Tim Burgess said yesterday's award was a "great honour".

; "Over 300 members of the regiment have been deployed over the last 15 years to
support operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and the United Nations in Cyprus," he
said.

; The soldiers, who are based in Holywood and Londonderry, served alongside the
Regular Army in Afghanistan last year helping move supplies such as ammunition
and fuel.

; It is expected that they will return to the war-torn Helmand Province next
year.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PARADE: Soldiers in Castlereagh and (inset) Drummer Lee Rigby
RECOGNISING THE SOLDIER'S BRAVERY: First Minister Peter Robinson and Castlereagh
Lord Mayor Michael Henderson talking to the troops

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BSL


                           Copyright 2013 Sunday Life
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 26, 2013 Sunday 10:23 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: Cameron under fire as MI5 terrorism blunders emerge;
David Cameron visited MI5 headquarters to thank spies for their work on the
Woolwich terror case a day the after murder of Drummer Lee Rigby despite
concerns about the failings of security services.

BYLINE: By Steven Swinford and Christopher Hope

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 807 words


Both of the men accused of hacking the soldier to death had been monitored by
the security services for years, and one of them was allegedly approached with a
view to acting as an informant.

Details of Mr Cameron's visit to MI5's headquarters after Drummer Rigby's murder
emerged as the Prime Minister flew to Ibiza in Spain over the weekend for a
holiday with his family.

Downing Street said he "remains in charge" of Britain as he was pictured
relaxing in a cafe by the sea with his wife, Samantha.

A spokesman said has taken a small team of key staff with him so he can be kept
informed about the investigation into the murder of Drummer Rigby.

Mr Cameron's visit to MI5's headquarters and decision to go on holiday led to
questions about his judgement in the aftermath of the worst terrorist atrocity
on British soil since 7/7.

In other developments:

* The family of Drummer Rigby visited the scene of his murder in Woolwich, where
both his mother and sister were so overwhelmed by grief that they collapsed on
the roadside.

* Theresa May, the Home Secretary, said the attack was not the work of a "lone
wolf" as four other men were arrested by police over the weekend in connection
with the murder.

* Hate clerics could be barred from appearing on broadcasters such as the BBC
under government plans to expand the powers of Ofcom, the watchdog.

* Lord Howard, the former Conservative Home Secretary, suggested Labour and the
Tories join forces to push through a "snoopers' charter" against the wishes of
the Liberal Democrats.

* Kenyan officials said they arrested one of the suspected killers two years ago
with a group of alleged terrorists but British authorities had failed take the
matter seriously.

On Thursday Mr Cameron announced that the Intelligence and Security Committee
would carry out an independent investigation into what the intelligence services
knew about the alleged killers.

After visiting the scene of the murder in Woolwich, he then paid a trip to
security services headquarters on Millbank. He thanked staff for the work their
work on the investigation and other counter-terrorism successes.

However, a senior Westminster source suggested that it was a mistake to go there
so soon after the tragedy and amid concerns about potential intelligence
failings.

Michael Adebolajo, 28, had been known to the security services and police for a
decade and was arrested six years after violent protests by extremists outside
the Old Bailey six years ago.

In November 2010 he was arrested in Kenya after being caught trying to travel to
Somalia, allegedly to join the terrorist network Al-Shabaab.

Kenyan authorities say they returned him to British intelligence officers, who
failed to take their concerns seriously. The second suspected killer, Michael
Adebowale, 22, was also known to police and the intelligence services.

One senior Westminster source suggested the visit was a mistake. He said: "I
just wonder what he was going to thank them for. While they [the Security
Services] did tremendously well during the Olympics 10 months ago a number of
pieces of information have come to light since then. The interesting question is
how much David Cameron knew about the potential intelligence failings when he
went to see them."

A source said Mr Cameron's did not "exonerate" the intelligence agencies during
his visit to their headquarters.

The source said: "He wanted to thank them for the work they had done both on
that particular operation - there had been a lot of people working around the
clock - but also more generally.

"The work that they do is obviously highly secretive but the Prime Minister is
one of the few people who gets to see the effects of that work.

"The idea that he was either blaming the security services or exonerating them
when an investigation into what happened actually hasn't taken place isn't
right."

Mr Cameron today travelled to Ibiza, where he is spending a week long holiday in
a privately rented villa with his family.

A Downing Street source said: "He is on a week holiday with his kids. He has
some office support with him to remain full update in terms of what's going on
at home.

"The primary focus now is the investigation which is going on, which is being
led by police and security services not by the governments.

"There was a Cobra on Thursday but there aren't any more scheduled in. He
remains in charge of the country."

John Mann, a Labour MP, said: "People expect him to be at his desk leading from
the front. It is inappropriate that he is away, it suggests that he thinks he
can run the country from a beach in Spain.

"Does anyone think Margaret Thatcher or Tony Blair would disappear at a time
like this?"

Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister, will take a holiday next weekend while Ed
Miliband, the Labour leader, has opted for a holiday in Britain over the Bank
Holiday.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 26, 2013 Sunday 8:59 PM GMT

Woolwich attack: the terrorists will never win, says Eric Pickles;
The murder of Drummer Lee Rigby in Woolwich last week shocked the nation.

BYLINE: By Eric Pickles

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 825 words


It robbed a family of their son and robbed a young son of his father. Here was a
brave soldier who served with distinction in Afghanistan and fought to protect
our way of life. We will remember him.

But we should also remember that the perpetrators did not succeed in their goal
of dividing us. They were the catalyst that brought us together: from the
bravery of the teachers shepherding their pupils back into school to protect
them, to the courage of those who knelt beside the body, to that Scout leader
who confronted the machete-wielding assailant and told him he would never win.

We should recognise the fact that the murderous crime committed was motivated by
a twisted political and religious ideology of extreme Islamism. But those views
are no more reflective of mainstream British Muslims than the IRA were
representative of the Roman Catholic Church.

Unlike the events on 7/7, this time there were no attempts to justify these
crimes - no condoning and no backtracking. Instead there was a unified defiance:
British Muslims standing shoulder to shoulder with other faiths, united in their
unequivocal condemnation of this brutality.

At the Woolwich mosque they even pinned a notice to the door rejecting what the
Prime Minister called a blasphemous distortion of Islam.

This wouldn't have happened three, six or 10 years ago. It happened because
society is stronger than it has been before. So now is not the time to doubt the
strength of our British democracy.

Our answer to the extremists and preachers of hate is to speak out, to show them
for what they are.

That is why the Government's "integration" strategy focuses on working with
people of good will to marginalise and outflank the extremists - not only
Islamist preachers of hate, but also their malevolent counterpoint, the racist
English Defence League.

We are doing everything we can to encourage different communities to participate
more fully in British life. We are supporting programmes like Near Neighbours -
where churches are improving the administration and practice in local mosques.

We are encouraging greater participation in the Sea Cadets and Scouts that bring
people from all different backgrounds together in different ways. And we are
arming our diverse communities with the English language skills that will help
them get up and on in our society, at the same time as stopping spending money
on translating into foreign languages.

As we reflect on the events of this week, there is no doubt that more can and
will be done by the Government to challenge radicalisation and extremism. Our
commitment to British values is cutting the ground from under those messages of
hate, showing the radicals that their faces don't fit in modern Britain and that
we are united in solidarity against them.

Of course, we should all prefer not to hear their messages in the first place.
We should stand up for long-standing British liberties - our traditions of
freedom of speech and freedom of association - within the law.

Yet our laws are there to ensure preachers of hate are not given a licence to
incite violence or public disorder. And the police and judiciary should use
their powers when the line has been crossed.

Equality or human rights laws do not require the public sector to appease
extremism. Politicians of all colours, and clerics of all mainstream faiths,
should challenge hatred and the politics of division.

That means the public not standing idly by, but refusing to listen to their
sermons and refusing to accept their literature. That means broadcasters making
a sensible editorial judgement not to give oxygen to their publicity. And that
means councils not giving taxpayers' money to organisations which promote
segregation or shelter extremists.

Nor should we feel the need to apologise for our British values. This week, we
saw Left-wing councillors on Radstock town council in Somerset vote not to fly
the cross of St George on the grounds that it might "offend Muslims".

Such politically correct municipal officialdom harms - not helps - community
relations, by giving fuel to the extremists like the BNP and EDL. Faced with a
national outcry, they reversed their decision. But the damage had been done.

We should fly the flag. Whatever one's class, colour or creed, let's have pride
in Britain's local and national identities.

If there is one message from the events of the last week, it is this: we are
stronger as a society when we celebrate the ties that bind us together - our
national flags, our British pride, our sense of fun or the sheer joy of living
in a country that values you not for where you came from but for where you are
going.

These are the values that Lee Rigby fought to uphold. And if we're to honour his
memory and unite our communities, we must hold true to these British traditions,
British values and British liberties.

* Eric Pickles is the Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 26, 2013 Sunday 10:03 AM GMT

Woolwich copycat attack: French police study CCTV footage in manhunt for
soldier's attacker;
The manhunt for a suspected terrorist who tried to kill a French soldier
continued on Sunday as police confirmed he was caught on security camera
footage.

BYLINE: By Peter Allen Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 337 words


In an apparent copycat of the ambush in London in which a British serviceman was
murdered, the 6ft 2ins attacker struck in front of dozens of passers-by on
Saturday evening.

His victim, 23-year-old Private Cedric Cordier, fell to the floor instantly
after being stabbed in the throat and neck from behind.

Two comrades from the 4th Cavalry Regiment were with him, and carrying automatic
rifles, but they failed to react before the man ran off.

'We are looking through video surveillance footage,' said an officer at the
scene of the crime. 'He was seen taking off his Arab-style robes and running
away wearing European clothing.'

The attacker was bearded, in his 30s, of North African origin, and wore a long,
flowing Arab garment called a Djellaba.

Detectives are convinced that he was 'inspired' by the savage murder of Drummer
Lee Rigby, who died in Woolwich, south London, last Wednesday.

Paris police spokesman Christophe Crepin said: 'You don't have to be a great
observer to see that people are taking inspiration from what's happened abroad.'

While Drummer Rigby was off-duty, Private Cordier was on an anti-terrorism
patrol in La Defense business district of west Paris.

France's defence minister Jean Yves Le Drian said that attack had undoubtedly
been an 'attempt to kill' the soldier, whose regiment had recently fought in
Afghanistan.

Private Cordier lost a considerable amount of blood but is expected to survive,
and is being treated at the nearby Percy military hospital.

'There are elements - the sudden violence of the attack - that could lead one to
believe there might be a comparison with what happened in London,' added French
Interior Minister Manuel Valls.

France is considered a hotbed of radical Islamists, and the country's Vigipirate
anti-terrorist surveillance plan is currently in action.

Last year, Mohammed Merah, a 23-year-old French-Algerian Islamist, murdered
three French soldiers near the south west city of Toulouse during a killing
spree which also claimed the lives of four civilians.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 26, 2013 Sunday 7:40 AM GMT

Woolwich attack: our strategy on terror is a sad shambles;
The Satanic deed in Woolwich will not easily lose its power to shock. This was
what the perpetrators intended, for why else pause, bloodied hands on a knife,
to conduct monologues with onlookers with mobile phone cameras?

BYLINE: By Michael Burleigh

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1263 words


The responses of government are important at such times, and the Prime Minister
was probably right to hasten back from Paris to take charge.

But charge of what? A portentous-sounding Cobra committee designed to deal with
floods, storms and major terrorist incidents, rather than a deep-seated sickness
whose manifestations are either the subversion of our way of life or attempts to
murder us.

Ministerial sympathies with Drummer Lee Rigby's family, and horror at the crime,
were soon elided with concerns that the Muslim minority might be held
responsible for the foul deed committed by ranting, deracinated scum.

As usual, Baroness Warsi was vocal in lecturing us that all Muslims abhorred
these deeds, although she does not seem to have asked herself why so few of them
report hard evidence of community members going off the rails.

Even a Conservative-led Coalition Government shudders at the mythical echo of
the jackboot, although 100 drunken ruffians singing "Rule Britannia" outside a
Woolwich pub hardly constitute the subterranean movement of dark Left-liberal
imaginings.

Let's switch the focus back to where it deserves to be held, coldly and calmly.

Reports state that the two Islamists are products of urban ghettos and a
subversive, radicalising mulch that governments of all stripes seem unable to
deal with. For using political violence to alter this country's foreign policy
certainly is a form of subversion.

Both men had backgrounds in London's loathsome gang culture where the "bredas"
fight "the feds", as one Twitter star had it. The older one strayed into the
stronger gang represented by the Islamist sect al-Mujaharoun, and had to be
relocated to rural Lincolnshire by his Nigerian immigrant parents.

The younger one seems to have been on the run from gang-related violence in
which he appeared to be a player rather than a victim.

What, if anything, are the ubiquitous Mayor Johnson and Metropolitan Police
Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe doing about this conduit or interface that
bridges street gangsterism and street Islamism?

Why have no steps been taken against the slippery former lawyer and fake sheik,
Anjem Choudary, the cheap date darling of BBC2's Newsnight, who might be
encouraged to work rather than living on state handouts?

For in easily recovered 2007 photographs there was "Mujahid" Adebolajo looming
behind Choudary at demonstrations where placards urged the beheading of British
soldiers.

Many of these men have sometimes spent time in prison, where they become further
radicalised. This happens a lot nowadays, given the increasing numbers of
Muslims inside prisons, where they have access to imams and the like.

Gangs often dominate prisons, and the Islamists are a very powerful gang,
offering persuasive simplicities to people whose lives are in a mess.

We've been here before, as any number of excellent studies by the Northern
Ireland Prison Service showed in the case of the IRA, an earlier armed gang that
could dominate any jail with half a dozen fanatics, as mainland British prisons
discovered too.

I mention this background since I was involved, in a minor way, in advising the
government on revising the Prevent strategy, under which Labour had sought to
co-opt non-violent extremists by doling out lots of our money without much
discrimination.

Along with prisons, universities and further education colleges were identified
as the major areas of concern by the security services, although we were told
this de haut en bas, with no opportunities to discuss this plausible working
assumption.

That's how the British state operates, with the curtains firmly closed on the
Wizards of Oz inside Thames House or Vauxhall Cross.

What ensued was a sad shambles. If this is how policy is made, God help us.

Neither I nor my colleagues had any personal experience or knowledge of FE
colleges. Despite half a dozen requests to visit a few, no such visits occurred,
and therefore further education fell off the radar, despite being part of our
remit.

Slightly perplexed as to why the relevant minister had palmed the task on to a
colleague who talked a good Right-wing game but did little to implement one, we
persevered with universities, which we all knew about, especially two young men
from the National Union of Students whom I could not fault on this subject.

Universities, and their lobbyists, have done their best to deflect any untoward
attention, loftily arguing that "free speech" trumps any responsibility to the
wider public who their students (the "underpants bomber" Omar Farouk
Abdulmuttalab for one) had tried to blow up in mid-air.

Indeed, the vice-chancellor whose committee absolved UCL of any blame for
Abdulmutallab was at it again after he was appointed to review the problem of
student radicalisation nationally. He's a New Zealand human rights lawyer by the
way.

Unsurprisingly, we soon alighted on the role of Fosis, the Federation of Islamic
Student Societies, in creating a (sexually segregated) space in which young
people were being systematically indoctrinated in anti-Semitic, homophobic and
anti-Western hatred by visiting Islamic eminences.

Even as we laboured to press this point, a garrulous senior civil servant
reported jauntily on her excellent meetings with, yes, you've guessed it, the
head of Fosis. For in the eyes of the civil servants they were part of the
solution rather than the main problem. We were some unwanted irrelevance to that
entrenched bureaucratic group think.

Much effort went into ensuring that the final document we submitted on proposals
by the same civil servants actually contained our concerns about Fosis, for it
seems that, in Whitehall's Alice-in-Wonderland world, disliked thoughts get lost
in the works.

While, to her credit, Theresa May, the Home Secretary, declines to have dealings
with Fosis, her junior colleague Baroness Warsi hobnobs with them in the House
of Lords, claiming this totalitarian organisation has been "demonised" by the
media.

This was not an experience I am anxious to repeat, after realising that advisers
are just window dressing for what the civil servants want to do in the first
place. The only voice of sanity I encountered was Lord (Alex) Carlile, who had
an oversight remit for the general revision of Prevent and who has called for
deep police scrutiny of Mr Choudary.

What this problem needs is a laser-like focus on the overriding safety and
security of the general public, regardless of how much vested interests - like
universities - huff and puff, for we have the whip hand in the form of the money
we pay them.

Secondly, we need to revisit the Cold War notion of subversion, so that there
are legal penalties for those who would like to destroy our way of life, but who
know how to stop short of incitement to murder.

And, finally, there needs to be a multi-agency enforcement of zero tolerance to
the swaggering thugs one can see on many London streets so they learn they do
not have any separate territory where they make and enforce the rules.

When they go to jail it should be somewhere as far removed from their usual
habitat as possible, so that they experience the alienation that many
law-abiding people feel in their own environments.

So let's cut out the foot-dragging ex post facto inquiries, which just fatten up
more ghastly lawyers, and the mealy-mouthed talk of "community" sensitivities,
and try to do a few things more robustly than has been the case so far -
starting with putting Abu Qatada on a plane to Jordan within hours of the next
court judgment.

Otherwise we'll be here again, some time soon.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 27, 2013 Monday

Afghan paper urges security agencies to foil terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 407 words


Text of editorial entitled: "Crime again" by state-owned Afghan newspaper Anis
on 25 May

Burj-e Shahr Ara area of Kabul City was scene of deadly suicide attacks and
clashes between opposition fighters and government forces yesterday afternoon.

Five men wearing suicide vests and armed with light weapons entered the IOM
[International Organization for Migration] guesthouse in Burj-e Shahr Ara area.
Two of the assailants detonated their suicide vests and the remaining three
started clashing with government forces.

Burj-e Shahr Ara is one of the busiest roads in Kabul. A number of military
installations, foreign offices and government buildings are also located in this
area. The UN guesthouse and Malalai Maternity Hospital are also located on this
road.

The attack inflicted heavy human casualties and financial losses on the
residents of Kabul. Among the dead and wounded are military personnel and
government officials.

Although the armed assailants were besieged by Afghan military personnel,
clashes continued until late at night until all assailants were killed and the
situation was brought under control by the security forces.

It is not important who will take responsibility for this crime. The question is
how they entered Kabul and reach the heart of the city in the presence of
security check posts, search areas and vigilant security forces.

Since presidential and provincial council elections are fast approaching and
NATO forces will also be withdrawing soon, all opposition groups are trying to
disrupt security and kill innocent people in order to portray themselves as
powerful and to extract more concessions.

A suicide attack was staged in the Shah Shaheed area of Kabul a few days ago
killing and wounding innocent people including children. Hezb-e Eslami led by
Hekmatyar took responsibility for that unforgivable crime.

The Taleban have also announced that they will step up their attacks mainly
against government buildings and foreign agencies as the weather gets warmer.

Although Afghan security forces have declared their preparedness to tackle such
crimes, it can be seen that the criminals have the upper hand. Yesterday's
attack in Shahr Ara area of Kabul is a warning that security agencies must
detect and neutralize such threats before they materialize so that the people of
our country no longer have to witness such devastating incidents especially in
the capital Kabul.

Source: Anis, Kabul, in Dari 25 May 13, p 1

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 27, 2013
                                 First Edition

Police investigate 'copy-cat' attack on terrorism patrol soldier;
FRANCE

BYLINE: John Lichfield IN PARIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 317 words


An attack on a French soldier in a busy underground railway station near Paris
on Saturday might have been a spur-of-the-moment copy of the Woolwich killing,
French investigators believe.

France's terrorism investigation unit was called in yesterday to lead the hunt
for a man of North African appearance who stabbed in the neck a soldier on
anti-terrorist patrol amid thousands of Saturday shoppers.

The soldier was cut, possibly by a box-cutter, close to his carotid artery. He
bled profusely but was not seriously injured. His wound needed only one stitch.

Officially, the French government is making no direct link with the killing of a
British soldier in Woolwich last Wednesday. Unofficially, French investigators
are said to believe that it was a copy-cat attack.

The defence minister, Jean-Yves Le Drian, who visited the injured man in
hospital, said that it was clear that "someone wanted to kill him because he was
a soldier". The interior minister, Manuel Valls, said France would continue to
wage an "implacable fight against terrorism".

Cedric Cordier, 23, of the 4th cavalry regiment, was patrolling in battle-dress
with a policeman and another soldier in the underground concourse of the RER
(regional Metro) station at La Défense, west of Paris just before 6pm on
Saturday. Anti-terrorist patrols of this kind have become a common sight in
France since a series of bomb attacks on the Paris Metro in the mid-1990s.

The attacker was described as a muscular man of North African appearance, in his
early thirties, who may or may not have been wearing Islamic-type clothes.

He fled into the adjoining shopping centre before the other members of the
patrol could react. The area bristled with security cameras whose footage is
being studied.

The so-called "Vigipirate" armed military patrols on busy streets and in metro
and railways stations have often been criticised as more decorative than useful.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2013 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                              May 27, 2013 Monday

Afghanistan: UN condemns terrorist attack on partner agency's compound

LENGTH: 254 words


May 24, 2013

The top United Nations official in Afghanistan strongly condemned the terrorist
attack on a compound of the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in
central Kabul, which earlier today wounded three of the agency's staff, one
seriously.



One staff member from the UN International Labour Organization ( ILO ) was also
injured, according to a statement issued by Ján Kubis, the Special
Representative of the Secretary-General and head of the UN Assistance Mission in
Afghanistan ( UNAMA ). All are now receiving medical attention.

Mr. Kubis added that all UN staff members in the capital have been accounted
for.

The Taliban have claimed responsibility, alleging that their target was a
"military rest house," he said in the statement.

"The situation is reported to be under the control of Afghan security forces.
The mopping-up operation continues, with sporadic arms fire still being heard."

Mr. Kubis extended his sympathies to all those harmed in the attack and their
families, and said he is in touch with the leadership of the IOM, a
UN-affiliated organization.

He also recognized with gratitude the "quick actions" of UN security personnel,
including Ghurkha guards provided by the firm IDG Security, and Afghan security
forces.

"Initial information indicates that one police officer was killed in action. I
express my condolences to his family and my sympathies to all IDG Security
personnel, Afghan police and security forces injured while bravely responding to
this terrorist attack," he stated.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                              May 27, 2013 Monday

Terrorist Attacks in Niger

LENGTH: 124 words


May 27, 2013

Patrick Ventrell

Acting Deputy Spokesperson , Washington, DC

The United States condemns in the strongest terms the vicious terrorist attacks
on a Nigerien army facility in Agadez and a uranium mining facility, operated by
a French company, in Arlit on May 23. Our thoughts and prayers are with the
families of the victims. We express our condolences to the Nigerien people and
their government, who have stood steadfast in rejecting violent extremism. These
attacks targeted two of our key partners in the Sahel - Niger and France. We
commend both nations for their leadership within international efforts to combat
terrorism and reaffirm our unwavering commitment to improving the security of
the Sahel region and its people

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 27, 2013 Monday 5:04 PM GMT

Bearded man seen 'praying' on CCTV footage filmed moments before French soldier
was stabbed by suspected terrorist in Woolwich copycat attack

BYLINE: PETER ALLEN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 744 words



     ·    Private Cedric Cordier was stabbed in the throat and neck in Paris
     ·    Robed attacker, thought to be of North African origin, still at large
     ·    Attack came three days after British Drummer Lee Rigby killed in
          London
     ·    CCTV footage shows bearded man apparently praying shortly before
          attack
     ·    Detectives described 'tall, athletic' man aged around 30 praying near
          scene
     ·    'Traumatised' French soldier, 23, has now been released from hospital


A bearded man was filmed 'praying' shortly before the attempted murder of a
French soldier in Paris, it emerged today.

The high quality CCTV footage strengthens the theory that the attacker was an
Islamist fanatic inspired by the killing of a British serviceman in London.

It came as pictures were released of 23-year-old Private Cedric Cordier, the
Frenchman attacked in La Defense district of west Paris on Saturday evening.

Scroll down for video

The soldier, who was stabbed in the neck while he was on anti-terrorist patrol,
was released from hospital today but is said to have been left 'traumatised' by
the ambush.

Detectives have now confirmed that there are 'high quality images' of a 'tall,
athletic bearded man' aged about 30 and of North African origin praying near the
crime scene.

'He ran away into a crowded train station, and is still at large,' said a source
close to the investigation.

The French attack happened just three days after Lee Rigby, a British soldier,
was allegedly hacked to death by two Islamists near Woolwich barracks, in south
London.

Manuel Valls, France's interior minister, said the Paris attack appeared to be
an 'act of terrorism' and police were pursuing 'serious leads.'

Police are conducting DNA tests after finding a bag near the crime scene with a
box cutter, and a sheath for a second knife.

Cordier's girlfriend, Aurelie, told Le Parisian newspaper he was in a state of
shock and shot bolt upright in his hospital bed when a nurse came in during the
night, convinced it was his attacker 'come to finish the job'.

Aurelie added: 'He is really lucky to be alive. Two centimetres further, and it
would have been his carotid artery.

'You'd expect this sort of thing if he was on a mission to Mali but you don't
expect that in Paris,' she said.

France has been on high alert for attacks by Islamist militants since its
military intervention against Islamist rebels in Mali in January.

That prompted threats against French interests from AQIM, the North African wing
of al Qaeda.

The latest warning was published on YouTube a few weeks before gunmen this week
attacked a military base and a French uranium extraction site in the central
African state of Niger, killing 24 soldiers and one civilian.

Paris police conceded yesterday that the stabbing  was inspired by the terrorist
murder of Drummer Lee Rigby.

VIDEO: French police statement in wake of attack on soldier in Paris

Police spokesman Christophe Crepin said: 'You don't have to be a great observer
to see that people are taking inspiration from what's happened abroad.'

Politicians also acknowledged the similarities. 'The sudden violence... could
lead one to believe there might be a comparison with what happened in London,'
said interior minister Manuel Valls.

And defence minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said that attack had undoubtedly been an
'attempt to kill' the soldier, whose regiment had recently fought in
Afghanistan.

Two comrades from the 4th Cavalry Regiment were with him, and carrying automatic
rifles, but they failed to react before the man ran off.

'We are looking through video surveillance footage,' said an officer at the
scene of the crime. 'He was seen taking off his Arab-style robes and running
away wearing European clothing.'

Detectives are convinced that the attacker was 'inspired' by the savage murder
of Drummer Lee Rigby, who was allegedly hacked down by two radical Islamists in
Woolwich, south London, last Wednesday.

While Drummer Rigby was off duty when he was ambushed, Private Cordier was on an
anti-terrorism patrol in La Defense business district of west Paris.

France's defence minister Jean Yves Le Drian said that attack had undoubtedly
been an 'attempt to kill' the soldier, whose regiment had recently fought in
Afghanistan.

Private Cordier, who lost a considerable amount of blood, was rushed to the
nearby Percy military hospital for treatment.

France is considered a hotbed of radical Islamists, and the country's Vigipirate
anti-terrorist surveillance plan is currently in action.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 27, 2013 Monday 2:18 PM GMT

'Prime Minister should be supporting the Rigby family': Mother of soldier killed
by roadside bomb says Cameron should not have gone on holiday three days after
Woolwich terror attack

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1776 words



     ·    Rose Gentle's son Gordon died in a bomb attack in Iraq in June 2004
     ·    Camerons relaxed in sun at restaurant beside beach on three-day break
     ·    1,500 miles away the family of Lee Rigby visited spot where he died
     ·    PM widely criticised for taking holiday while Britain is on high
          terror alert
     ·    'The public deserve better from their prime Minister' says Labour MP
     ·    Downing Street says he is still 'in charge', brought staff and office
          facilities
     ·    Claims that suspect Michael Adebolajo was approached by MI5 in Kenya


The mother of a soldier killed in Iraq has attacked the Prime Minister's
decision to continue his holiday in the wake of the Woolwich terror attack.

Mr Cameron has been pictured soaking up the sunshine and sipping coffee with his
wife Samantha on holiday in Ibiza. The Prime Minister looks blissfully relaxed
during a 'few days break' taken with his family over the Bank Holiday weekend.

But Rose Gentle, whose son Gordon died in a bomb attack in Iraq in June 2004,
said his actions had been grossly insensitive.

Mrs Gentle, from Glasgow, said: 'It was absolutely the wrong decision to go.

'I have seen the pictures of him on holiday, sitting there, looking quite the
thing.

'He should be here, showing support for that family.

'I don't think he has handled the situation well at all. '

His decision to travel abroad came as the bereft family of executed soldier Lee
Rigby were making the heartbreaking trip to the spot he died.

Mrs Gentle added: 'Watching that poor mother brought it all back for me. I think
all of the families must have cried to see that.

'You just wanted to go down there and give them a hug. He should have cancelled
his holiday and be here supporting that poor family.'

Pte Gentle, was killed in Basra in June 2004 after a roadside bomb was detonated
while he was on patrol.

He had been serving with the Royal Highland Fusiliers and was killed just weeks
after completing his training.

Since his death Mrs Gentle has become an outspoken critic of the conflict.

Critics have slammed the Prime Minister for 'swanning off' to the Mediterranean.

But Downing Street maintains he is 'still in charge', and has brought a team of
staff with him as well as video conferencing facilities.

But this may not be a comfort to Drummer Rigby's family, who yesterday clung to
each other as they saw for the first time where the 25 year old was slaughtered
by Muslim fanatics.

His widow Rebecca, the mother of the soldier's two-year-old son Jack, made a
tearful pilgrimage to the scene of his murder and laid a wreath amid hundreds of
other floral tributes to her estranged husband.

She wrote on the card: 'My hero, my soldier, my one true love. Until we meet
again my angel I know you'll be watching over me and Jack. Love always xxx.'

Another card tucked inside the wreath read: 'For my daddy.'

Mrs Rigby, 30, sobbed and cradled a pink Peppa Pig soft toy as she pinned a
balloon with the words 'Dad in a million' close to the spot in Woolwich where
25-year-old Drummer Rigby was allegedly run over and then butchered by two
Islamic fanatics on Wednesday.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

A day earlier his the day after his fiancee Aimee West made the same
heartbreaking trip, who he is understood to have started a relationship with
after separating from his wife.

On Saturday, she wept as she set down a bouquet of roses at the scene of his
murder.

Mr Rigby's his devastated mother Lyn Rigby, 46, collapsed on the pavement and
wept violently as she joined her daughter-in-law at the scene.

Other relatives, including the soldier's stepfather Ian Rigby, 54, wrapped their
arms around her in a fruitless attempt to console her.

The family, from Middleton, Greater Manchester, visited the spot outside
Woolwich Barracks in south east London, where Drummer Rigby was based, shortly
before 12.40pm.

One of his sisters, Sara, left a frame which included four photographs of the
pair together, along with a bottle of HP sauce with a note saying 'Your
favourite.'

She wrote: 'My brother, my best friend. So sorry this had to be you. Sleep well.
Little sis, Sara xxxx.'

The heart-wrenching scenes were watched by hundreds of members of the public who
had also gone to pay their respects to the murdered soldier.

Machinegunner Rigby was hacked to death by two attackers in Woolwich, south-east
London on Wednesday at 2.20pm.

Michael Adebolajo, 28, and his alleged accomplice Michael Adebowale, 22, are
believed to have run down the off-duty British soldier with a Vauxhall Tigra as
he walked back to the Woolwich Barracks, crushing his body against a road sign.

Witnesses said the terror suspects then 'hacked and chopped' at his body like
'crazed animals', before dragging his corpse into the middle of the road leaving
a trail of blood.

As they apparently tried to decapitate him they were chanting: 'this is what God
would have wanted'.

QUESTIONS ABOUT WHAT CONTACT MI5 HAD WITH WOOLWICH SUSPECTS

MI5 sources have admitted that Woolwich murder suspects Michael Adebolajo, 28,
and Michael Adebowale, 22, were known to them, and Adebolajo had reportedly
appeared in 'several investigations' because of his links to various banned
groups.

But questions remain about what contact the security services had with
Adebolajo, and if it happened, when it happened.

A friend claimed last week that the alleged killer was asked to spy for MI5 in
late 2012.

Adebolajo is said to have bragged he was approached to turn informant six months
ago but refused.

Abu Nusaybah, who said he knew him for years, wrote on Twitter: 'Did u know­
Woolwich suspect Michael Adebolajo was approached by MI5 Just over 6months ago
to work as a Spy, he refused?'

But today it emerged that he may have been approached by spooks two years
earlier than first thought.

The Independent said that MI5 tried to recruit him while he was in jail in
Kenya, where he was allegedly mistreated over several days before being released
without charge.

Adebolajo's was heading with radicalised Muslims to Somalia to join with Al
Shabaab, which has links to Al Qaeda.

Only two months before, the then-head of MI5 Jonathan Evans had warned Britons
were training in Somalia and it was 'only a matter of time before we see
terrorism on our streets inspired by those who are today fighting alongside Al
Shabaab'.

This may add credence to the argument that the security services were keen to
gain access to extremists in the region.

A blood-soaked man believed to be Adebolajo, who was still holding a number of
weapons in his red-stained hands, then ranted on camera in a clear London
accent: 'You people will never be safe. An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.'

Within 20 minutes armed officers arrived and the fundamentalists charged at them
wielding firearms, knives and a machete.

Police opened fire, taking the pair down with up to eight bullets. The suspects
remain under armed guard in two separate London hospitals.

Anti-terror police in Kenya today accused the British of ignoring their warnings
that Woolwich murder suspect Michael Adebolajo was a dangerous radical.

Adebolajo was arrested in Kenya in 2010 on suspicion of leading a jihadist plot
to cross the border into lawless Somalia and join the ranks of the Al Shabaab
terrorist group.

But the Kenyans claim that when they presented their evidence to the British
Embassy, it was insisted Adebolajo had no criminal record.

The Independent also claims that MI5 tried to recruit him while he was in jail
in Kenya, where he was allegedly mistreated over several days before being
released without charge.

Meanwhile while the issue rages, controversially, Mr Cameron went on a
mid-morning flight on Saturday with his wife and their children Nancy, Elwen and
Florence to Ibiza.

The Prime Minister's family break trip came just three days after he chaired a
meeting of the Cabinet emergency committee Cobra to discuss the murder of Lee
Rigby.

Labour MP John Mann criticised Mr Cameron's trip, saying: 'It's the wrong time
to go on holiday. At the moment he ought to be at his desk.'

He added: 'It is dereliction of duty.

'He is paid to be Prime Minister and he needs to be here doing that.

'A lot of service families won't be able to have an additional holiday this week
and it is grossly insensitive for him to so.

'More importantly there is chaos in government over the extremism policy.

'It is insulting to the intelligence of the British people especially suggesting
he can run the country from a laptop on the beach.'

Labour MP Sarah Champion said Mr Cameron's decision to take a break showed he
was 'utterly out of touch.'

She said: 'While the country struggles to come to terms with the vile crime in
Woolwich, he has swanned off to Ibiza. The public deserve better.'

But Mr Cameron won some support for his decision to spend time with his family.

Labour's justice spokesman Sadiq Khan said: 'He's got the intelligence at his
finger-tips, he went to Cobra meetings, he knows the risks and the dangers. I'm
sure he's decided to go on holiday after taking all that into account.'

Even Tory rebel Nadine Dorries, who has been quick to condemn Mr Cameron in the
past, said: 'We've got the internet, we've got mobile phones. I think Cameron
could actually get back from Ibiza to London quicker than if he was in
Cornwall.'

A No 10 spokesman said: 'As always, whilst away, he remains in charge, and has
office support with him.'

The Prime Minister was ribbed over his leisure activities last year when an ally
was quoted in a biography as saying:

'If there was an Olympic gold medal for "chillaxing", he would win it. He is
capable of switching off in a way that almost no other politician I know of
can.'

Mr Cameron was warned yesterday that he has just 12 months to prove himself or
risk losing the support of Tory MPs.

In a coded warning that the Prime Minister could face a leadership challenge
next spring, David Ruffley warned the European elections in May 2014 could be a
'flashpoint'.

Mr Ruffley, the former shadow police minister, warned that losing to UKIP in the
Euro elections would cause up to 100 MPs in marginal seats to lose faith in Mr
Cameron.

And in a second challenge to Mr Cameron, UK Independence Party leader Nigel
Farage revealed that he is in talks with up to 20 Tory MPs about joining forces
at the next election.

Mr Farage also revealed that at least one Conservative MP has used a go-between
to discuss defecting to UKIP.

The UKIP leader said he was 'in talks all over the place' with 'about 20' Tory
MPs about standing on a joint ticket, and with Tory councillors who want to
defect.

VIDEO: DAVID CAMERON DEFENDED BY UNLIKELY ALLY

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 27, 2013 Monday 12:51 PM GMT

Fury as British PM flies to Ibiza for a sunshine break as grieving wife and
fiancée of terror attack soldier lay flowers at the scene of his murder

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1512 words



     ·    Camerons relaxed in sun at restaurant beside beach on three-day break
     ·    1,500 miles away the family of Lee Rigby visited spot where he died
     ·    PM widely criticised for taking holiday while Britain is on high
          terror alert
     ·    'The public deserve better from their prime Minister' says Labour MP
     ·    Downing Street says he is still 'in charge', brought staff and office
          facilities
     ·    Claims that suspect Michael Adebolajo was approached by MI5 in Kenya


Soaking up the sunshine and sipping coffee with his wife Samantha on holiday in
Ibiza, David Cameron looks blissfully relaxed during a 'few days break' taken
with his family over the Bank Holiday weekend.

But 1,500 miles away in Woolwich, with Britain in the grip of its biggest terror
crisis since 7/7, the bereft family of executed soldier Lee Rigby were making
the heartbreaking trip to the spot he died.

Critics have slammed the Prime Minister for 'swanning off' to the Mediterranean
but Downing Street maintains he is 'still in charge', has brought a team of
staff with him as well as video conferencing facilities.

But this may not be a comfort to Drummer Rigby's family, who yesterday clung to
eachother as they saw for the first time where the 25 year old was slaughtered
by Muslim fanatics.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

His widow Rebecca, the mother of the soldier's two-year-old son Jack, made a
tearful pilgrimage to the scene of his murder and laid a wreath amid hundreds of
other floral tributes to her estranged husband.

She wrote on the card: 'My hero, my soldier, my one true love. Until we meet
again my angel I know you'll be watching over me and Jack. Love always xxx.'

Another card tucked inside the wreath read: 'For my daddy.'

Mrs Rigby, 30, sobbed and cradled a pink Peppa Pig soft toy as she pinned a
balloon with the words 'Dad in a million' close to the spot in Woolwich where
25-year-old Drummer Rigby was allegedly run over and then butchered by two
Islamic fanatics on Wednesday.

A day earlier his the day after his fiancee Aimee West made the same
heartbreaking trip, who he is understood to have started a relationship with
after separating from his wife.

On Saturday, she wept as she set down a bouquet of roses at the scene of his
murder.

Mr Rigby's his devastated mother Lyn Rigby, 46, collapsed on the pavement and
wept violently as she joined her daughter-in-law at the scene.

Other relatives, including the soldier's stepfather Ian Rigby, 54, wrapped their
arms around her in a fruitless attempt to console her.

The family, from Middleton, Greater Manchester, visited the spot outside
Woolwich Barracks in south east London, where Drummer Rigby was based, shortly
before 12.40pm.

One of his sisters, Sara, left a frame which included four photographs of the
pair together, along with a bottle of HP sauce with a note saying 'Your
favourite.'

She wrote: 'My brother, my best friend. So sorry this had to be you. Sleep well.
Little sis, Sara xxxx.'

The heart-wrenching scenes were watched by hundreds of members of the public who
had also gone to pay their respects to the murdered soldier.

Machinegunner Rigby was hacked to death by two attackers in Woolwich, south-east
London on Wednesday at 2.20pm.

Michael Adebolajo, 28, and his alleged accomplice Michael Adebowale, 22, are
believed to have run down the off-duty British soldier with a Vauxhall Tigra as
he walked back to the Woolwich Barracks, crushing his body against a road sign.

Witnesses said the terror suspects then 'hacked and chopped' at his body like
'crazed animals', before dragging his corpse into the middle of the road leaving
a trail of blood.

As they apparently tried to decapitate him they were chanting: 'this is what God
would have wanted'.

QUESTIONS ABOUT WHAT CONTACT MI5 HAD WITH WOOLWICH SUSPECTS

MI5 sources have admitted that Woolwich murder suspects Michael Adebolajo, 28,
and Michael Adebowale, 22, were known to them, and Adebolajo had reportedly
appeared in 'several investigations' because of his links to various banned
groups.

But questions remain about what contact the security services had with
Adebolajo, and if it happened, when it happened.

A friend claimed last week that the alleged killer was asked to spy for MI5 in
late 2012.

Adebolajo is said to have bragged he was approached to turn informant six months
ago but refused.

Abu Nusaybah, who said he knew him for years, wrote on Twitter: 'Did u know­
Woolwich suspect Michael Adebolajo was approached by MI5 Just over 6months ago
to work as a Spy, he refused?'

But today it emerged that he may have been approached by spooks two years
earlier than first thought.

The Independent said that MI5 tried to recruit him while he was in jail in
Kenya, where he was allegedly mistreated over several days before being released
without charge.

Adebolajo's was heading with radicalised Muslims to Somalia to join with Al
Shabaab, which has links to Al Qaeda.

Only two months before, the then-head of MI5 Jonathan Evans had warned Britons
were training in Somalia and it was 'only a matter of time before we see
terrorism on our streets inspired by those who are today fighting alongside Al
Shabaab'.

This may add credence to the argument that the security services were keen to
gain access to extremists in the region.

A blood-soaked man believed to be Adebolajo, who was still holding a number of
weapons in his red-stained hands, then ranted on camera in a clear London
accent: 'You people will never be safe. An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.'

Within 20 minutes armed officers arrived and the fundamentalists charged at them
wielding firearms, knives and a machete.

Police opened fire, taking the pair down with up to eight bullets. The suspects
remain under armed guard in two separate London hospitals.

Anti-terror police in Kenya today accused the British of ignoring their warnings
that Woolwich murder suspect Michael Adebolajo was a dangerous radical.

Adebolajo was arrested in Kenya in 2010 on suspicion of leading a jihadist plot
to cross the border into lawless Somalia and join the ranks of the Al Shabaab
terrorist group.

But the Kenyans claim that when they presented their evidence to the British
Embassy, it was insisted Adebolajo had no criminal record.

The Independent also claims that MI5 tried to recruit him while he was in jail
in Kenya, where he was allegedly mistreated over several days before being
released without charge.

Meanwhile while the issue rages, controversially, Mr Cameron went on a
mid-morning flight on Saturday with his wife and their children Nancy, Elwen and
Florence to Ibiza.

The Prime Minister's family break trip came just three days after he chaired a
meeting of the Cabinet emergency committee Cobra to discuss the murder of Lee
Rigby.

Labour MP John Mann criticised Mr Cameron's trip, saying: 'It's the wrong time
to go on holiday. At the moment he ought to be at his desk.'

Labour MP Sarah Champion said Mr Cameron's decision to take a break showed he
was 'utterly out of touch.'

She said: 'While the country struggles to come to terms with the vile crime in
Woolwich, he has swanned off to Ibiza. The public deserve better.'

But Mr Cameron won some support for his decision to spend time with his family.

Labour's justice spokesman Sadiq Khan said: 'He's got the intelligence at his
finger-tips, he went to Cobra meetings, he knows the risks and the dangers. I'm
sure he's decided to go on holiday after taking all that into account.'

Even Tory rebel Nadine Dorries, who has been quick to condemn Mr Cameron in the
past, said: 'We've got the internet, we've got mobile phones. I think Cameron
could actually get back from Ibiza to London quicker than if he was in
Cornwall.'

A No 10 spokesman said: 'As always, whilst away, he remains in charge, and has
office support with him.'

The Prime Minister was ribbed over his leisure activities last year when an ally
was quoted in a biography as saying:

'If there was an Olympic gold medal for "chillaxing", he would win it. He is
capable of switching off in a way that almost no other politician I know of
can.'

Mr Cameron was warned yesterday that he has just 12 months to prove himself or
risk losing the support of Tory MPs.

In a coded warning that the Prime Minister could face a leadership challenge
next spring, David Ruffley warned the European elections in May 2014 could be a
'flashpoint'.

Mr Ruffley, the former shadow police minister, warned that losing to UKIP in the
Euro elections would cause up to 100 MPs in marginal seats to lose faith in Mr
Cameron.

And in a second challenge to Mr Cameron, UK Independence Party leader Nigel
Farage revealed that he is in talks with up to 20 Tory MPs about joining forces
at the next election.

Mr Farage also revealed that at least one Conservative MP has used a go-between
to discuss defecting to UKIP.

The UKIP leader said he was 'in talks all over the place' with 'about 20' Tory
MPs about standing on a joint ticket, and with Tory councillors who want to
defect.

VIDEO: DAVID CAMERON DEFENDED BY UNLIKELY ALLY

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 27, 2013 Monday 9:06 AM GMT

Is Ibiza chillaxed enough for you, Prime Minister? As grieving wife and fiancée
of terror attack soldier lay flowers at the scene of his murder, Cameron jets
off to Ibiza for a sunshine break

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 919 words



     ·    Camerons relaxed in sun at restaurant beside beach on three-day break
     ·    1,500 miles away the family of Lee Rigby visited spot where he died
     ·    PM widely criticised for taking holiday while Britain is on high
          terror alert
     ·    'The public deserve better from their prime Minister' says Labour MP
     ·    Downing Street says he is still 'in charge', brought staff and office
          facilities


Soaking up the sunshine and sipping coffee with his wife Samantha on holiday in
Ibiza, David Cameron looks blissfully relaxed during a 'few days break' taken
with his family over the Bank Holiday weekend.

But 1,500 miles away in Woolwich, with Britain in the grip of its biggest terror
crisis since 7/7, the bereft family of executed soldier Lee Rigby were making
the heartbreaking trip to the spot he died.

Critics have slammed the Prime Minister for 'swanning off' to the Mediterranean
but Downing Street maintains he is 'still in charge', has brought a team of
staff with him as well as video conferencing facilities.

But this may not be a comfort to Drummer Rigby's family, who yesterday clung to
eachother as they saw for the first time where the 25 year old was slaughtered
by Muslim fanatics.

His widow Rebecca, the mother of the soldier's two-year-old son Jack, made a
tearful pilgrimage to the scene of his murder and laid a wreath amid hundreds of
other floral tributes to her estranged husband.

She wrote on the card: 'My hero, my soldier, my one true love. Until we meet
again my angel I know you'll be watching over me and Jack. Love always xxx.'

Another card tucked inside the wreath read: 'For my daddy.'

Mrs Rigby, 30, sobbed and cradled a pink Peppa Pig soft toy as she pinned a
balloon with the words 'Dad in a million' close to the spot in Woolwich where
25-year-old Drummer Rigby was allegedly run over and then butchered by two
Islamic fanatics on Wednesday.

A day earlier his the day after his fiancee Aimee West made the same
heartbreaking trip, who he is understood to have started a relationship with
after separating from his wife. On Saturday, she wept as she set down a bouquet
of roses at the scene of his murder.

Mr Rigby's his devastated mother Lyn Rigby, 46, collapsed on the pavement and
wept violently as she joined her daughter-in-law at the scene.

Other relatives, including the soldier's stepfather Ian Rigby, 54, wrapped their
arms around her in a fruitless attempt to console her.

The family, from Middleton, Greater Manchester, visited the spot outside
Woolwich Barracks in south east London, where Drummer Rigby was based, shortly
before 12.40pm.

One of his sisters, Sara, left a frame which included four photographs of the
pair together, along with a bottle of HP sauce with a note saying 'Your
favourite.'

She wrote: 'My brother, my best friend. So sorry this had to be you. Sleep well.
Little sis, Sara xxxx.'

The heart-wrenching scenes were watched by hundreds of members of the public who
had also gone to pay their respects to the murdered soldier.

Meanwhile controversially Mr Cameron went on a mid-morning flight on Saturday
with his wife and their children Nancy, Elwen and Florence to Ibiza, It is
understood he will return later today.

The Prime Minister's family break trip came just three days after he chaired a
meeting of the Cabinet emergency committee Cobra to discuss the murder of Lee
Rigby.

Labour MP John Mann criticised Mr Cameron's trip, saying: 'It's the wrong time
to go on holiday. At the moment he ought to be at his desk.'

Labour MP Sarah Champion said Mr Cameron's decision to take a break showed he
was 'utterly out of touch.'

She said: 'While the country struggles to come to terms with the vile crime in
Woolwich, he has swanned off to Ibiza. The public deserve better.'

But Mr Cameron won some support for his decision to spend time with his family.

Labour's justice spokesman Sadiq Khan said: 'He's got the intelligence at his
finger-tips, he went to Cobra meetings, he knows the risks and the dangers. I'm
sure he's decided to go on holiday after taking all that into account.'

Even Tory rebel Nadine Dorries, who has been quick to condemn Mr Cameron in the
past, said: 'We've got the internet, we've got mobile phones. I think Cameron
could actually get back from Ibiza to London quicker than if he was in
Cornwall.'

A No 10 spokesman said: 'As always, whilst away, he remains in charge, and has
office support with him.'

The Prime Minister was ribbed over his leisure activities last year when an ally
was quoted in a biography as saying:

'If there was an Olympic gold medal for "chillaxing", he would win it. He is
capable of switching off in a way that almost no other politician I know of
can.'

Mr Cameron was warned yesterday that he has just 12 months to prove himself or
risk losing the support of Tory MPs.

In a coded warning that the Prime Minister could face a leadership challenge
next spring, David Ruffley warned the European elections in May 2014 could be a
'flashpoint'.

Mr Ruffley, the former shadow police minister, warned that losing to UKIP in the
Euro elections would cause up to 100 MPs in marginal seats to lose faith in Mr
Cameron.

And in a second challenge to Mr Cameron, UK Independence Party leader Nigel
Farage revealed that he is in talks with up to 20 Tory MPs about joining forces
at the next election.

Mr Farage also revealed that at least one Conservative MP has used a go-between
to discuss defecting to UKIP.

The UKIP leader said he was 'in talks all over the place' with 'about 20' Tory
MPs about standing on a joint ticket, and with Tory councillors who want to
defect.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 27, 2013 Monday 2:04 AM GMT

Bye bye Britain: Row as days after horrific terror attack and with his
leadership under siege from his own side, Cameron jets off to Ibiza for a
sunshine break

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 824 words



     ·    Couple have coffee and relax in the sun at restaurant beside beach
     ·    Comes days after soldier's killing and arrest of two suspected
          extremists
     ·    'The public deserve better from their prime Minister' says Labour MP
     ·    Cameron visited MI5 HQ to thank spies for work it was claimed last
          night
     ·    Up to four groups of MPs are said to be plotting about Mr Cameron's
          future
     ·    Tory donors threaten to abandon the Party and defect to UKIP
     ·    Poll backs Mr Cameron's handling of the horrifying incident in
          Woolwich
     ·    Backbencher says PM has got year to show that his EU strategy 'works'
     ·    David Ruffley says that Tories must prevent UKIP splitting their vote
     ·    'Around 20' Tory MPs willing to run in 2015 on joint ticket, Nigel
          Farage says


David Cameron has come under fire for jetting off to Ibiza on holiday while
Britain deals with a terror crisis.

The Prime Minister flew to the Mediterranean island on Saturday morning for a
half-term break with his wife Samantha and their three children.

Allies insisted he 'remains in charge' and said his holiday was justified since
he has urged others to carry on as normal in the wake of the murder of Lee
Rigby.

But the timing, just days after Drummer Rigby was killed, led to questions about
whether MrCameron had made the right decision.

MP for Bury St Edmunds, David Ruffley said today the Prime Minister has to win
the argument on the EU in the coming year or UKIP will split the Tory vote at
the European Elections in 12 months.

'I think next May's euro elections might put pressure on him to go harder
because there is a lot of speculation in and around Downing Street, so I am led
to believe, that UKIP might come first, ' he said.

'Now if that happens next May there'll be 12 months before the election and some
of our colleagues in marginal seats might get a bit windy.

'I don't think UKIP are going to win seats but they could split the Conservative
vote if they are very strong and let Labour through in those marginal seats.

'But I think David Cameron has got 12 months to show that his strategy works.'

Mr Cameron has also come under fire from backbencher Douglas Carswell, who
accused ministers of allowing civil servants to take over the Government.

He said: 'I think we need to actually take on the Mandarinate, who all too often
seem to be really running this government, and that is the fundamental problem.'

But Mr Carswell dismissed pressure for a leadership election, saying: 'It would
be extraordinarily disruptive.'

However, up to four groups of MPs are said to be plotting about Mr Cameron's
future. Allies of backbencher Adam Afriyie are urging him to make fresh
interventions to burnish his own leadership credentials.

Officials said a small number of Downing Street staff had travelled with Mr
Cameron and that he was able to hold regular video conference meetings with
Whitehall. The Prime Minister has not had a holiday since Christmas and has not
been abroad with his children since last summer.

He is expected to be away until the end of the week.

It comes amid Daily Telegraph claims that he visited MI5 HQ to thank spies for
their 'round-the-clock work' following the Woolwich murder despite concerns
there have been blunders on the part of the security services.

The Prime Minster went directly to the Security Service's headquarters after
visiting the scene of soldier Lee Rigby's death where he thanked the staff there
for their work on the case.

Sources told The Daily Telegraph that Cameron had made a mistake and could be
scene to be pre-judging the ISC report.

Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg is due to go away with his family next
weekend, while Labour leader Ed Miliband remains in the UK.

Labour MP John Mann criticised Mr Cameron's trip, saying: 'It's the wrong time
to go on holiday.

At the moment he ought to be at his desk.'

Labour MP Sarah Champion said Mr Cameron's decision to take a break showed he
was 'utterly out of touch.

She said: 'While the country struggles to come to terms with the vile crime in
Woolwich, he has swanned off to Ibiza. The public deserve better.'

But Mr Cameron won some support for his decision to spend time with his
family.Labour's justice spokesman Sadiq Khan said: 'He's got the intelligence at
his finger-tips, he went to Cobra meetings, he knows the risks and the dangers.

I'm sure he's decided to go on holiday after taking all that into account.'

Even Tory rebel Nadine Dorries, who has been quick to condemn Mr Cameron in the
past, said: 'We've got the internet, we've got mobile phones. I think Cameron
could actually get back from Ibiza to London quicker than if he was in
Cornwall.'

A No 10 spokesman said: 'As always, whilst away, he remains in charge, and has
office support with him.'

The Prime Minister was ribbed over his leisure activities last year when an ally
was quoted in a biography as saying: 'If there was an Olympic gold medal for
"chillaxing", he would win it. He is capable of switching off in a way that
almost no other politician I know of can.'

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 27, 2013 Monday 1:30 PM GMT

Paris police search for 'bearded man seen praying' before soldier attack;
Police in Paris have obtained video footage of a bearded man "praying" shortly
before he stabbed a French soldier in the neck, fuelling suspicions it was an
Islamist terror attack.

BYLINE: By Henry Samuel Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 445 words


The video appears to suggest that the Paris attack could be inspired by the
Islamist murder of a British serviceman in London .

Anti-terrorism investigators now say they have "high quality images" of a "tall,
athletic bearded man" aged about 30, possibly of North African origin, praying
near the spot where he attacked the 23-year-old soldier from behind with a knife
or a box-cutter on Saturday. He then fled into a crowded train station and is
still at large.

"He was filmed praying near where the attack took place. After the attack he can
be seen leaving the shopping centre of La Défense (business district)," a source
close the investigation told Le Parisien.

The soldier, Cédric Cordiez, survived the midafternoon attack and was discharged
from hospital this morning but is said to be "traumatised" by the stabbing. It
was carried out three days after a British soldier was murdered on a busy London
street by two men shouting Islamist slogans.

Manuel Valls, the French interior minister, said there are "elements that lead
us to believe it (the French attack) could be an act of terrorism" and that
police are now pursuing "serious leads".

"The photos have been shown to the other two soldiers who were on patrol with
the victim and the four witnesses present at the scene of the attack," said a
source close to the French investigation.

"They all recognised the author of the attack, who wasn't wearing a djellaba,
contrary what some people have said."

He was reportedly wearing a small hat and dark clothes.

Police are conducting DNA tests after finding a bag near the crime scene with a
box cutter, a sheath for a second knife, clothes and a half-finished bottle of
fruit juice.

Mr Cordiez told Le Parisien he felt "fine and it's nothing serious."

But the soldier's girlfriend, Aurélie, said he was in a state of shock and
bolted upright in his hospital bed when a nurse came in during the night,
convinced it was his attacker "come to finish the job".

"He is really lucky to be alive. Two centimetres further, and it would have been
his carotid (artery)," she said. "You'd expect this sort of thing if he was on a
mission to Mali (where French forces are fighting Islamists) but you don't
expect that in Paris."

France has been on high alert for attacks by Islamist militants since its
military intervention against Islamist rebels in Mali in January. That prompted
threats against French interests from AQIM, the North African wing of al Qaeda.

The latest warning was published on YouTube a few weeks before gunmen this week
attacked a military base and a French uranium extraction site in the central
African state of Niger, killing 24 soldiers and one civilian.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                        May 27, 2013 Monday 1:32 AM GMT

BILLY JOEL SANK INTO DEPRESSION AFTER 9/11 TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: MUSIC

LENGTH: 299 words


Singer BILLY JOEL struggled to concentrate after the 9/11 terrorist attacks
because he sank into a deep depression and constantly felt like he was in a
"mental fog".

Nearly 3,000 people were killed on 11 September, 2001, after hijackers crashed
two planes into the World Trade Center in New York City, sending the Piano Man
hitmaker into a deep downward spiral.

He was involved in three serious car accidents in just two years following the
tragedy, leading many to assume his drink problems were to blame - but the star,
who checked into rehab a short time later to conquer his issues, confesses many
of his struggles were compounded by depression.

Joel tells New York Times Magazine, "I went into a deep depression after 9/11.
9/11 just knocked the wind out of me, and I don't even know if I've recovered
from it. It really, really hurt man. And then there was a breakup with somebody,
and it took me a while to get me back on my feet again... I was kind of in a
mental fog, and it had nothing to do with the booze. My mind wasn't right. I
wasn't focused...

"The first accident, there was no booze involved. And I didn't hit a tree. It's
these really dark roads back up here at night. The car went off the road and
into a mud rut. I had been through a breakup and was really broken up about it,
and I decided I'm drinking too much. I should go to rehab, but people made a
connection, like, 'Oh, he went there because he was in a car accident from
drinking.' No.

"The second accident was over here on the way out of town. It's called Dead
Man's Curve, and it was black ice; that wasn't drinking, either. I went to rehab
in '05 because, when I was with Katie (Lee, ex-wife), she said, 'You're drinking
way too much.' I never had a D.U.I. in my life. That's another fallacy. Look at
the police records."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 28, 2013 Tuesday

Two Algerian soldiers wounded in terrorist attack on Bouira barracks

LENGTH: 113 words


Text of report by Algerian electronic daily Tout sur l'Algerie website on 27 May

Two soldiers were wounded in a terrorist attack using homemade mortars on
Saturday night into Sunday morning on a barracks in Djebahia 20 kilometres west
of Bouira, it was learned this Monday, 27 May, from local security sources.

The terrorist group, whose number is not known, bombarded those barracks at
about 2200 hours with two rockets, just one of which exploded, wounding two
among the soldiers, according to the same sources.

The National People's Army [APN] immediately launched a huge search operation
for the perpetrators of this attack.

Source: Tout sur l'Algerie website in French 27 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                        May 28, 2013 Tuesday 7:37 PM GMT

Terror officers probe prison attack

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 358 words


Counter-terrorism officers have been brought in to investigate an attack on two
prison officers at a maximum security jail.

A male warder was left with a broken cheekbone after being held hostage by three
male prisoners, two aged 25 and one aged 26, while a female prison officer
received minor injuries as she attempted to help her colleague.

The North East Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU) has been called in to lead the
investigation into the incident at HMP Full Sutton in Yorkshire amid reports
that the inmates were Muslims inspired by the murder of soldier Drummer Lee
Rigby.

A statement from the unit said: "Inquiries are ongoing to establish the
circumstances surrounding the incident. Given the potential nature of the
incident and the range of skills and expertise within the North East CTU, the
unit is leading the investigation at this time."

Both prison officers have received treatment for their injuries and have since
been discharged.

It was reported that the attack was masterminded by Muslim fanatic Parviz Khan,
who is serving a life sentence for plotting to behead a British soldier, but it
later emerged he is not an inmate at Full Sutton.

A Ministry of Justice spokesman said: "An incident involving three prisoners
took place at HMP Full Sutton on May 26 from 4.25pm and was successfully
resolved at 8.40pm after staff intervened. A police investigation is ongoing."

The attack comes amid increasing tensions in the wake of the brutal killing of
Drummer Rigby last week in Woolwich, in London. Fierce protests from differing
factions on the streets of London, attacks on mosques and vandalism against war
memorials have all been triggered by the horrifying incident.

Steve Gillan, general secretary of the Prison Officers Association (POA), said:
"The POA are aware of the attack on two prison officers at HMP Full Sutton.
Until the full facts of the incident are known, we do not wish to speculate or
indeed compromise an ongoing police investigation.

"We can confirm that officers sustained injuries and, had it not been for the
professionalism of prison officers dealing with this violent incident, the
outcome could have been worse."

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       May 28, 2013 Tuesday 11:56 AM GMT

Terror officers probe prison attack

LENGTH: 364 words


Counter-terrorism officers have been brought in to investigate an attack on two
prison officers at a maximum security jail.

A male warder was left with a broken cheekbone after being held hostage by three
male prisoners, two aged 25 and one aged 26, while a female prison officer
received minor injuries as she attempted to help her colleague.

The North East Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU) has been called in to lead the
investigation into the incident at HMP Full Sutton in Yorkshire amid reports
that the inmates were Muslims inspired by the murder of soldier Drummer Lee
Rigby.

A statement from the unit said: "Inquiries are ongoing to establish the
circumstances surrounding the incident. Given the potential nature of the
incident and the range of skills and expertise within the North East CTU, the
unit is leading the investigation at this time."

Both prison officers have received treatment for their injuries and have since
been discharged.

It was reported that the attack was masterminded by Muslim fanatic Parviz Khan,
who is serving a life sentence for plotting to behead a British soldier, but it
later emerged he is not an inmate at Full Sutton.

A Ministry of Justice spokesman said: "An incident involving three prisoners
took place at HMP Full Sutton on May 26 from 4.25pm and was successfully
resolved at 8.40pm after staff intervened. A police investigation is ongoing."

The attack comes amid increasing tensions in the wake of the brutal killing of
Drummer Rigby last week in Woolwich, in London. Fierce protests from differing
factions on the streets of London, attacks on mosques and vandalism against war
memorials have all been triggered by the horrifying incident.

Steve Gillan, general secretary of the Prison Officers Association (POA), said:
"The POA are aware of the attack on two prison officers at HMP Full Sutton.
Until the full facts of the incident are known, we do not wish to speculate or
indeed compromise an ongoing police investigation.

"We can confirm that officers sustained injuries and, had it not been for the
professionalism of prison officers dealing with this violent incident, the
outcome could have been worse."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              May 28, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror police investigate warder attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 88 words


ANTI-terror police are investigating after two prison warders were injured after
being taken hostage by three inmates at a maximum security jail. A male prison
officer suffered a broken cheekbone in the attack and a female suffered minor
injuries. The incident on Sunday at Full Sutton prison in East Yorkshire lasted
four hours. The jail holds a number of people convicted of terrorist offences.
The North-East Counter Terrorism Unit said two of the three suspects were aged
25 and the other 26.

MI5 faces probe by MPs Pages 6 & 7

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              May 28, 2013 Tuesday

National: Woolwich killing: Mosque is the target of multiple petrol bombs: Two
arrested after arson attack caught on CCTV: Attacks play into hands of
terrorists, says MP

BYLINE: Shiv Malik, Ben Quinn, Anne Czernik

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 640 words


The chairman of a mosque targeted by multiple petrol bombs, has described the
attack as attempted murder. The incident in Grimsby, Lincolnshire, the most
serious attack on Muslims since the killing of drummer Lee Rigby, comes at a
time of increased activity by far-right groups such as the English Defence
League.

A young family with two children were among a number of worshippers inside the
building praying on Sunday night when three petrol bombs were understood to have
been thrown through the entrance and fire exit.

Two men, aged 33 and 37, were arrested by police patrolling near the Grimsby
Islamic Cultural Centre. Security around the mosque had been stepped up after a
brick was thrown at it on Thursday.

The mosque's chairman, Diler Gharib, told the Grimsby Telegraph: "We had just
finished our prayers and were discussing how to thank our neighbours for the
support they have shown us over the past few days when we heard a bang and saw
fire coming under the door.

"I grabbed a fire extinguisher and put it out and then two more petrol bombs hit
the fire escape and the bin so I had to put those out too."

The mosque's imam, Ahmad Sabik, said: "The whole community is really shaken up
and there is damage to some of the walls on the inside of our mosque and to the
outside of the building because one of the bombs was put in a rubbish bin in the
car park."

CCTV footage showed three petrol bombs being thrown over the gate of the
building. "They obviously don't understand the reality of Islam and what we
believe in," Sabik said. "We are a religion of peace and we condemn the awful
attack on that young man in Woolwich."

Austin Mitchell, the Labour MP for Great Grimsby, said attacks on mosques and
other Islamic institutions were playing into the hands of terrorists who wanted
community conflict. Speaking to BBC Radio Humberside, Mitchell said: "These
idiots, whoever they are, are playing directly into the hand of the terrorists."

The Islamic centre in Grimsby is part of a complex that includes a mosque that
was targeted by youths last week.

Police said they had arrested 11 people who had been drinking at a nearby house
party when things got out of hand. Four 16-year-old boys and a 15-year-old boy
have been released on bail.

Humberside police said of messages on social media: "These messages appear to be
an attempt to incite trouble by posting messages inviting people to assemble and
cause trouble at particular locations. Those people should be aware that we are
monitoring these sites in Humberside."

In York, a mosque dealt with reports that it was going to be the focus of a
demonstration organised by a far-right movement - by inviting those taking part
in the protest in for tea and biscuits.

Around a half dozen people arrived for the protest. A St George's flag was
nailed to the wooden fence in front of the mosque. However, after members of the
group accepted an invitation into the mosque, tensions were rapidly defused over
tea and plates of custard creams, followed by an impromptu game of football.

Leanne Staven, who had come for the protest, said that she had not come to the
mosque to cause trouble but because "We need a voice". "I think white British
who have any concerns feel we can't speak freely," she said.

Mohammed el-Gomati, a York University lecturer, said: "There is the possibility
of having dialogue. Even the EDL who were having a shouting match started
talking and we found out that we share and are prepared to agree that violent
extremism is wrong. We have to start there."

Captions:

Rising tensions

Top: EDL supporters at yesterday's rally near Downing Street try to reach
anti-fascist protesters.

Above right, plastic sheeting covers graffiti on the RAF bomber command
memorial.

Top left, floral tributes near the spot where Lee Rigby was killed in Woolwich

Main photograph: Peter Macdiarmid

Getty

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        May 28, 2013 Tuesday 4:32 PM GMT

Woolwich terror attack: Help for Heroes rejects all donations linked to English
Defence League;
The leader of the far-right group, Stephen Yaxley-Lennon, had pledged to donate
money to the charity via a Just Giving page

BYLINE: John Hall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 356 words


Help for Heroes has said it will reject all donations linked to members of the
English Defence League in the wake of Drummer Lee Rigby's murder in Woolwich
last week.

Members of the far-right organisation chanted Drummer Rigby's name during a
protest at Downing Street yesterday, with its leader Stephen Yaxley-Lennon, also
known as Tommy Robinson, pledging to donate all money raised by a future
sponsored march to the charity.

A Just Giving donation page was subsequently set up by the EDL leader, but that
has since been closed down following conversations between Help for Heroes and
the website's administrators.

Over £3,300 had been pledged to the page before it was removed, much of that
money coming after Robinson's announcement of a sponsored 17-mile, English
Defence League-affiliated walk from Westminster to the scene of Drummer Rigby's
murder in Woolwich.

Speaking to Sky News' Sunrise programme, Help for Heroes founder Bryn Parry
said: "We are a non-political organisation and we do not knowingly accept any
money from any organisation that could be considered extreme."

In a separate announcement, Help for Heroes said the aforementioned donations
would be refunded, adding the charity will be carrying out further checks to
ensure it is not receiving money from other people or groups linked to the
English Defence League.

Mr Yaxley-Lennon said he was "saddened and gutted" by Help for Heroes decision
to reject EDL-linked donations but said he would complete his "protest walk"
regardless.

He told Sky News: I'm shocked that political correctness has managed to find its
way to the top of one of our armed forces charities."

Drummer Rigby was wearing a Help for Heroes t-shirt when he was brutally
murdered, and the charity has been flooded with donations in the week since he
was killed.

Two suspects, Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale, remain under arrest at
separate London hospitals after being shot by police at the scene where Drummer
Rigby was hit by a car before being stabbed and hacked to death with knives and
meat cleavers.

A total of 10 people have now been arrested and questioned by police over the
killing.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 28, 2013 Tuesday 11:57 PM GMT

Royal Navy and the Army warn cadets not to wear uniforms on the streets over
terrorist attack fears

BYLINE: IAN DRURY and JAYA NARAIN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 476 words



     ·    Troops in Lancashire take decision as it is 'better safe than sorry'
     ·    Army and Navy Cadets asked to cover their uniform or change at
          meetings


Military cadets have been banned from wearing uniforms on the streets in case
they are targeted by terrorists.

Teenage Navy and Army cadets were told to either cover up their fatigues when
walking to meetings or to change when they arrived.

Former soldiers said the order was 'sad' but acknowledged that fanatics intent
on attack 'would not see a child, they would just see a uniform'.

Defence chiefs sent out guidance nationally following the murder of soldier Lee
Rigby, 25, who was hacked to death in the street near his  barracks in Woolwich,
south-east London, last Wednesday. Drummer Rigby was wearing a Help for Heroes
sweatshirt when he was killed.

Initial instructions from the Ministry of Defence to commanders said troops and
cadets should be 'advised to maintain a low public profile; uniforms should be
concealed while in a public place, particularly when travelling alone or from
home to unit'.

Prime Minister David Cameron contradicted the guidance the following day when he
insisted the 'best way to defeat terrorism is to go about their lives as
normal'. But in a string of places - especially those with large Muslim
populations - the leaders of cadet detachments are exercising caution.

Cadets in Blackburn, Accrington and Burnley have all been ordered not to wear
uniforms outside their bases. It is understood cadets in Bradford and Leeds have
followed suit.

Mark Thompson, Officer in Charge of Accrington Sea Cadets - a town which has an
Asian population of 10 per cent - said they had been advised to take precautions
by the Royal Navy.

He said: 'The safety of the cadets is paramount and when it comes to children,
basically it is "better safe than sorry". Our detachment received an email from
the Royal Navy advising our cadets to wear something on top to cover up their
uniform when out and about. This is the advice we have passed on to our cadets.'

Marilyn Gregson, whose 16-year-old son Hadyn is in the Army Cadet Force in
Blackburn - where 20 per cent of the town is Asian - said: 'I am just stunned
that it has come to this.

'While I am not sorry the cadets are taking precautions, you would think cadets
could wear their uniform with pride in their own country. Though it is
necessary, it is just awful that our cadets don't feel safe on the streets.'

Keith Shepherd, founder of soldiers' charity Salute, said: 'This sort of
precaution was common practice when I served in Northern Ireland and we were not
allowed to wear our uniforms on the streets.

'A terrorist would not see a child, they would just see a uniform. It is a sad
state of affairs.'

An MoD spokesman said: 'We have not issued any orders for cadets not to wear
their uniforms - it is a matter for individual detachments to decide.'

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 28, 2013 Tuesday 3:40 PM GMT

Cadets told not to wear uniforms on the streets over terrorist attack fears

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 605 words



     ·    Troops in Lancashire take decision as it is 'better safe than sorry'
     ·    Army and Navy Cadets asked to cover their uniform or change at
          meetings


Military cadets have been ordered not to wear uniforms on the streets because
they could be targeted by terrorists.

Experts have said today that fanatics 'would not see a child, they would just
see a uniform'.

Navy and army cadets in Blackburn, Accrington and Burnley have been told to
either cover their uniform when walking to cadet detachments, or to change when
they arrive.

The move follows the murder of soldier Lee Rigby in south east London last
Wednesday.

Drummer Rigby, from 2nd Battalion, The Royal Regiment of Fusiliers, was wearing
a Help for Heroes sweatshirt when he was hacked to death in a Woolwich street.

Two suspects were shot and arrested at the scene and are still in police
custody.

Officer in Charge of Accrington Sea Cadets Mark Thompson said sea cadet forces
in the Lancashire had received Royal Navy advice to take precautions.

He said: 'The safety of the cadets is paramount and when it comes to children,
basically it is better safe than sorry.

'Rightly or wrongly when a cadet is in a uniform, sometimes the uniform is more
conspicuous than the age of the person wearing it. Who is to say whether they
are a cadet or a serving member of the forces?

'Our detachment received an email from the Royal Navy advising our cadets to
wear something on top to cover up their uniform when out and about. This is the
advice we have passed on to our cadets. We work very closely with the forces and
take their advice on these matters.

'It is an age old issue and in the early eighties when the IRA threat was high
we were similarly instructed then.'

Following the attack on Drummer Rigby, London military personnel were told not
to wear their uniforms off base although this was later relaxed.

During the height of the IRA attacks on the British mainland in the 1970s and
80s members of the armed forces were not allowed to wear their uniforms when off
duty.

Marilyn Gregson, from Blackburn, whose 16-year-old son Hadyn is in the Blackburn
Army Cadet Force said she was shocked when she was advised it was not safe for
him to wear his uniform.

She said: 'My son was told not to wear his uniform on the streets but to change
when he got there instead.

'I am just stunned that it has come to this because it is such a sad state of
affairs. While I am not sorry the cadets are taking precautions, you would think
that cadets could wear their uniform with pride in their own country.

'Hadyn wants to be a marine or go into the police force. He is proud of his
uniform and we are proud for him to wear it. Though it is necessary it is just
awful that our cadets don't feel safe on the streets.'

Fulwood Barracks, which oversees the army cadet detachments for Blackburn,
Barnoldswick, Chorley, Brierfield, Accrington, Burnley, Haslingden, Clitheroe
and Rishton, confirmed cadets had been advised not to wear their uniform,
although this was later rescinded and it was now a matter for individual groups.

An MoD spokesman said: 'We have not issued any orders for cadets not to wear
their uniforms - it is a matter for individual detachments to decide on for
themselves.'

Hyndburn conservative leader Peter Britcliffe said: 'It is a very sad situation
when cadets can't be proud of their uniform on the streets of their own
country.'

Founder of soldiers charity Salute Keith Shepherd and chairman of Burnley and
District Ex Services Club said: 'The fact is that not every cadet looks their
age, particularly teenagers. A terrorist would not see a child, they would just
see a uniform.'

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        May 28, 2013 Tuesday 2:49 PM GMT

Terror police investigate prison warder attack after Muslim inmates were 'asked
to pray for murdered Lee Rigby'

BYLINE: DANIEL MILLER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 612 words



     ·    Terrified warder was 'locked in a cleaning room and beaten senseless'
     ·    Captive told he was 'going to die and have toilet cleaner poured in
          his eyes'
     ·    Freed by prison's riot squad and taken to hospital with serious
          injuries
     ·    Attack raisesconcerns about spread of radical Islam in Britain's
          prisons
     ·    Investigation has been taken over by North East Counter Terrorism Unit


Counter-terrorism police are investigating a brutal attack by three Muslim
inmates on a prison warder after an imam reportedly called on them to pray for
murdered soldier Lee Rigby.

The trio snatched the warder from E-wing at Full Sutton prison, near York, and
held him hostage during a four-hour stand-off with guards.

The terrified victim, who is in his 30s, was locked in a cleaning room where he
was apparently beaten with mop handles and told he was going to die.

The prison's National Tactical Response Group were called and eventually managed
to free him and he was taken to hospital with serious injuries.

A prison source told the Daily Mirror: 'The fear was that the gang had somehow
got hold of knives from the prison kitchen and they would attempt to behead him.

'By the time the attack finished the officer was covered in bruises and blood.
He feels very lucky to be alive. He was told they would kill him.'

The investigation into the attack has been taken over by West Yorkshire police's
North East Counter Terrorism Unit (NECTU).

A spokeswoman for NECTU said: 'Two prison officers, one male and one female,
sustained injuries as a result of the incident.

'The female prison officer received only minor injuries and the male prison
officer received a broken cheekbone.

'Both have received treatment for their injuries and have since been discharged.

'Given the potential nature of incident and the range of skills and expertise
within the North East CTU, the Unit is leading the investigation at this time.'

The three prisoners, two aged 25 and the other 26, were thought to have become
enraged following a prison imam's call for Muslim inmates to pray for soldier
Lee Rigby, who was stabbed to death by extremists last week.

The warder hostage was said to have been battered senseless by the gang who
threatened to pour caustic toilet cleaner in his eyes.

Prison authorities were reportedly concerned that they had managed to get hold
of knives from the kitchens which they would use to behead their captive.

Michael Spurr, chief executive of the National Offender Management Service,
confirmed the prison officer was forcibly taken hostage by three prisoners.

He said: 'This was a serious incident and my first thought is with the officer
who was taken hostage - we will do all we can to help him recover from this
experience.

'I want to commend all staff involved for their great courage and
professionalism.'

Full Sutton Prison houses dozens of extremist prisoners and there has been
recent concern about the spread of radical Islam behind its walls.

In March inspectors warned about growing tensions at the prison.

In 2009 an escape plot was uncovered which involved hi-jacking a helicopter and
landing it in the prison grounds to free nine Muslim inmates.

Yesterday tensions were inflamed further after Islamic graffiti was daubed over
war memorials.

There have been several attacks on mosques including an arson attack at an
Islamic Cultural centre in Grimsby.

Ten people have now been held for questioning in connection with the murder of
Drummer Lee Rigby who was attacked on a street in Woolwich, London.

Suspects Michael Adebolajo, 28, and Michaeal Adebolwale, 22, are in hospital
after being shot by police at the scene.

Officers have said they will not be questioned until they have recovered from
their injuries.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 28, 2013 Tuesday 11:46 AM GMT

Terror police investigate prison warder attack after jailed Muslim extremists
were 'asked to pray for murdered Lee Rigby'

BYLINE: DANIEL MILLER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 572 words



     ·    Terrified warder was 'locked in a cleaning room and beaten senseless'
     ·    Captive told he was 'going to die and have toilet cleaner poured in
          his eyes'
     ·    Freed by prison's riot squad and taken to hospital with serious
          injuries
     ·    Attack raisesconcerns about spread of radical Islam in Britain's
          prisons
     ·    Investigation has been taken over by North East Counter Terrorism Unit


Counter-terrorism police are investigating a brutal attack by three jailed
Islamic extremists on a prison warder after an imam reportedly called on them to
pray for murdered soldier Lee Rigby.

The trio snatched the warder from E-wing at Full Sutton prison, near York, and
held him hostage during a four-hour stand-off with guards.

The terrified victim, who is in his 30s, was locked in a cleaning room where he
was apparently beaten with mop handles and told he was going to die.

The prison's National Tactical Response Group were called and eventually managed
to free him and he was taken to hospital with serious injuries.

A prison source told the Daily Mirror: 'The fear was that the gang had somehow
got hold of knives from the prison kitchen and they would attempt to behead him.

'By the time the attack finished the officer was covered in bruises and blood.
He feels very lucky to be alive. He was told they would kill him.'

The investigation into the attack has been taken over by West Yorkshire police's
North East Counter Terrorism Unit (NECTU).

A spokeswoman for NECTU said: 'Two prison officers, one male and one female,
sustained injuries as a result of the incident.

'The female prison officer received only minor injuries and the male prison
officer received a broken cheekbone.

'Both have received treatment for their injuries and have since been discharged.

'Given the potential nature of incident and the range of skills and expertise
within the North East CTU, the Unit is leading the investigation at this time.'

The three prisoners, two aged 25 and the other 26, were thought to have become
enraged following a prison imam's call for Muslim inmates to pray for soldier
Lee Rigby, who was stabbed to death by extremists last week.

A Prison Service spokesman confirmed that three prisoners were involved in an
incident on Sunday and said that 'a police investigation is ongoing'.

The warder hostage was said to have been battered senseless by the gang who
threatened to pour caustic toilet cleaner in his eyes.

Prison authorities were reportedly concerned that they had managed to get hold
of knives from the kitchens which they would use to behead their captive.

Full Sutton Prison houses dozens of extremist prisoners and there has been
recent concern about the spread of radical Islam behind its walls.

In March inspectors warned about growing tensions at the prison.

In 2009 an escape plot was uncovered which involved hi-jacking a helicopter and
landing it in the prison grounds to free nine Muslim inmates.

Yesterday tensions were inflamed further after Islamic graffiti was daubed over
war memorials.

There have been several attacks on mosques including an arson attack at an
Islamic Cultural centre in Grimsby.

Ten people have now been held for questioning in connection with the murder of
Drummer Lee Rigby who was attacked on a street in Woolwich, London.

Suspects Michael Adebolajo, 28, and Michaeal Adebolwale, 22, are in hospital
after being shot by police at the scene.

Officers have said they will not be questioned until they have recovered from
their injuries.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              May 28, 2013 Tuesday

Anti-terror probe launched into Yorkshire jail attack

SECTION: BRITAIN

LENGTH: 133 words


A male warder was left with a broken cheekbone after being held hostage by three
male prisoners, while a female prison officer received minor injuries as she
attempted to help her colleague. The North East Counter Terrorism Unit has been
called in to lead the investigation into the incident at HMP Full Sutton in
Yorkshire. A Ministry of Justice spokesman said: "An incident involving three
prisoners took place at HMP Full Sutton on May 26 from 4.25pm and was
successfully resolved at 8.40pm after staff intervened. A police investigation
is ongoing." Prison Officers Association general secretary Steve Gillan said:
"We can confirm that officers sustained injuries and, had it not been for the
professionalism of prison officers dealing with this violent incident, the
outcome could have been worse."

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2013 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                              May 28, 2013 Tuesday

Counter terrorism unit investigates attack on prison officer at North jail

BYLINE: Joe Willis

SECTION: NEWS:

LENGTH: 282 words


THE North East Counter Terrorism Unit has taken over control of the
investigation into an attack on a prison officer at a maximum security jail near
York.

The officer was attacked by three inmates at HMP Full Sutton, the Ministry of
Justice (MoJ) confirmed this morning.

The warden was reportedly stabbed during a four-hour stand-off on Sunday.

An MoJ spokesman said: "An incident involving three prisoners took place at HMP
Full Sutton on 26 May from 4.25pm and was successfully resolved at 8.40pm after
staff intervened.

"A police investigation is ongoing."

Newspaper reports today claimed the attack was masterminded by the Muslim
fanatic Parviz Khan, who is serving life a sentence for plotting to behead a
British soldier, but a source said he was not being held at Full Sutton.

The Prison Officers Association is planning to send a national representative to
Full Sutton today to look into the incident, saying it would not comment further
until more facts emerged but it had received conflicting reports about how many
officers were involved and the extent of their injuries.

According to reports, the trio snatched the warder from E-wing and held him
hostage before stabbing him during a stand-off with guards.

The terrified victim, who is in his 30s, was locked in a cleaning room where he
was also apparently beaten with mop handles and told he was going to die.

The prison's National Tactical Response Group were called and eventually managed
to free him and he was taken to hospital with serious injuries.

It has been claimed the three prisoners became enraged following a prison imam's
call for Muslim inmates to pray for soldier Lee Rigby, who was stabbed to death
by extremists last week.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS



           PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: YORKS AND HUMBER

                       May 28, 2013 Tuesday 11:31 AM BST

TERROR OFFICERS PROBE PRISON ATTACK

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 359 words


Counter-terrorism officers have been brought in to investigate an attack on two
prison officers at a maximum security jail in Yorkshire.

A male warder was left with a broken cheekbone after being held hostage by three
male prisoners, two aged 25 and one aged 26, while a female prison officer
received minor injuries as she attempted to help her colleague.

The North East Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU) has been called in to lead the
investigation into the incident at HMP Full Sutton amid reports that the inmates
were Muslims inspired by the murder of soldier Drummer Lee Rigby.

A statement from the unit said: ``Inquiries are ongoing to establish the
circumstances surrounding the incident. Given the potential nature of the
incident and the range of skills and expertise within the North East CTU, the
unit is leading the investigation at this time.''

Both prison officers have received treatment for their injuries and have since
been discharged.

It was reported that the attack was masterminded by Muslim fanatic Parviz Khan,
who is serving a life sentence for plotting to behead a British soldier, but it
later emerged he is not an inmate at Full Sutton.

A Ministry of Justice spokesman said: ``An incident involving three prisoners
took place at HMP Full Sutton on May 26 from 4.25pm and was successfully
resolved at 8.40pm after staff intervened. A police investigation is ongoing.''

The attack comes amid increasing tensions in the wake of the brutal killing of
Drummer Rigby last week in Woolwich, in London.

Fierce protests from differing factions on the streets of London, attacks on
mosques and vandalism against war memorials have all been triggered by the
horrifying incident.

Steve Gillan, general secretary of the Prison Officers Association (POA), said:
``The POA are aware of the attack on two prison officers at HMP Full Sutton.

``Until the full facts of the incident are known, we do not wish to speculate or
indeed compromise an ongoing police investigation.

``We can confirm that officers sustained injuries and, had it not been for the
professionalism of prison officers dealing with this violent incident, the
outcome could have been worse.'' end

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2013 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       May 28, 2013 Tuesday 11:28 AM BST

TERROR OFFICERS PROBE PRISON ATTACK

BYLINE: Jamie Grierson and James Edgar, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 437 words


Counter-terrorism officers have been brought in to investigate an attack on two
prison officers at a maximum security jail.

A male warder was left with a broken cheekbone after being held hostage by three
male prisoners, two aged 25 and one aged 26, while a female prison officer
received minor injuries as she attempted to help her colleague.

The North East Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU) has been called in to lead the
investigation into the incident at HMP Full Sutton in Yorkshire amid reports
that the inmates were Muslims inspired by the murder of soldier Drummer Lee
Rigby.

A statement from the unit said: ``Inquiries are ongoing to establish the
circumstances surrounding the incident. Given the potential nature of the
incident and the range of skills and expertise within the North East CTU, the
unit is leading the investigation at this time.''

Both prison officers have received treatment for their injuries and have since
been discharged.

It was reported that the attack was masterminded by Muslim fanatic Parviz Khan,
who is serving a life sentence for plotting to behead a British soldier, but it
later emerged he is not an inmate at Full Sutton.

A Ministry of Justice spokesman said: ``An incident involving three prisoners
took place at HMP Full Sutton on May 26 from 4.25pm and was successfully
resolved at 8.40pm after staff intervened. A police investigation is ongoing.''

The attack comes amid increasing tensions in the wake of the brutal killing of
Drummer Rigby last week in Woolwich, in London.

Fierce protests from differing factions on the streets of London, attacks on
mosques and vandalism against war memorials have all been triggered by the
horrifying incident.

Steve Gillan, general secretary of the Prison Officers Association (POA), said:
``The POA are aware of the attack on two prison officers at HMP Full Sutton.

``Until the full facts of the incident are known, we do not wish to speculate or
indeed compromise an ongoing police investigation.

``We can confirm that officers sustained injuries and, had it not been for the
professionalism of prison officers dealing with this violent incident, the
outcome could have been worse.''

Michael Spurr, chief executive of the National Offender Management Service,
confirmed the prison officer was forcibly taken hostage by three prisoners - but
none of them are serving sentences for terror-related offences.

He said: ``This was a serious incident and my first thought is with the officer
who was taken hostage - we will do all we can to help him recover from this
experience.

``I want to commend all staff involved for their great courage and
professionalism.''

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2013 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 28, 2013 Tuesday 12:02 PM GMT

Spies only have 'very limited' access to terrorist data, says Sir Malcolm
Rifkind;
Spies only have "very limited" access to the communications of terrorists and
need more powers to stop attacks like the murder of a soldier in Woolwich, Sir
Malcolm Rifkind has said.

BYLINE: By Rowena Mason Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 446 words


Speaking on BBC head of the Intelligence and Security Committee appeared to give
his backing to a revised Communications Data Bill, known by some as the
snoopers' charter.

The Bill proposed by Theresa May, the Home Secretary, was blocked by the Liberal
Democrats over fears it could infringe on personal freedoms but it may now be
revived to help agencies like MI5 combat Islamic extremism. Debate over the
issue has re-ignited in light of last week's killing of drummer Lee Rigby in
Woolwich.

Sir Malcolm, a former Cabinet minister, today said the Bill is "highly relevant
to the battle against terrorism".

"I mentioned that we'd had a substantial number of terrorism cases which were
frustrated by the intelligence agencies and by the police. In almost all those
cases communications data was used," he said.

"When the legislation was passed at that time you did not have so many of the
new forms and ways in which people communicate with each other either on the
internet or through social messaging and things of that kind. The issue here is
about communications data, that's not the content of people's messages but who
called whom, where were they when they made those calls."

Last year, Sir Malcolm's committee said new laws were an "appropriate" way to
help security services gather more data, but said it needed more work to stop
the powers being misused in future.

Today, he said agencies like MI5 need more information on social networking
messages used by terrorists to get around the current laws.

"The issue is essentially social messaging, various aspects of the internet do
not come under the current legislation," he said. "The terrorists are sometime
very stupid and are sometimes quite smart. They know very well what the limits
are at the moment and there is evidence that increasingly extremists,
terrorists, criminals are using social messaging on those parts of the internet
that cannot be intercepted."

His comments come after the Daily Telegraph revealed civil servants are working
on a new compromise plan to introduce elements of the failed Bill without the
need for new legislation to avoid a Commons showdown.

A team led by Cabinet secretary Sir Jeremy Heywood is examining whether they can
bring in a large number of the proposed changes using existing laws. This would
get around the need for a divisive vote in parliament which Liberal Democrat MPs
would oppose.

Telecommunications companies already have to keep a certain amount of detail
about phone calls for up to a year before destroying the data.

One idea is for the companies to be forced to collect additional information,
such as address details of Skype phone calls and email addresses.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 28, 2013 Tuesday 11:53 AM GMT

Terror police called in after prison warden stabbed in attack 'inspired by
Woolwich murder';
Counter-terrorism police are investigating an attack on a prison warden by
alleged fanatical Islamic inmates believed to have been inspired by the Woolwich
murder of Drummer Lee Rigby.

BYLINE: By Rosa Silverman and Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 351 words


Three prisoners were reported to have held the warden, who suffered a fractured
cheekbone, hostage before stabbing him during a four-hour stand-off with guards
on Sunday afternoon.

The attack at Full Sutton prison in East Yorkshire was said to have left the
officer "badly shaken", while a female prison guard was also understood to have
been injured as she tried to intervene.

The incident reportedly took place after a prison imam called for inmates to
pray for Drummer Rigby.

The North East Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU) has been called in to lead the
investigation.

A spokesman said: "Inquiries are ongoing to establish the circumstances
surrounding the incident. Given the potential nature of the incident and the
range of skills and expertise within the North East CTU, the unit is leading the
investigation at this time."

A source told The Sun : "This had all the hallmarks of a pre-planned attack
inspired by the Woolwich atrocity.

"It's something officials have been fearing could happen for years and now it
finally has.

"The officer was frankly lucky to survive. The attack was brutal."

The warden, said to be in his 30s, was reportedly set upon near the kitchens of
the jail's E Wing.

A Ministry of Justice (MoJ) spokesman said: "An incident involving three
prisoners took place at HMP Full Sutton on 26 May from 4.25pm and was
successfully resolved at 8.40pm after staff intervened.

"A police investigation is ongoing."

The MoJ would not comment on reports that the attackers were Islamic extremists.

Drummer Rigby was hacked to death in the street in Woolwich, south east London,
last week.

Two suspected Islamist terrorists, Michael Adebowale, 22, and Michael Adebolajo,
28, are accused of his murder.

In 2009, nine prisoners, including some terrorists, were caught planning to
escape from Full Sutton in a hijacked helicopter.

Last year's annual report on Full Sutton by the Independent Monitoring Board
said the prison had seen an increase in Muslim prisoners and referred to
"tensions between them and other prisoners."

More than a fifth (22%) of the prison's inmates in 2012 were Muslims.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                       May 28, 2013 Tuesday 10:54 PM  EST

FOREIGN OFFICE MINISTER CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACKS IN BAGHDAD

LENGTH: 229 words


LONDON, May 28 -- The United Kingdom Foreign & Commonwealth Office issued the
following press release:

Middle East and North AfricaMinister:Alistair Burt MPWorld location:Iraq

Alistair Burt: Terrorism has no place in Iraq's future. UK will continue to
support those building a democratic, stable & prosperous Iraq

Speaking after a series of bombings in the Iraqi capital, Foreign Office
Minister Alistair Burt said:

I am deeply saddened by yesterday's terrorist attacks in Baghdad, which
indiscriminately killed and injured dozens of civilians, including young
children. The British Government utterly condemns these attacks, which follow a
number of horrific incidents across Iraq in recent weeks.

Terrorism has no place in Iraq's future. All parties in Iraq should stand united
against it. Last week I spoke to Foreign Minister Zebari to discuss the latest
events and to offer my condolences for the recent violence.

It is important that alongside tackling terrorism, the Government of Iraq
engages in genuine political dialogue that can address legitimate grievances, to
prevent extremists from exploiting tensions within the country. The UK will
continue to support Iraqis' efforts to build a country that is democratic,
stable and prosperous. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2013 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 29, 2013 Wednesday

Syrian cabinet raps "terrorist attack" which killed journalist in Al-Qusayr

LENGTH: 476 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

May 29, 2013

Damascus, (SANA) - The Cabinet condemned on Tuesday the "coward attack committed
by the armed terrorist groups against the national media," which caused the
martyrdom of journalist Yara Abbas near al-Dabaa Airport in al-Qusayr
countryside.

In its weekly meeting, the cabinet stressed that this terrorist attack is aimed
at terrorizing the employees of the national media which represents the essence
of nationalism, humanity, morality and credibility through conveying the truth
and exposing the lies of the misleading media outlets.

The cabinet expressed appreciation of the "distinguished role of the national
media outlets in defying terrorism and refuting the fabrications of foreign
media."

Prime Minister, Dr Wael al-Halqi, reviewed the activities of the cabinet during
the past week, stressing that the priority of the government in this stage is
developing the financial sources, rationing the public spending, combating
corruption and tackling all aspects of administrative bureaucracy.

The Prime Minister pointed out to the latest meetings of the committees formed
by the cabinet, particularly the economic committee, expressing satisfaction
over the economic procedures made to develop the national economy.

Deputy Prime Minister, Foreign and Expatriates Minister, Walid al-Mu'allim,
briefed the cabinet on the latest developments on the Arab and international
arenas, pointing out to his successful visit to Iraq and its role in the joint
coordination between the two countries.

Al-Mu'allim pointed out to the visit paid by Deputy Foreign and Expatriates
Minister, Faysal al-Miqdad, to Russia and its role in consolidating the
bilateral cooperation and Russia's emphasis on its firm stances on the events in
Syria and commitment to accomplishing the political programme to resolve the
crisis in Syria with no foreign interference.

Minister of Presidential Affairs, Mansur Azzam, reviewed the outcome of his
visit to Tehran along with the accompanying delegation and its positive results
on the economic and development levels.

Minister of Health, Sa'd al-Nayif, talked about Syria's participation in the
66th session of the World Health Assembly in Geneva as he pointed out to the
deteriorating health conditions of the Syrian people in the occupied Syrian
Golan.

The cabinet approved a bill aimed at achieving social stability for citizens and
developing investment in agriculture through allowing the Ministry of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform to sell leased lands to the farmers according to
specific rules.

The cabinet also approved a bill to amend some articles of the law regulating
the profession of currency exchange and another bill on regulating licenses to
establishing security companies.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0000 gmt 29 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 29, 2013 Wednesday

Pakistan's northwest Swat valley faces new wave of terror attacks

LENGTH: 422 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper The Nation website on 29 May

Swat: A roadside bomb wounded a peace committee leader and his spouse and killed
his son in Swat valley here on Tuesday [28 May] morning, security officials
said.

Swat valley has again come under a grip of terror wave with a number of peace
activists and security officials killed in as many days.

The latest attack came when peace committee member and PML-N [Pakistan Muslim
League-Nawaz] leader Mian Sher Ali along with his family was on his to attend
funeral of Deputy Superintendent of Police Bahadur Khan who was killed in a
bombing in Shangla area on Monday.

Security officials said Sher Alia car was hit by an improvised explosive device,
wounding everyone on board. Sher Ali and his spouse received minor injuries but
their son Barkat Ali expired during treatment at Saidu Sharif Hospital as he was
fatally wounded in the attack.

After the incident, security forces and police rushed and cordoned off the area.
Tension simmered in the entire valley following the news of the blast.

Earlier on 16 May, head of Damghar Peace Committee and his bodyguard were killed
by unidentified gunmen in broad daylight in Mingora city. Shah Dawran along with
his bodyguard, Amanullah, was heading towards his home when two unidentified
attackers opened fire on him in a heavy police presence. Shah Dawran was uncle
of Afzal Khan Damghar who was killed by unidentified attackers in Damghar area
on 13 June last year.

On Monday, DSP Khan Bahadar Khan and four other policemen were killed when a
roadside bomb hit a police vehicle patrolling in Shangla area. Police officials
said DSP Khan was going to investigate a murder case in Puran area when the bomb
hit his vehicle.

In recent years, Swat has witnessed targeted attacks on many prominent
personalities. The list begins with Malala Yusufzai.

Despite the fact that many local notables either lost their lives or sustained
serious injuries, Swat police have badly failed so far in nabbing any killer.
Malala Ysufzai, the child right activist along with two school fellows was shot
and injured in broad daylight in a brazen terrorist attack.

On that very day, the police patrolling party was absent which usually would
traverse the area 24 hours a day. Similarly, Al-Haj Zahid Khan, spokesperson
Swat Qaumi Jirga and President All Swat Hotel Association, was attacked in the
very presence of police personnel. Not only this, the police fled the spot in
sheer fear.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 29 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 29, 2013 Wednesday

France uncertain about origin of Agadez, Arlit terror attacks

LENGTH: 533 words


Excerpt from report by French Foreign Ministry website www.diplomatie.gouv.fr on
28 May

[From the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs press briefing of 28 May 2013 with
unidentified spokesman.]

[Passage omitted] 10. Sahel

[Correspondent] The minister is in Niamey and Bamako today. The Nigeriens have
said on several occasions that the attacks came from southern Libya. What is
your analysis of the situation in southern Libya?

[Spokesman] Let me say one word on Mali. There has been some good news:
confirmation of the date for the July elections, also good announcements
concerning the MNLA [National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad] and Kidal,
prospects of elections over the entire territory within the announced timeframe.
All chapters in the resolution of the Malian crisis are taking a good turn. This
is true for the security chapter, the political and national reconciliation
chapter, and the development chapter, with the success of the 15 May conference
in Brussels. Consequently, Laurent Fabius is going to Mali also to encourage all
of our interlocutors and to continue down this path.

Concerning Niger, there have been some contradictory statements made about the
origins of the perpetrators of the Agadez and Arlit terrorist attacks. The
latest declarations were those made by President Issoufou and the Libyan
authorities. We are still not sure on this point.

It seems to us - without getting into a direct causality link - that there is a
specific security problem in Libya: internal, as shown by the recent
confrontations, and external, due to the porous nature of borders in the entire
area. A certain number of decisions were taken at a bilateral or European level,
with programmes to train policemen and soldiers and a European Union mission on
border security, which will be deployed in June. This is the outcome of the
international conference that was held in Paris on 12 February 2013. It is our
intention, as the minister of foreign affairs indicated, to quicken the pace on
this issue. There is a huge job to be done on the rule of law, democracy, and
the political transition. Security will only be reestablished with substantive
and long-term work. This is all the more reason not to waste time and to get on
with it.

In a more general manner, this effort concerns the entire region. Some
instruments are already in place. A global forum against terrorism, co-chaired
by Algeria and Canada, brings together all North African and Sahel nations and
it will hold its next meeting in Oran on 24 and 25 June. The European Union's
"Sahel Strategy" makes an overall approach possible and can be implemented very
quickly. There is also the chapter on "reinforcing security capabilities" with
EUCAP Sahel Niger, EUTM to train the Malian army, etc.

We are now becoming aware of the regional dimension of the effort to be made on
these three chapters, which were clearly identified during the Malian crisis:
political initiatives in favour of democracy and human rights; a security
chapter to fight terrorism and all forms of trafficking, which feed on one
another (drugs, weapons, etc.); and a development chapter.

Source: French Foreign Ministry website, Paris, in French 28 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                             May 29, 2013 Wednesday

Tributes to soldier Lee Rigby, killed in London terror attack

SECTION: BOLTON NEWS (BOLTON NEWS)

LENGTH: 93 words


FLOWERS have been placed at the war memorial in Victoria Square in tribute to
Drummer Lee Rigby.

The 25-year-old, who was with the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers, was brutally
murdered in a horrific terrorist attack in London last week.

Floral tributes with messages honouring the soldier have been laid, some with
messages, others bearing the photography of the soldier from Middleton.

One read: "Gone but not forgotten. Rest in peace. "Stand down Fusilier Rigby,
you're now with the angels."

Ten people have now been arrested in connection with Drummer Rigby's death.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             May 29, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

HELL-BENT ON MASS MURDER;
POLICE ESCAPE DISSIDENT ATTACK Terror group ambush officers with pipe bombs
Fears they're planning to kill multiple cops

BYLINE: MAURICE FITZMAURICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 903 words


FEARS are mounting that the dissident terrorists behind a double grenade attack
on police yesterday are "hell-bent on mass murder" ahead of the G8 Summit.

One well-placed source told the Daily Mirror the group, believed to be
Belfast-based Oglaigh na hEireann, appear to have recruited better expertise and
are trying very hard to kill "a number of police officers, not just one".

The source said police intelligence suggests ONH are determined to murder as
many officers as possible in what they would consider a "spectacular" to "steal
the headlines" ahead of the Fermanagh meeting of world leaders including Barack
Obama and PM David Cameron.

They added: "What happened in North Belfast today is more or less a mirror image
of Foxes Glen [when gunmen attacked officers in West Belfast] - an attempt at
multiple murders of police officers, a spectacular killing spree as they would
see it.

"These people would love to derail the G8. There's no doubt it's a very, very
dangerous time.

"It also seems clear they have got more expertise into their ranks given their
tactics and the bombs they are creating seem to have improved."

Yesterday's attack saw two devices - which North Belfast police commander Andy
Freeburn said were "large" and "improvised grenade" type bombs - hurled at
officers as they answered a 999 call on the Crumlin Road at around 2.45am.

The police added they have still not established if the emergency call was a
fake designed to draw officers into the area as had happened before the attack
on officers at Foxes Glen on May 16 which was also blamed on ONH.

However, other sources yesterday dismissed the idea the terror group have
increased their capability saying that making pipe bombs requires little
expertise.

They pointed out that no one was injured at Foxes Glen or on the Upper Crumlin
Road yesterday.

The latest attack comes after sources claimed a member of ONH from the nearby
Ardoyne district was ordered out of the country after admitting passing
information on senior figures in the group nPolice to MI5. It is unclear if the
man, a one-time INLA member, has left yet.

PSNI Chief Inspector Freeburn said the attack was a blatant attempt to kill
police.

He added: "We are extremely shocked that we nearly lost the lives of two of our
officers.

"We are just so fortunate we are not dealing with the loss of life of our
officers or indeed anybody else that was residing in this residential area."

The grenades exploded as the two police officers, who are young but have a
number of years' experience with the PSNI, got out of their armoured patrol
vehicle.

Chief Insp Freeburn added: "The officers parked their vehicle, got out and
within seconds of that happening two pipe bombs arrived very close to them.

"They had a very short space of time to take cover before these devices
detonated. They were large pipe bomb-type devices. When we say pipe bomb we are
talking about an improvised grenade. This would have had the potential to, if
not kill, seriously injure officers if they had been any closer to them."

Chief Insp Freeburn said there were no plans for officers to use only armoured
Land Rovers when responding to call-outs.

It is understood the bombs were thrown from an alleyway on the other side of the
road from where the 999 call was made.

The attack happened in a mainly Protestant part of the Crumlin Road but is
within a few hundred yards of Catholic areas on either side.

One resident, who lives within yards of the attack, added locals believe loud
bangs heard coming from the Ligoniel direction last week may have been
dissidents testing bombs.

However, the police yesterday said they believe the noise was caused by
fireworks. North Belfast DUP MP Nigel Dodds described the perpetrators as the
enemies of society. He added: "There can be no doubt that those who planned and
carried out this attack intended to cause serious injury or death to police
officers.

"It is a huge relief that no injuries were caused but this will have been a
deeply shocking experience for them.

"This is a grim reminder of the threat of terrorist attacks the PSNI have to
operate under as they respond to emergency calls and protect the community.

"Those responsible for this murderous attack care nothing for who suffers from
their terrorism. They are prepared to put any police officer and any member of
the public in danger of serious or fatal injuries."

Sinn Fein MLA Gerry Kelly said that as well as trying to kill police officers
the perpetrators are "attempting to remilitarise the North".

He added: "The people behind this attack have minimal support within the
community and need to end these futile attacks.

"There is no strategy involved, no explanation for what they are attempting to
achieve. These attacks will not stop the community from moving forward and will
certainly not see our areas remilitarised because of these small groups stuck in
the past."

The PSNI said the local community had provided information but detectives were
urging anyone who saw anything suspicious at the time of the attack to come
forward.

Up to 20 homes had to be evacuated because of concerns about secondary devices.
Residents including pensioners and a pregnant woman were moved to the nearby
Ballysillan Leisure Centre.

Voice of the Mirror: Page 8

We are so fortunate we are not dealing with the loss of life of officers CHIEF
INSP FREEBURN J

This is a grim reminder of the threat of terrorism against the PSNI NIGEL DODDS

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOCK Chief Insp Freeburn
WARNING JNigel Dodds
PROBE and Army at scene
SEARCH PSNI forensic experts
ON WATCH Armed officer seals off area

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             May 29, 2013 Wednesday

Financial: Security: Most firms ill-prepared for terrorist attack

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN FINANCIAL PAGES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 184 words


A large majority of companies are ill-prepared for a terrorist attack, according
to a poll of more than 600 British business leaders published today .

The YouGov survey suggests most UK businesses could be failing to implement even
basic security practice. More than half of decision-makers said their business
did not regularly check whether sensitive corporate information had been leaked,
and more than 40% had never carried out a risk assessment of the threats to
their companies.

The poll was analysed by researchers from Swiss Management Centre University,
which offers education, consultancy and research in counter-intelligence and
security.

More than 80% of British businesses would fail a simple counter-terrorism test,
according to the analysis, with 54% of respondents saying their businesses had
either never or not recently checked whether any sensitive information about
their organisation was publicly available.

Companies had not prepared a list of potential risks to their business in 40% of
cases and just over a third said their companies do not enforce any sort of
computer password policy.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 29, 2013
                                 First Edition

Terror police called after inmates attack guards;
PRISONS

BYLINE: Kunal Dutta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 204 words


Counter-terrorism officers have been deployed to investigate an attack on two
prison officers at a maximum-security jail.

A male warden was left with a broken cheekbone after being held hostage by three
male prisoners, two aged 25 and one aged 26.

The North East Counter Terrorism Unit has been called in to lead the
investigation into the incident at HMP Full Sutton in Yorkshire amid reports
that the inmates were Muslims, inspired by the killing of Drummer Lee Rigby.

A statement from the unit said: "Inquiries are ongoing to establish the
circumstances surrounding the incident.

"Given the potential nature of the incident and the range of skills and
expertise within the North East CTU, the unit is leading the investigation at
this time."

Both prison officers have received treatment for their injuries and have since
been discharged. The attack comes amid increasing tensions in the wake of last
Wednesday's killing.

The Grimsby Islamic Cultural Centre was attacked for the second time in three
days on Sunday while a family was inside.

Stuart Harness, 33, and Gavin Humphries, 37, both of Grimsby, were yesterday
arrested in connection with the incident and charged with arson with intent to
endanger life, and denied bail.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2013 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  May 29, 2013
                                 First Edition

MI5: 'snooper's charter' would not have stopped Woolwich attack;
TERRORISM

BYLINE: Oliver Wright WHITEHALL EDITOR and Kim Sengupta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 379 words


A Conservative-backed plan to allow police and the security services
unprecedented access to people's internet communications would not have helped
prevent the murder of Lee Rigby, M15 officers have indicated.

Senior security sources have told i that to cite last Wednesday's killing as a
reason to push forward with the controversial "snooper's charter" was a "cheap
argument".

The remarks will be seen as a rebuke to the Home Secretary, Theresa May, who
suggested at the weekend that the Draft Communications Bill was "essential for
the intelligence agencies" to combat the threat of terrorism.

In fact, the security source suggested, the Bill would be of greater use to the
police in gathering evidence in the early stages of an investigation than it
would be in preventing the type of attack seen in Woolwich.

They stressed any decision to proceed with the Bill, which is being blocked by
the Liberal Democrats, was a political one and the effect on civil liberties
would have to be taken into consideration.

Yesterday, it also emerged that the head of MI5, Andrew Parker, has written to
the Parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee setting out what the
security services knew about the activities of the Woolwich suspects Michael
Adebowale and Michael Adebolajo. This follows talks between Mr Parker and Sir
Malcolm Rifkind, the chairman of the committee, last week.

In the wake of the attack it emerged that Adebolajo and Adebowale were both
known to MI5 - and may have been approached to act as informers.

In an interview, Sir Malcolm insisted that MI5 was not being criticised over the
killings. "I don't think they're in the dock. I think that would be very
unfair," he said.

"Do remember one fundamental point: the fact we have not had anyone killed until
these tragic events in Woolwich since the 7/7 bombings [in London] in 2005 is
not because there haven't been terrorist plots.

Every year since 2005 there has been at least one, sometimes two or even more,
which were disrupted and prevented from killing British citizens, partly because
of the work of MI5."

Adebowale was taken to a police station in south London after being released
from hospital. He was formally arrested on suspicion of the murder and suspicion
of the attempted murder of a police officer.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2013 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 29, 2013 Wednesday 9:59 PM GMT

Woolwich terror attack: Internet monitoring is now urgent for MI5 and MI6 to
fight 'mayhem', says Defence Secretary Philip Hammond

BYLINE: Oliver Wright

SECTION: UK POLITICS

LENGTH: 226 words


British troops and citizens would be safer from terrorist "mayhem" if MI5 and
MI6 had more access to people's internet activities, the Defence Secretary has
claimed.

Philip Hammond was speaking after security sources told The Independent that
Conservative-backed plans for new laws to intercept digital communications would
not have prevented the murder of Drummer Lee Rigby.

But the Defence Secretary said it was vital to have the new laws - known as the
"snooper's charter" - in order to monitor Islamic extremists. He said there was
an "urgent need" to discover who is in the "network" surrounding a suspected
terrorist to find out  "who else might be about to commit a similar act".

"The danger that we've got, as technology develops, more and more communications
are carried out over the internet, voice over Internet Protocol, Skype and so
on, [is] that the police and security services lose that ability to track that
traffic," he said.

"Of course, we have to do this in a way that is sensitive to the concerns about
preserving civil liberties.

"But we preserve our civil liberties by making sure that those who want to
murder our citizens and soldiers on our streets can be tracked and monitored and
dealt with, so that  they can't cause that kind of mayhem," he said.

The Liberal Democrats are still opposed to allowing the Communications Data Bill
to pass.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 29, 2013 Wednesday 2:24 PM GMT

'You never answer your phone, you don't file expenses and you miss important
meetings': International terrorist Moktar Belmoktar receives dressing down from
al-Qa'ida leadership in newly discovered letter;
Letter also denounces Belmoktar for failing to commit a single 'spectacular'
terror attack in the Sahara desert

BYLINE: John Hall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 685 words


A fascinating insight into the inner workings of al-Qa'ida has been provided via
a letter from the terror network's central command, berating international
terrorist Moktar Belmoktar for not answering his phone, failing to file expenses
and missing important meetings.

In the letter - discovered by Associated Press in a Timbuktu building once
occupied by Belmoktar's troops and formally authenticated by three terror
experts - senior members of al-Qa'ida issue what amounts to a formal written
warning for the Algerian terrorist.

Denouncing him for failing to commit a single "spectacular" terror attack in the
Sahara desert, despite numerous opportunities and significant resources,
al-Qa'ida's 14-member Shura Council - the umbrella organisation that regulates
independently-run but ideologically and financially-affiliated terror cells -
suggest Belmoktar is an unmanageable rebel whose hostility to leadership is
looked upon as a "bleeding wound".

Dated October 3, 2012, the letter precedes Belmoktar's very public split with
al-Qa'ida, after which he established the autonomous jihadist unit Those Who
Sign in Blood - also known as the Masked Brigade.

That group has since claimed responsibility for one of the largest
hostage-takings in history - at a BP-operated gas plant in south-east Algeria in
January, and for twin suicide bomb blasts in Niger just last week.

In total these attacks have left 101 people dead and, somewhat ironically, were
described as "spectacular" acts of terror by the French newspaper Le Monde.

Belmoktar, born in Ghardaia, Northern Algeria in 1972, is a notorious kidnapper
and weapons dealer based in remote Saharan areas of southern Algeria,
north-eastern Mali and north-west Niger. Throughout the letter he is addressed
by his nom de guerre, Khaled Abu Abbas.

Interested in hardline Islamism from childhood, Belmoktar travelled to
Afghanistan at the age of 19 to fight in the civil war. He claims he lost an eye
in battle and received training at al-Qa'ida terror camps; providing him with
the network of international jihadist contacts he would later utilise in
becoming commander of al-Qa'ida in the Islamic Maghreb.

Occasionally known as Mr Marlboro for the huge cigarette smuggling network he
established in the Saharan desert, Belmoktar is also reported to have employed a
three foot six inch executioner known as 'Mohamed the Dwarf', who would behead
or slit the throats of the group's enemies during a series of massacres that
took place amid the Algerian Civil War.

He has reportedly fallen out with successive al-Qa'ida leaderships since
becoming a commander, a fact noted in the letter when the Shura Council writes:
"Abu Abbas is not willing to follow anyone... he is only willing to be followed
and obeyed".

"Why do successive emirs of the region only have difficulties with you? You in
particular every time? Or are all of them wrong and brother Khaled is right?"
they add.

Elsewhere in the letter, Belmoktar is criticised for not answering phone calls
from al-Qa'ida's leadership, failing to file administrative and expenses
reports, airing personal grievances via public jihadist internet forums, and
failing to attend an important meeting in Timbuktu which he'd branded "useless".

Another reproach focuses on Belmoktar's habit of agreeing to release hostages
for considerably less than the ransom fees agreed by al-Qa'ida's central
command.

The letter says: "Rather than walking alongside us in the plan we outlined, he
managed the case as he liked... Here we must ask who handled this important
abduction poorly?... Does it come from the unilateral behaviour along the lines
of our brother Abu Abbas, which produced a blatant inadequacy: Trading the
weightiest case - Canadian diplomats!! - for the most meagre price -
(EURO)700,000!!"

The original text of the 10-page letter can be found on an AP-hosted website at
the following addresses:

(In English):
http://hosted.ap.org/specials/interactives/_international/_pdfs/al-qaida-belmokt
ar-letter-english.pdf

(In the original
Arabic):http://hosted.ap.org/specials/interactives/_international/_pdfs/al-qaida
-belmoktar-letter.pdf

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 29, 2013 Wednesday 7:42 PM GMT

Angel of Woolwich returns to Lee Rigby's murder scene one week after the terror
attack which shocked Britain as police appeal for witnesses

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1813 words



     ·    Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, 48, brands attackers 'cowards' as she visit
          memorial
     ·    Overcome with emotion while looking at thousands of tributes to Lee
          Rigby
     ·    Hailed a hero after she was pictured talking to blood-spattered
          suspect
     ·    She said: 'It was instinctive, my brain was just telling me it was
          okay, I just wanted to keep him busy until the police got there'
     ·    Police hand out flyers in renewed appeal for information at murder
          scene
     ·    Post-mortem exam revealed soldier, 25, died from multiple stab wounds
     ·    Two-minute silence held at 2.20pm, exactly a week on from soldier's
          death
     ·    Police officers who shot suspects could be back on duty within weeks
     ·    Suspect, 21, arrested over murder denies any involvement in the
          'atrocity'
     ·    Lee Rigby's 'devastated' fiancee tonight paid tribute to a 'great man'


A brave woman hailed the 'Angel of Woolwich' after confronting one of Lee
Rigby's alleged killers returned to the scene for the first time today and told
of her fears his murder will haunt her.

Cub Scout leader Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, 48, branded the alleged killers 'cowards'
as she visited the spot where she tended the dying soldier for the first time
since his brutal murder.

She said she was overcome with emotion as she looked at the thousands of
colourful flowers and cards left as tributes.

Scroll down for video

The French-born heroine spoke as police investigating the murder confirmed the
soldier died from multiple stab wounds.

An inquest into Drummer Rigby's death will be opened at Southwark Crown Court on
Friday, Scotland Yard said, after the results of the post-mortem examination
were revealed.

Mrs Loyau-Kennett said: 'I'm not haunted. I have been talking about it so often
that I don't have time to think.

'But maybe when I'll be on my own something will happen; right now I don't have
time.

'I try to avoid that, I don't read anything and try not to watch too much
because I don't want to relive these potentially bad memories.'

The mother-of-two was hailed a hero after she was pictured confronting one of
the blood spattered men who allegedly hacked Drummer Rigby to death.

Visiting the scene for the first time, exactly a week after the brutal murder,
she said the thousands of tributes left in memory of Drummer Rigby were a
testament to the British public's determination to stand up to terrorists.

SOLDIER'S FIANCEE PAYS TRIBUTE TO A 'GREAT MAN'

The fiancee of murdered soldier Lee Rigby said tonight that she is 'devastated'
by his loss and has been moved by all the tributes to a 'great man'.

Aimee West released a short statement through Scotland Yard to say: 'I am
devastated by the loss of Lee who was a loving fiance.

'I am extremely proud of him and I am moved by all the flowers and tributes, and
that he has been remembered by the nation as the great man that he was.

'I ask that mine and my family's privacy is respected during this difficult
time.'

Piles of floral tributes have been left near where Drummer Rigby was hacked to
death in Woolwich, south east London, last week.

She said: 'It feels very emotional to see all the flowers, it is very, very
emotional.

'I am very breathless, my heart is pounding. This is the first time I've been
here.

'It is a great response from the British public that shows them that we won't
accept this, the other message is that we are behind Lee and his family.

'I feel very emotional, it has been a huge response from the British public.
They are saying 'we are behind our Army' and saying 'we won't stand for this -
don't kill like this, it is cowardly.'

Reliving the moment when she leapt off a bus to rush over to where Drummer
Rigby's body lay on the road, she said she didn't fear for her own safety and
her instincts took over.

She said: 'It was instinctive, my brain was just telling me it was okay, I just
wanted to keep him busy until the police got there.

'I didn't want any more people to die, I didn't want the children to get hurt.

'I just did what the right thing seemed to be at the time when I realised it
wasn't a road accident but a murder. I just thought 'I better keep him busy'.

'Something told me to stay and talk to him. He looked like he was somebody who
was nervous. Obviously he wanted the attention. He didn't do that for nothing.

WOOLWICH SUSPECT, 21, DENIES ROLE IN LEE RIGBY'S MURDER

A 21-year-old arrested in connection with the murder of soldier Lee Rigby has
denied any involvement in the 'atrocity'.

Hayden Allen, who is reportedly a Muslim convert, was held on Saturday on
suspicion of conspiracy to commit murder by detectives from Scotland Yard's
Counter Terrorism Command.

Specialist firearms officers used a Taser on Allen as he was arrested in
Charlton Lane, in Greenwich, south east London, some three days after the
horrific killing of Drummer Rigby. He was later released on bail.

Allen, who is understood to have attended the same mosque as the two main
suspects, said: 'I had no prior knowledge of the atrocity that happened last
week and I played no part in the incident or the lead-up to it whatsoever.

'My family are wholly uninvolved. I ask that the police continue to investigate
and that my family be allowed without harassment to continue their lives.'

He added: 'I have been greatly distressed by all that has occurred.'

'As I told the attacker, if he wants to fight British soldiers then join a
regular army. This is not the way to do it, it was cowardly.

'But no, he wanted a war on London streets, that is not very courageous.'

Ingrid, who was born in France, said the stabbing of a French soldier near Paris
last week suggested there is a terrifying new 'trend' for attacking soldiers on
the streets of Europe.

She said: 'It is the same thing, it seems to me that there is a trend to attack
like this.

'But these soldiers, they have a life, a family, they are the son of somebody
and the father of somebody else. It is cowardly to do that.'

Lee Rigby's fiancee Aimee West tonight released a statement saying that she has
been left 'devastated' by the death of a 'great man'.

In a statement released through Scotland Yard, she said:'I am devastated by the
loss of Lee who was a loving fiance.

'I am extremely proud of him and I am moved by all the flowers and tributes, and
that he has been remembered by the nation as the great man that he was.

'I ask that mine and my family's privacy is respected during this difficult
time.'

Meanwhile, a two-minute silence was held in memory of Drummer Rigby at the exact
time he was hacked to death last week.

Around 100 people - including parents with pushchairs, teenagers and mothers
coming back from the shops - gathered at the floral shrine at 2.20pm.

The normally busy road in Woolwich, south east London, fell silent and traffic
came to a standstill as the crowd spent a few moments in quiet contemplation.

Uniformed police officers held their caps in their hands out of respect as
locals hugged each other and some shed a tear for the murdered soldier.

Earlier police probing the soldier's murder issued a fresh appeal for any
witnesses to come forward - exactly a week after the soldier was hacked to
death.

Speaking outside Woolwich barracks just yards from where the young soldier was
killed, Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford said officers were in the
midst of a 'fast paced and complex' investigation.

He said: 'Seven days ago, Lee Rigby was murdered in an incident that was both
horrific and shocking.

'Our thoughts today are with his family and friends at this difficult time.

'A fast-paced and complex investigation us under way by the Met's counter
terrorism command.

'As part of that, officers are asking for the public's help and we would urge
anybody who witnessed Lee's attack or has other information that may assist the
investigation to come forward.'

Police are also calling for information on the blue Vauxhall Tigra, registration
N696 JWX, that hit Drummer Rigby last Wednesday afternoon.

Commander Letchford said police officers were patrolling Woolwich today and
handing out leaflets urging for witnesses to come forward if they have any
information that could help the police.

FIREARMS OFFICERS WILL BE BACK ON DUTY 'WITHIN WEEKS'

Three firearms officers involved in the shooting of the men suspected of
murdering soldier Lee Rigby could be back on duty within weeks.

The officers, along with two of their commanders, are currently undergoing post
shooting assessments and Chief Superintendent Alistair Sutherland, above, said
he 'certainly hopes' that they will return to normal duties soon.

He said: 'I will obviously speak to my counterparts in our department for
professional standards and I will liaise with the IPCC (Independent Police
Complaints Commission), and then I will come to a decision around putting them
back to ops.

'But at this stage I would anticipate them being back on operational duty fairly
quickly.'

Michael Adebowale, 22, and Michael Adebolajo, 28, were both shot by police in
the wake of Drummer Rigby's murder near Woolwich barracks in south east London
on May 22.

Yesterday Adebowale was discharged from hospital and taken into police custody
for questioning over the young soldier's murder and the attempted murder of a
police officer.

Adebolajo remains in hospital.

Police also urged anyone who filmed or took photographs to send the moving or
still images to woolwich@metincident.co.uk, including their name and contact
details, and not to delete them after sending them.

Commander Letchford also paid tribute to the help the British public have
already given the authorities about the killing of Drummer Rigby - but said they
were still hunting for more information to help the investigation.

He said: 'I would like to take this opportunity to thank the public for their
help and support.

'This has been a really difficult time for our city, it is important that as
Londoners we come together.

'I would urge people to remain calm and continue to show restraint as our
investigation continues to bring those responsible for Lee Rigby's death to
justice.'

He declined to answer any questions about the investigation.

Yesterday, relatives of Adebolajo released a statement sending their 'heartfelt
condolence' to Drummer Rigby's family, and saying there is no place for violence
in the name of religion.

The Adebolajo family said: 'Nothing we can say can undo the events of last week.

However, as a family, we wish to share with others our horror at the senseless
killing of Lee Rigby, and express our profound shame and distress that this has
brought to our family.

'We send our heartfelt condolence to Lee Rigby's family and loved ones.'

So far, 10 people have been held by detectives investigating the young soldier's
death, including Adebowale and Adebolajo.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 29, 2013 Wednesday 6:29 PM GMT

Angel of Woolwich returns to Lee Rigby's murder scene one week after the terror
attack which shocked Britain as police appeal for witnesses

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1594 words



     ·    Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, 48, brands attackers 'cowards' as she visit
          memorial
     ·    Overcome with emotion while looking at thousands of tributes to Lee
          Rigby
     ·    Hailed a hero after she was pictured talking to blood-spattered
          suspect
     ·    She said: 'It was instinctive, my brain was just telling me it was
          okay, I just wanted to keep him busy until the police got there'
     ·    Police hand out flyers in renewed appeal for information at murder
          scene
     ·    Post-mortem exam revealed soldier, 25, died from multiple stab wounds
     ·    Two-minute silence held at 2.20pm, exactly a week on from soldier's
          death
     ·    Police officers who shot suspects could be back on duty within weeks
     ·    Suspect, 21, arrested over murder denies any involvement in the
          'atrocity'


A brave woman hailed the 'Angel of Woolwich' after confronting one of Lee
Rigby's alleged killers returned to the scene for the first time today and told
of her fears his murder will haunt her.

Cub Scout leader Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, 48, branded the alleged killers 'cowards'
as she visited the spot where she tended the dying soldier for the first time
since his brutal murder.

She said she was overcome with emotion as she looked at the thousands of
colourful flowers and cards left as tributes.

Scroll down for video

The French-born heroine spoke as police investigating the murder confirmed the
soldier died from multiple stab wounds.

An inquest into Drummer Rigby's death will be opened at Southwark Crown Court on
Friday, Scotland Yard said, after the results of the post-mortem examination
were revealed.

Mrs Loyau-Kennett said: 'I'm not haunted. I have been talking about it so often
that I don't have time to think.

'But maybe when I'll be on my own something will happen; right now I don't have
time.

'I try to avoid that, I don't read anything and try not to watch too much
because I don't want to relive these potentially bad memories.'

The mother-of-two was hailed a hero after she was pictured confronting one of
the blood spattered men who allegedly hacked Drummer Rigby to death.

Visiting the scene for the first time, exactly a week after the brutal murder,
she said the thousands of tributes left in memory of Drummer Rigby were a
testament to the British public's determination to stand up to terrorists.

FIREARMS OFFICERS WILL BE BACK ON DUTY 'WITHIN WEEKS'

Three firearms officers involved in the shooting of the men suspected of
murdering soldier Lee Rigby could be back on duty within weeks.

The officers, along with two of their commanders, are currently undergoing post
shooting assessments and Chief Superintendent Alistair Sutherland, above, said
he 'certainly hopes' that they will return to normal duties soon.

He said: 'I will obviously speak to my counterparts in our department for
professional standards and I will liaise with the IPCC (Independent Police
Complaints Commission), and then I will come to a decision around putting them
back to ops.

'But at this stage I would anticipate them being back on operational duty fairly
quickly.'

Michael Adebowale, 22, and Michael Adebolajo, 28, were both shot by police in
the wake of Drummer Rigby's murder near Woolwich barracks in south east London
on May 22.

Yesterday Adebowale was discharged from hospital and taken into police custody
for questioning over the young soldier's murder and the attempted murder of a
police officer.

Adebolajo remains in hospital.

She said: 'It feels very emotional to see all the flowers, it is very, very
emotional.

'I am very breathless, my heart is pounding. This is the first time I've been
here.

'It is a great response from the British public that shows them that we won't
accept this, the other message is that we are behind Lee and his family.

'I feel very emotional, it has been a huge response from the British public.
They are saying 'we are behind our Army' and saying 'we won't stand for this -
don't kill like this, it is cowardly.'

Reliving the moment when she leapt off a bus to rush over to where Drummer
Rigby's body lay on the road, she said she didn't fear for her own safety and
her instincts took over.

She said: 'It was instinctive, my brain was just telling me it was okay, I just
wanted to keep him busy until the police got there.

'I didn't want any more people to die, I didn't want the children to get hurt.

'I just did what the right thing seemed to be at the time when I realised it
wasn't a road accident but a murder. I just thought 'I better keep him busy'.

'Something told me to stay and talk to him. He looked like he was somebody who
was nervous. Obviously he wanted the attention. He didn't do that for nothing.

WOOLWICH SUSPECT, 21, DENIES ROLE IN LEE RIGBY'S MURDER

A 21-year-old arrested in connection with the murder of soldier Lee Rigby has
denied any involvement in the 'atrocity'.

Hayden Allen, who is reportedly a Muslim convert, was held on Saturday on
suspicion of conspiracy to commit murder by detectives from Scotland Yard's
Counter Terrorism Command.

Specialist firearms officers used a Taser on Allen as he was arrested in
Charlton Lane, in Greenwich, south east London, some three days after the
horrific killing of Drummer Rigby. He was later released on bail.

Allen, who is understood to have attended the same mosque as the two main
suspects, said: 'I had no prior knowledge of the atrocity that happened last
week and I played no part in the incident or the lead-up to it whatsoever.

'My family are wholly uninvolved. I ask that the police continue to investigate
and that my family be allowed without harassment to continue their lives.'

He added: 'I have been greatly distressed by all that has occurred.'

'As I told the attacker, if he wants to fight British soldiers then join a
regular army. This is not the way to do it, it was cowardly.

'But no, he wanted a war on London streets, that is not very courageous.'

Ingrid, who was born in France, said the stabbing of a French soldier near Paris
last week suggested there is a terrifying new 'trend' for attacking soldiers on
the streets of Europe.

She said: 'It is the same thing, it seems to me that there is a trend to attack
like this.

'But these soldiers, they have a life, a family, they are the son of somebody
and the father of somebody else. It is cowardly to do that.'

Meanwhile, a two-minute silence was held in memory of Drummer Rigby at the exact
time he was hacked to death last week.

Around 100 people - including parents with pushchairs, teenagers and mothers
coming back from the shops - gathered at the floral shrine at 2.20pm.

The normally busy road in Woolwich, south east London, fell silent and traffic
came to a standstill as the crowd spent a few moments in quiet contemplation.

Uniformed police officers held their caps in their hands out of respect as
locals hugged each other and some shed a tear for the murdered soldier.

Earlier police probing the soldier's murder issued a fresh appeal for any
witnesses to come forward - exactly a week after the soldier was hacked to
death.

Speaking outside Woolwich barracks just yards from where the young soldier was
killed, Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford said officers were in the
midst of a 'fast paced and complex' investigation.

He said: 'Seven days ago, Lee Rigby was murdered in an incident that was both
horrific and shocking.

'Our thoughts today are with his family and friends at this difficult time.

'A fast-paced and complex investigation us under way by the Met's counter
terrorism command.

'As part of that, officers are asking for the public's help and we would urge
anybody who witnessed Lee's attack or has other information that may assist the
investigation to come forward.'

Police are also calling for information on the blue Vauxhall Tigra, registration
N696 JWX, that hit Drummer Rigby last Wednesday afternoon.

Commander Letchford said police officers were patrolling Woolwich today and
handing out leaflets urging for witnesses to come forward if they have any
information that could help the police.

Police also urged anyone who filmed or took photographs to send the moving or
still images to woolwich@metincident.co.uk, including their name and contact
details, and not to delete them after sending them.

Commander Letchford also paid tribute to the help the British public have
already given the authorities about the killing of Drummer Rigby - but said they
were still hunting for more information to help the investigation.

He said: 'I would like to take this opportunity to thank the public for their
help and support.

'This has been a really difficult time for our city, it is important that as
Londoners we come together.

'I would urge people to remain calm and continue to show restraint as our
investigation continues to bring those responsible for Lee Rigby's death to
justice.'

He declined to answer any questions about the investigation.

Yesterday, relatives of Adebolajo released a statement sending their 'heartfelt
condolence' to Drummer Rigby's family, and saying there is no place for violence
in the name of religion.

The Adebolajo family said: 'Nothing we can say can undo the events of last week.

However, as a family, we wish to share with others our horror at the senseless
killing of Lee Rigby, and express our profound shame and distress that this has
brought to our family.

'We send our heartfelt condolence to Lee Rigby's family and loved ones.'

So far, 10 people have been held by detectives investigating the young soldier's
death, including Adebowale and Adebolajo.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 29, 2013 Wednesday 5:02 PM GMT

Angel of Woolwich returns to Lee Rigby's murder scene one week after the terror
attack which shocked Britain as police appeal for witnesses

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1532 words



     ·    Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, 48, brands attackers 'cowards' as she visit
          memorial
     ·    Overcome with emotion while looking at thousands of tributes to Lee
          Rigby
     ·    Hailed a hero after she was pictured talking to blood-spattered
          suspect
     ·    She said: 'It was instinctive, my brain was just telling me it was
          okay, I just wanted to keep him busy until the police got there'
     ·    Police hand out flyers in renewed appeal for information at murder
          scene
     ·    Two-minute silence held at 2.20pm, exactly a week on from soldier's
          death
     ·    Police officers who shot suspects could be back on duty within weeks
     ·    Suspect, 21, arrest over murder denies any involvement in the
          'atrocity'


A brave woman hailed the 'Angel of Woolwich' after confronting one of Lee
Rigby's killers returned to the scene for the first time today and told of her
fears his murder will haunt her.

Cub Scout leader Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, 48, branded the killers 'cowards' as she
visited the spot where she tended the dying soldier for the first time since his
brutal murder.

She said she was overcome with emotion as she looked at the thousands of
colourful flowers and cards left as tributes.

The French-born heroine said: 'I'm not haunted. I have been talking about it so
often that I don't have time to think.

'But maybe when I'll be on my own something will happen; right now I don't have
time.

'I try to avoid that, I don't read anything and try not to watch too much
because I don't want to relive these potentially bad memories.'

The mother-of-two was hailed a hero after she was pictured confronting one of
the blood spattered men who allegedly hacked Drummer Rigby to death.

Visiting the scene for the first time, exactly a week after the brutal murder,
she said the thousands of tributes left in memory of Drummer Rigby were a
testament to the British public's determination to stand up to terrorists.

FIREARMS OFFICERS WILL BE BACK ON DUTY 'WITHIN WEEKS'

Three firearms officers involved in the shooting of the men suspected of
murdering soldier Lee Rigby could be back on duty within weeks.

The officers, along with two of their commanders, are currently undergoing post
shooting assessments and Chief Superintendent Alistair Sutherland, above, said
he 'certainly hopes' that they will return to normal duties soon.

He said: 'I will obviously speak to my counterparts in our department for
professional standards and I will liaise with the IPCC (Independent Police
Complaints Commission), and then I will come to a decision around putting them
back to ops.

'But at this stage I would anticipate them being back on operational duty fairly
quickly.'

Michael Adebowale, 22, and Michael Adebolajo, 28, were both shot by police in
the wake of Drummer Rigby's murder near Woolwich barracks in south east London
on May 22.

Yesterday Adebowale was discharged from hospital and taken into police custody
for questioning over the young soldier's murder and the attempted murder of a
police officer.

Adebolajo remains in hospital.

She said: 'It feels very emotional to see all the flowers, it is very, very
emotional.

'I am very breathless, my heart is pounding. This is the first time I've been
here.

'It is a great response from the British public that shows them that we won't
accept this, the other message is that we are behind Lee and his family.

'I feel very emotional, it has been a huge response from the British public.
They are saying 'we are behind our Army' and saying 'we won't stand for this -
don't kill like this, it is cowardly.'

Reliving the moment when she leapt off a bus to rush over to where Drummer
Rigby's body lay on the road, she said she didn't fear for her own safety and
her instincts took over.

She said: 'It was instinctive, my brain was just telling me it was okay, I just
wanted to keep him busy until the police got there.

'I didn't want any more people to die, I didn't want the children to get hurt.

'I just did what the right thing seemed to be at the time when I realised it
wasn't a road accident but a murder. I just thought 'I better keep him busy'.

'Something told me to stay and talk to him. He looked like he was somebody who
was nervous, either because they killed somebody by accident or intentionally.
Obviously he wanted the attention. He didn't do that for nothing.

'As I told the attacker, if he wants to fight British soldiers then join a
regular army. This is not the way to do it, it was cowardly.

'But no, he wanted a war on London streets, that is not very courageous.'

Ingrid, who was born in France, said the stabbing of a French soldier near Paris
last week suggested there is a terrifying new 'trend' for attacking soldiers on
the streets of Europe.

She said: 'It is the same thing, it seems to me that there is a trend to attack
like this.

'But these soldiers, they have a life, a family, they are the son of somebody
and the father of somebody else. It is cowardly to do that.'

WOOLWICH SUSPECT, 21, DENIES ROLE IN LEE RIGBY'S MURDER

A 21-year-old arrested in connection with the murder of soldier Lee Rigby has
denied any involvement in the 'atrocity'.

Hayden Allen, who is reportedly a Muslim convert, was held on Saturday on
suspicion of conspiracy to commit murder by detectives from Scotland Yard's
Counter Terrorism Command.

Specialist firearms officers used a Taser on Allen as he was arrested in
Charlton Lane, in Greenwich, south east London, some three days after the
horrific killing of Drummer Rigby. He was later released on bail.

Allen, who is understood to have attended the same mosque as the two main
suspects, said: 'I had no prior knowledge of the atrocity that happened last
week and I played no part in the incident or the lead-up to it whatsoever.

'My family are wholly uninvolved. I ask that the police continue to investigate
and that my family be allowed without harassment to continue their lives.'

He added: 'I have been greatly distressed by all that has occurred.'

Meanwhile, a two-minute silence was held in memory of Drummer Rigby at the exact
time he was hacked to death last week.

Around 100 people - including parents with pushchairs, teenagers and mothers
coming back from the shops - gathered at the floral shrine at 2.20pm.

The normally busy road in Woolwich, south east London, fell silent and traffic
came to a standstill as the crowd spent a few moments in quiet contemplation.

Uniformed police officers held their caps in their hands out of respect as
locals hugged each other and some shed a tear for the murdered soldier.

Earlier police probing the soldier's murder issued a fresh appeal for any
witnesses to come forward - exactly a week after the soldier was hacked to
death.

Speaking outside Woolwich barracks just yards from where the young soldier was
killed, Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford said officers were in the
midst of a 'fast paced and complex' investigation.

He said: 'Seven days ago, Lee Rigby was murdered in an incident that was both
horrific and shocking.

'Our thoughts today are with his family and friends at this difficult time.

'A fast-paced and complex investigation us under way by the Met's counter
terrorism command.

'As part of that, officers are asking for the public's help and we would urge
anybody who witnessed Lee's attack or has other information that may assist the
investigation to come forward.'

Police are also calling for information on the blue Vauxhall Tigra, registration
N696 JWX, that hit Drummer Rigby last Wednesday afternoon.

Commander Letchford said police officers were patrolling Woolwich today and
handing out leaflets urging for witnesses to come forward if they have any
information that could help the police.

Police also urged anyone who filmed or took photographs to send the moving or
still images to woolwich@metincident.co.uk, including their name and contact
details, and not to delete them after sending them.

Commander Letchford also paid tribute to the help the British public have
already given the authorities about the killing of Drummer Rigby - but said they
were still hunting for more information to help the investigation.

He said: 'I would like to take this opportunity to thank the public for their
help and support.

'This has been a really difficult time for our city, it is important that as
Londoners we come together.

'I would urge people to remain calm and continue to show restraint as our
investigation continues to bring those responsible for Lee Rigby's death to
justice.'

He declined to answer any questions about the investigation.

Yesterday, relatives of Adebolajo released a statement sending their 'heartfelt
condolence' to Drummer Rigby's family, and saying there is no place for violence
in the name of religion.

The Adebolajo family said: 'Nothing we can say can undo the events of last week.

However, as a family, we wish to share with others our horror at the senseless
killing of Lee Rigby, and express our profound shame and distress that this has
brought to our family.

'We send our heartfelt condolence to Lee Rigby's family and loved ones.'

So far, 10 people have been held by detectives investigating the young soldier's
death, including Adebowale and Adebolajo.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 29, 2013 Wednesday 4:53 PM GMT

Angel of Woolwich returns to Lee Rigby's murder scene one week after the terror
attack which shocked Britain as police appeal for witnesses

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1172 words



     ·    Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, 48, brands attackers 'cowards' as she visit
          memorial
     ·    Overcome with emotion while looking at thousands of tributes to Lee
          Rigby
     ·    Hailed a hero after she was pictured talking to blood-spattered
          suspect
     ·    She said: 'It was instinctive, my brain was just telling me it was
          okay, I just wanted to keep him busy until the police got there'
     ·    Police hand out flyers in renewed appeal for information at murder
          scene
     ·    Two-minute silence held at 2.20pm, exactly a week on from soldier's
          death
     ·    Police officers who shot suspects could be back on duty within weeks


A brave woman hailed the 'Angel of Woolwich' after confronting one of Lee
Rigby's killers returned to the scene for the first time today and told of her
fears his murder will haunt her.

Cub Scout leader Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, 48, branded the killers 'cowards' as she
visited the spot where she tended the dying soldier for the first time since his
brutal murder.

She said she was overcome with emotion as she looked at the thousands of
colourful flowers and cards left as tributes.

The French-born heroine said: 'I'm not haunted. I have been talking about it so
often that I don't have time to think.

'But maybe when I'll be on my own something will happen; right now I don't have
time.

'I try to avoid that, I don't read anything and try not to watch too much
because I don't want to relive these potentially bad memories.'

The mother-of-two was hailed a hero after she was pictured confronting one of
the blood spattered men who allegedly hacked Drummer Rigby to death.

Visiting the scene for the first time, exactly a week after the brutal murder,
she said the thousands of tributes left in memory of Drummer Rigby were a
testament to the British public's determination to stand up to terrorists.

FIREARMS OFFICERS WILL BE BACK ON DUTY 'WITHIN WEEKS'

Three firearms officers involved in the shooting of the men suspected of
murdering soldier Lee Rigby could be back on duty within weeks.

The officers, along with two of their commanders, are currently undergoing post
shooting assessments and Chief Superintendent Alistair Sutherland, above, said
he 'certainly hopes' that they will return to normal duties soon.

He said: 'I will obviously speak to my counterparts in our department for
professional standards and I will liaise with the IPCC (Independent Police
Complaints Commission), and then I will come to a decision around putting them
back to ops.

'But at this stage I would anticipate them being back on operational duty fairly
quickly.'

Michael Adebowale, 22, and Michael Adebolajo, 28, were both shot by police in
the wake of Drummer Rigby's murder near Woolwich barracks in south east London
on May 22.

Yesterday Adebowale was discharged from hospital and taken into police custody
for questioning over the young soldier's murder and the attempted murder of a
police officer.

Adebolajo remains in hospital.

She said: 'It feels very emotional to see all the flowers, it is very, very
emotional.

'I am very breathless, my heart is pounding. This is the first time I've been
here.

'It is a great response from the British public that shows them that we won't
accept this, the other message is that we are behind Lee and his family.

'I feel very emotional, it has been a huge response from the British public.
They are saying 'we are behind our Army' and saying 'we won't stand for this -
don't kill like this, it is cowardly.'

Reliving the moment when she leapt off a bus to rush over to where Drummer
Rigby's body lay on the road, she said she didn't fear for her own safety and
her instincts took over.

She said: 'It was instinctive, my brain was just telling me it was okay, I just
wanted to keep him busy until the police got there.

'I didn't want any more people to die, I didn't want the children to get hurt.

'I just did what the right thing seemed to be at the time when I realised it
wasn't a road accident but a murder. I just thought 'I better keep him busy'.

'Something told me to stay and talk to him. He looked like he was somebody who
was nervous, either because they killed somebody by accident or intentionally.
Obviously he wanted the attention. He didn't do that for nothing.

'As I told the attacker, if he wants to fight British soldiers then join a
regular army. This is not the way to do it, it was cowardly.

'But no, he wanted a war on London streets, that is not very courageous.'

Ingrid, who was born in France, said the stabbing of a French soldier near Paris
last week suggested there is a terrifying new 'trend' for attacking soldiers on
the streets of Europe.

She said: 'It is the same thing, it seems to me that there is a trend to attack
like this.

'But these soldiers, they have a life, a family, they are the son of somebody
and the father of somebody else. It is cowardly to do that.'

Meanwhile, a two-minute silence was held in memory of Drummer Rigby at the exact
time he was hacked to death last week.

Around 100 people - including parents with pushchairs, teenagers and mothers
coming back from the shops - gathered at the floral shrine at 2.20pm.

The normally busy road in Woolwich, south east London, fell silent and traffic
came to a standstill as the crowd spent a few moments in quiet contemplation.

Uniformed police officers held their caps in their hands out of respect as
locals hugged each other and some shed a tear for the murdered soldier.

Earlier police probing the soldier's murder issued a fresh appeal for any
witnesses to come forward - exactly a week after the soldier was hacked to
death.

Speaking outside Woolwich barracks just yards from where the young soldier was
killed, Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford said officers were in the
midst of a 'fast paced and complex' investigation.

He said: 'Seven days ago, Lee Rigby was murdered in an incident that was both
horrific and shocking.

'Our thoughts today are with his family and friends at this difficult time.

'A fast-paced and complex investigation us under way by the Met's counter
terrorism command.

'As part of that, officers are asking for the public's help and we would urge
anybody who witnessed Lee's attack or has other information that may assist the
investigation to come forward.'

Commander Letchford said police officers were patrolling Woolwich today and
handing out leaflets urging for witnesses to come forward if they have any
information that could help the police.

He also paid tribute to the help the British public have already given the
authorities about the killing of Drummer Rigby - but said they were still
hunting for more information to help the investigation.

He said: 'I would like to take this opportunity to thank the public for their
help and support.

'This has been a really difficult time for our city, it is important that as
Londoners we come together.

'I would urge people to remain calm and continue to show restraint as our
investigation continues to bring those responsible for Lee Rigby's death to
justice.'

He declined to answer any questions about the investigation.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 29, 2013 Wednesday 4:35 PM GMT

Angel of Woolwich returns to Lee Rigby's murder scene one week after the terror
attack which shocked Britain as police appeal for witnesses

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 961 words



     ·    Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, 48, brands attackers 'cowards' as she visit
          memorial
     ·    Overcome with emotion while looking at thousands of tributes to Lee
          Rigby
     ·    Hailed a hero after she was pictured talking to blood-spattered
          suspect
     ·    She said: 'It was instinctive, my brain was just telling me it was
          okay, I just wanted to keep him busy until the police got there'
     ·    Police hand out flyers in renewed appeal for information at murder
          scene
     ·    Two-minute silence held at 2.20pm, exactly a week on from soldier's
          death


A brave woman hailed the 'Angel of Woolwich' after confronting one of Lee
Rigby's killers returned to the scene for the first time today and told of her
fears his murder will haunt her.

Cub Scout leader Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, 48, branded the killers 'cowards' as she
visited the spot where she tended the dying soldier for the first time since his
brutal murder.

She said she was overcome with emotion as she looked at the thousands of
colourful flowers and cards left as tributes.

The French-born heroine said: 'I'm not haunted. I have been talking about it so
often that I don't have time to think.

'But maybe when I'll be on my own something will happen; right now I don't have
time.

'I try to avoid that, I don't read anything and try not to watch too much
because I don't want to relive these potentially bad memories.'

The mother-of-two was hailed a hero after she was pictured confronting one of
the blood spattered men who hacked Drummer Rigby to death.

Visiting the scene for the first time, exactly a week after the brutal murder,
she said the thousands of tributes left in memory of Drummer Rigby were a
testament to the British public's determination to stand up to terrorists.

She said: 'It feels very emotional to see all the flowers, it is very, very
emotional.

'I am very breathless, my heart is pounding. This is the first time I've been
here.

'It is a great response from the British public that shows them that we won't
accept this, the other message is that we are behind Lee and his family.

'I feel very emotional, it has been a huge response from the British public.
They are saying 'we are behind our Army' and saying 'we won't stand for this -
don't kill like this, it is cowardly.'

Reliving the moment when she leapt off a bus to rush over to where Drummer
Rigby's body lay on the road, she said she didn't fear for her own safety and
her instincts took over.

She said: 'It was instinctive, my brain was just telling me it was okay, I just
wanted to keep him busy until the police got there.

'I didn't want any more people to die, I didn't want the children to get hurt.

'I just did what the right thing seemed to be at the time when I realised it
wasn't a road accident but a murder. I just thought 'I better keep him busy'.

'Something told me to stay and talk to him. He looked like he was somebody who
was nervous, either because they killed somebody by accident or intentionally.
Obviously he wanted the attention. He didn't do that for nothing.

'As I told the attacker, if he wants to fight British soldiers then join a
regular army. This is not the way to do it, it was cowardly.

'But no, he wanted a war on London streets, that is not very courageous.'

Ingrid, who was born in France, said the stabbing of a French soldier near Paris
last week suggested there is a terrifying new 'trend' for attacking soldiers on
the streets of Europe.

She said: 'It is the same thing, it seems to me that there is a trend to attack
like this.

'But these soldiers, they have a life, a family, they are the son of somebody
and the father of somebody else. It is cowardly to do that.'

Meanwhile, a two-minute silence was held in memory of Drummer Rigby at the exact
time he was hacked to death last week.

Around 100 people - including parents with pushchairs, teenagers and mothers
coming back from the shops - gathered at the floral shrine at 2.20pm.

The normally busy road in Woolwich, south east London, fell silent and traffic
came to a standstill as the crowd spent a few moments in quiet contemplation.

Uniformed police officers held their caps in their hands out of respect as
locals hugged each other and some shed a tear for the murdered soldier.

Earlier police probing the soldier's murder issued a fresh appeal for any
witnesses to come forward - exactly a week after the soldier was hacked to
death.

Speaking outside Woolwich barracks just yards from where the young soldier was
killed, Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford said officers were in the
midst of a 'fast paced and complex' investigation.

He said: 'Seven days ago, Lee Rigby was murdered in an incident that was both
horrific and shocking.

'Our thoughts today are with his family and friends at this difficult time.

'A fast-paced and complex investigation us under way by the Met's counter
terrorism command.

'As part of that, officers are asking for the public's help and we would urge
anybody who witnessed Lee's attack or has other information that may assist the
investigation to come forward.'

Commander Letchford said police officers were patrolling Woolwich today and
handing out leaflets urging for witnesses to come forward if they have any
information that could help the police.

He also paid tribute to the help the British public have already given the
authorities about the killing of Drummer Rigby - but said they were still
hunting for more information to help the investigation.

He said: 'I would like to take this opportunity to thank the public for their
help and support.

'This has been a really difficult time for our city, it is important that as
Londoners we come together.

'I would urge people to remain calm and continue to show restraint as our
investigation continues to bring those responsible for Lee Rigby's death to
justice.'

He declined to answer any questions about the investigation.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                             May 29, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Anti-terror police probe jail attack;
AROUND THE UK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 116 words


YORKSHIRE COUNTER-TERRORISM officers have been brought in to investigate an
attack on two prison officers at a maximum security jail.

A male warden was left with a broken cheekbone after being held hostage by three
male prisoners, two aged 25 and one aged 26, while a female prison officer
received minor injuries as she attempted to help her colleague.

The North-East Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU) has been called in to lead the
investigation into the incident at HMP Full Sutton in Yorkshire amid reports
that the inmates were Muslims inspired by the murder of soldier Drummer Lee
Rigby.

A statement from the unit said: "Inquiries are ongoing to establish the
circumstances surrounding the incident."

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             May 29, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror officers probe prison attack;
UKBULLETINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 96 words


COUNTER-TERRORISM officers have been brought in to investigate an attack on two
prison officers at a maximum security jail.

A male warden was left with a broken cheekbone after being held hostage by three
male prisoners, two aged 25 and one aged 26, while a female prison officer
received minor injuries as she attempted to help her colleague.

The North East Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU) has been called in to lead the
investigation into the incident at HMP Full Sutton in Yorkshire amid reports
that the inmates were Muslims inspired by the murder of soldier Drummer Lee
Rigby.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                             May 29, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Counter-terrorism officers investigate attack at high security jail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 322 words


Counter-terrorism officers have been brought in to investigate an attack on two
prison officers at a maximum security jail.

A male warder was left with a broken cheekbone after being held hostage by three
male prisoners, two aged 25 and one aged 26, while a female prison officer
received minor injuries as she attempted to help her colleague.

The North East Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU) has been called into lead the
investigation into the incident at HMP Full Sutton in Yorkshire amid reports
that the inmates were Muslims inspired by the murder of soldier Drummer Lee
Rigby.

A statement from the unit said: "Inquiries are ongoing to establish the
circumstances surrounding the incident. Given the potential nature of the
incident and the range of skills and expertise within the North East CTU, the
unit is leading the investigation at this time."

Both prison officers have received treatment for their injuries and have since
been discharged.

It was reported the attack was masterminded by Muslim fanatic Parviz Khan, who
is serving a life sentence for plotting to behead a British soldier, but it
later emerged he is not an inmate at Full Sutton. A Ministry of Justice
spokesman said: "An incident involving three prisoners took place at HMP Full
Sutton on May 26 from 4.25pm and was successfully resolved at 8.40pm after staff
intervened. A police investigation is ongoing." The attack comes amid increasing
tensions in the wake of the brutal killing of Drummer Rigby last week in
Woolwich, in London. Protests from differing factions on the streets of London,
attacks on mosques and vandalism against war memorials have all been triggered
by the horrifying incident.

Steve Gillan, general secretary of the Prison Officers Association (POA), said:
""We can confirm that officers sustained injuries and, had it not been for the
professionalism of prison officers dealing with this violent incident, the
outcome could have been worse."

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2013 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 30, 2013 Thursday

Belarusian KGB says recently prevented several terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 351 words


Text of report in English by Belarusian privately-owned news agency Belapan

Minsk, 30 May: The [Belarusian] Committee for State Security (KGB) has recently
managed to prevent several acts of terrorism, the committee's head, Valeryy
Vakulchyk, told the House of Representatives on Thursday [30 May].

Activists of Belarusian anarchist groups make active use of the information
about making bombs that is available online, Vakulchyk said. In 2009,
destructive online communities that call themselves Belarusian Insurgent Army
urged people to stage "local protests" to depose the current government, and
posted a link to a website that contains detailed instructions on making a
Molotov cocktail, he said.

According to investigators, Aleh Karpovich, leader of a radical group called
"Autonomous National Bolsheviks" who was sentenced to three years in prison in
2012, learned about making explosive devices from various websites, Vakulchyk
said.

In June 2012, a hard drive and CDs containing a video tutorial on making bombs
were seized from an activist of an anarchist organization in Baranavichy, Brest
Region, he said.

Mentally ill people often try to obtain such information, Vakulchyk noted. In
December 2012, "extremist material" was seized from Navapolatsk resident
Kazakow, who had sought bomb-making instructions, he said.

Between February 2007 and 2008, Martsinkevich, a student of Vitsebsk State
University used a website to share has theoretical and practical knowledge about
making explosive devices, Vakulchyk said.

On 31 December 2009, a resident of Homel by the name of Zykun posted a warning
that he was going to detonate an explosive device on the night between 31
December and 1 January, he said.

Various components for bomb-makers were discovered during a search of his home,
Vakulchyk said.

In a recent incident, which occurred on 25 May 2012, Kudrawtsaw, who lived in
Zhlobin, Mahilyow Region, tried to carry out an act of terrorism against a
police officer with the help of a Molotov cocktail and home-made explosive
devices, he said.

Source: Belapan news agency, Minsk, in English 1302 gmt 30 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 30, 2013 Thursday

Algerian policeman killed in "terrorist" attack near Bouira

LENGTH: 163 words


Text of by Faycal Hamdani headlined "Policeman killed by a terrorist group near
Bouira," published by Algerian electronic daily Tout sur l'Algerie website on 30
May

A policeman working for General Intelligence (RG) was killed this Thursday, 30
May, at about 0715 hours [local time] by a terrorist group in the spot known as
Trek Sridj, in the municipality of Souk Lekhmiss, located 40-so kilometres
northwest of Bouira, Tout sur l'Algerie has learned from a local security
source. The terrorists seized the victim's weapon before fleeing.

According to our source, the policeman, Abdelkarim Kernane, 30, was returning
home after having served on the graveyard shift at the daira of Souk Lekhmiss's
criminal police department.

He spotted some suspects that he tried to follow, after having alerted his
colleagues. But the terrorists quickly opened fire. Having been struck by three
bullets, he died immediately, the same source added.

Source: Tout sur l'Algerie website in French 30 May 13

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                             May 30, 2013 Thursday

Grandfather's dog attack terror

BYLINE: Amanda Alcock

SECTION: BOLTON NEWS (BOLTON NEWS)

LENGTH: 256 words


A GRANDFATHER is warning parents about a dangerous dog after he was attacked as
he was leaving a park.

Alan Platt was near the Chorley New Road entrance to Queens Park when a dog,
which he believes was a bull mastiff, broke free from its owner's control.

The animal jumped up and bit 69-year-old Mr Platt on his thigh, tearing through
his skin and leaving him with a wound.

The emergency services were called and he was taken to hospital, but is now
recovering at home in St Margaret's Close, Heaton .

The owner of the dog apologised to Mr Platt, but left the scene and police are
now trying to trace him. Mr Platt said the owner needs to be found before the
dog attacks a child.

He said: "I had been bowling with a friend and I was just leaving the park,
minding my own business, when this dog just ran over to me and jumped up and bit
my leg.

"It was painful and was a big shock. I was not expecting anything like that to
happen."

Mr Platt managed to fight off the dog by hitting it with his knee, and it backed
off.

He said: "It is very dangerous. If it had jumped up at a child it could have
ripped their throat out.

"I am very concerned that it could attack again and if it is a child they might
be more seriously injured. Fortunately I did not have to have stitches, but I
have big bite marks and bruises."

The incident happened between 2pm and 2.30pm on Monday.

The dog owner is described as a black man, about 5ft 9in and large build. The
dog is black and white.

He walked off towards Heaton.

Anyone with information can contact police on 101.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Dinnington Guardian

                             May 30, 2013 Thursday

Woolwich terror attack: Retford pays tribute to soldier Lee Rigby

BYLINE: Sam Chetwynd

LENGTH: 66  words


Hundreds of people gathered in Retford last night (Wednesday) to pay tribute to
solider Lee Rigby.

Residents of all ages came together in the Market Sqaure a week after Drummer
Rigby, 25, was stabbed to death in a street attack in Woolwich.

The gathering raised around £115 which will be split between Help For Hereos and
the Royal Fusiliers.

For more on the story see next week's Retford Guardian.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NDIG


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                             May 30, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'They barged past me into the porch , and that's when the one wearing a ski mask
pulled out a machete ';
Couple tell of attack terror

BYLINE: KERRY WOOD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 681 words


MASKED men armed with a machete left a pensioner with a cut head in a bizarre
attack on his Tyneside home.

David Paul, 66, was watching TV with his partner when he answered the doorbell
of their bungalow.

But as he answered the door, he was confronted by the ski-masked men, one of
whom pulled the machete from under his coat.

Reeling from the terrifying doorstep attack, Mr Paul and partner Kathleen
O'Connor, 60, told how they feared they'd die at the hands of the gang.

With blood still on their living room floor and the front door hanging off its
hinges, the couple relived the ordeal and said they were simply desperate to get
some normality back into their lives.

Ms O'Connor, who suffers from breathing difficulties caused by chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, said: "I was terrified, I thought he was going to
die.

"I didn't want David to challenge them, but he wouldn't let me past and was
shouting to phone the police. I'm in shock about the whole thing."

The couple's ordeal began just after 8pm on Tuesday when they were watching TV.

Mr Paul said: "The doorbell rang so I got up, and when I opened the door there
were three masked nutters stood on the doorstep. I had no time to think. It was
still light outside and there they were on the doorstep masked. They barged past
me into the porch area, and that's when the one wearing a ski mask pulled out a
machete from his coat.

"They were trying to push past me to get into the living room shouting 'We're
not frightened of you or the police,' but I wouldn't let them past me. I was
shouting for Kathleen to run next door and call the police."

Still brandishing the knife the masked raiders grappled with Mr Paul, punching
him in the head and shoving him into the living room door of the bungalow.

Desperate to block them from getting in, Mr Paul continued to try and push them
out of his home shouting that police were on their way.

The men then fled from the property, one in a row of bungalows in the quiet
Hillside in The Lonnen, South Shields.

With their home just a few streets away from the prestigious Cleadon Towers
development - where properties sell for in excess of £500,000 - the couple said
they have no clue why they were targeted. Mr Paul said: "I don't know what they
were after, perhaps it was the wrong address. No-one seems to know. It all
happened so quickly, but we've nothing here worth taking. After the initial
shock I was just trying to get them out of the house, and now I've been left
angry that they thought they could come to our home in daylight and force their
way in."

The attacker, who made off towards The Lonnen with one of them on a small
bicycle, have all been described to police as white.

One wore a black coat and black ski mask, a second was about 30 and wore a blue.
hooded top and grey tracksuit bottoms while the third man wore a blue coat,
black woolen hat and black scarf around his face.

A police spokesman said: "All three men may also have been in the company of a
man wearing a florescent orange jacket prior to the incident."

Anyone with information or who saw the men in the area of Hillside or The Lonnen
is asked to contact police on 101 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

Tragedy over grandson THE attack is the latest ordeal for Ms O'Connor, whose
grandson Darren O'Connor died in July, 2010, after being taken into police
custody at South Shields.

The 19-year-old, who required a tracheotomy after being left partially paralysed
by a road accident in 2007, had been arrested by officers on July 6 for a breach
of bail.

An inquest is ongoing at South Tyneside Magistrates' Court into the teenager's
death.

Earlier this week the inquest heard Darren had been caught in South Shields town
centre later than his electronic tag allowed.

Brought into custody he was discovered with breathing difficulties and taken to
hospital, where he died.

His mum, Michelle, said Darren knew the dangers of removing the tracheotomy.

In a statement read out to the court, Dr Consultant David Meikle said the
teenager knew removing the tube would not immediately render him unable to
breathe, but could be fatal.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ORDEAL David Paul, 66, and his partner Kathleen, 60

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2013 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 30, 2013 Thursday 5:41 PM GMT

Drummer Lee Rigby murder: Bandaged and handcuffed, Michael Adebowale, 22, makes
brief appearance at Westminster Magistrates Court accused over Woolwich terror
attack;
Adebowale was shot by armed police after a British army soldier was hacked to
death outside the Woolwich barracks last week

BYLINE: Cahal Milmo

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 431 words


Michael Adebowale, the man accused of the murder of soldier Lee Rigby, made his
first appearance in court today while restrained in handcuffs.

The 22-year-old sat flanked by two plainclothes police officers as he entered
the glass-fronted dock at Westminster Magistrates' Court in central London amid
tight security.

Adebowale, who was released into police custody on Tuesday after undergoing
treatment for injuries suffered during the incident in Woolwich last week,
appeared to walk without a pronounced limp but carried a bandaged right hand as
he entered court.

The Muslim convert sat quietly during the brief hearing, answering "yes" when
asked to confirm his name, date of birth and address in Greenwich, south east
London. He glanced briefly towards the media crowded inside the modern court
room but remained expressionless throughout proceedings.

The defendant is believed to have lost at least one finger during the incident
and was shot by armed police following the death of Drummer Rigby last
Wednesday. Adebowale was discharged from hospital into police custody following
six days of treatment.

Howard Riddle, the chief magistrate, told Adebowale, who arrived and departed
from court in an armoured Metropolitan Police van with an escort of police Range
Rovers and BMWs, that he was excused from standing because of his injuries.

Mr Riddle said: "There's no need to stand, Mr Adebowale. I understand you have
been injured."

The former student, dressed in a grey sweatshirt and baggy white cotton
trousers, is charged with murdering Drummer Rigby and possession of an illegal
firearm, a 9.4mm KNIL Model 91 revolver, "to cause persons to believe that
unlawful violence would be used".

Michael Adebolajo, 28, the second suspect in the killing, remains in hospital.
He is believed to have sustained more serious injuries than Adebowale.

A post-mortem examination found that Drummer Rigby, 25, a father of one, died of
"multiple incised wounds" after the attack on a street close to the barracks
where he was based.

An inquest into his death is due to be formally opened tomorrow at Southwark
Coroner's Court in central London.

Adebowale, who was told the charges against him are being treated as alleged
terrorism offences,  will appear at the Old Bailey on Monday. There will be
further hearing on 28 June.

Police this week issued a renewed appeal for witnesses and footage of the attack
in which Drummer Rigby was hacked to death. Eight other people have so far been
arrested in connection with the incident, all of whom have been released either
on bail or with no further action.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 30, 2013 Thursday 5:06 PM GMT

Drummer Lee Rigby murder: Bandaged and handcuffed, Michael Adebowale, 22, makes
brief appearance at Westminster Magistrates Court accused over Woolwich terror
attack;
Adebowale was shot by armed police after a British army soldier was hacked to
death outside the Woolwich barracks last week

BYLINE: Cahal Milmo, Rob Williams

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 441 words


Michael Adebowale, one of the suspects in the murder of soldier Lee Rigby, today
appeared in court in handcuffs.

The 22-year-old was flanked by police officers as he sat in the dock at
Westminster Magistrates Court dressed in a green sweat shirt and white baggy
trousers.

The decision to bring the Muslim convert into court wearing handcuffs was made
following an application by prosecutors.

Adebowale, of Greenwich, south east London, who appeared to have a bandage on
one hand, walked into court without apparent difficulty.

During the brief hearing amid tight security, Adebowale answered "yes" when
asked to confirm his name, date of birth and address.

He is charged with a single count of murdering Drummer Rigby in Woolwich, south
east London, last Wednesday and a second count of possession of a firearm.

He was told the nature of the charges against him meant his case would be
treated as alleged terrorism offences.

He will appear in court again in Monday ahead of an appearance at the Old Bailey
on 29 June.

Adebowale, 22, was shot by armed police after the British army soldier was
hacked to death outside the Woolwich barracks last week.

The Metropolitan Police Service's Counter Terrorism Command said last night they
have been authorised to charge him with the murder of Drummer Rigby.

Sue Hemming, head of the CPS Special Crime and Counter-Terrorism Division, said:
"Crown prosecutors have been working with the investigators of Counter Terrorism
Command since the killing of Drummer Lee Rigby on 22 May.

"Following the release of Michael Adebowale from hospital, we have authorised
the police to charge him with the murder of Drummer Rigby.

"We have also authorised police to charge him with possession of a firearm,
contrary to section 16A of the Firearms Act 1968.

"There is sufficient evidence to prosecute Michael Adebowale and it is in the
public interest to do so."

"This man is now charged with serious criminal offences and he has the right to
a fair trial. It is extremely important that nothing should be reported which
could prejudice this trial," she added.

Michael Adebolajo, 28, was also shot in the incident in south-east London - he
remains in hospital.

A number of other suspects have been arrested during the course of the week.

In a statement issued through Scotland Yard the fiancee of Drummer Rigby said
she was "devastated" by his loss and has been moved by all the tributes to a
"great man".

A minutes silence was held in Woolwich yesterday at 14.20 BST exactly a week
after the incident.

Police have so far arrested eight other people in connection with the
investigation. Six have been bailed and two released without charge.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 30, 2013 Thursday 2:23 PM GMT

Woolwich terror attack: Serving soldier Sergeant Glen Hughes to 'stand in' for
Tommy Robinson in sponsored walk after Help for Heroes ban on EDL fundraising;
Sgt Glen Hughes will be walking the 17-mile stretch on Saturday

BYLINE: Chloe Hamilton

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 398 words


EDL leader Tommy Robinson has allegedly recruited a serving army sergeant to
take his place on a walk in memory of murdered soldier Lee Rigby, in an attempt
to evade a ban on political parties donating to charity Help for Heroes.

Sgt Glen Hughes, a serving Colour Sergeant with 16 years of service, will
complete the walk from Westminster to Woolwich on Saturday June 29th, although
it is unclear whether he has actually agreed to officially stand in for
Robinson.

Robinson had planned the 17-mile walk to raise money for Help for Heroes,
however the armed forces charity have rejected EDL donations, saying they do not
allow "political fundraising".

In a post on the EDL Facebook page, Robinson said Hughes would be taking his
place on the 17-mile walk, while he follows behind with refreshments.

He asked supporters to "stick two fingers up at political correctness" and
donate money, before providing a link to Hughes' Just Giving page which shows
the sergeant has raised nearly £2,400 for Help for Heroes so far.

Hughes, who claims to be "part of no group", said on Twitter he was doing the
walk in the hope that money would not be wasted because people have a problem
with the EDL.

In a tweet that has since been deleted, Hughes said: "@EDLTrobinson Being in the
forces this is dangerous enough for me but fuck it, enough is enough
#queen&country #EDL #seeyoumonday RT".

In a further series of tweets yesterday Hughes appeared to debunk the claim that
he is marching in place of Robinson, saying: "I have never been a member of the
EDL nor have I ever supported them.

"In the wake of the publicity surrounding the Westminster to Woolwich walk on
Armed Forces Day, I planned to conduct my own walk to raise money for Help for
Heroes.

"In the last 24 hours I believe my Just Giving page has been re-published on
social media against my will and in a manner that has brought my reputation into
disrepute."

According to the Ministry of Defence, serving soldiers cannot be affiliated in
fundraising endeavours with groups with a political agenda.

A spokesperson said: "Regular Service personnel are not to take any active part
in the affairs of any political organisation, party or movement and they are not
to participate in political marches or demonstrations.

"Racism of any kind is completely unacceptable. It impacts on operational
effectiveness by damaging individual morale and team cohesion."

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       May 30, 2013 Thursday 10:31 AM GMT

Woolwich terror attack: Suspect Michael Adebowale in court over Drummer Lee
Rigby's murder;
Woolwich suspect will appear in Westminster Magistrates' Court to face a charge
of murder and of illegal possession of a firearm

BYLINE: Lewis Smith

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 604 words


One of the two men shot by armed police after Drummer Lee Rigby was hacked to
death in Woolwich has been charged with his murder.

Michael Adebowale is appearing in Westminster Magistrates' Court this morning
where he will face a charge of murder and of illegal possession of a firearm.

The decision to charge him, the day after he was discharged from hospital, was
announced late tonight by the Crown Prosecution Service following discussions
with anti-terrorist police.

Sue Hemming, head of the CPS Special Crime and Counter-Terrorism Division, said
it had been agreed there was sufficient evidence to justify the charge.

"Following the release of Michael Adebowale from hospital, we have authorised
the police to charge him with the murder of Drummer Rigby," she said.

"We have also authorised police to charge him with possession of a firearm,
contrary to section 16A of the Firearms Act 1968. There is sufficient evidence
to prosecute Michael Adebowale and it is in the public interest to do so. He
will appear at Westminster Magistrates' Court tomorrow, Thursday 30 May."

She added that as Adebowale has now been charged he "has a right to a fair
trial" and as such she urged that nothing be reported that could prejudice the
trial. Her warning was aimed as much as the new media, such as Twitter and
Facebook, as traditional news outlets.

Michael Adebolajo, the other man shot by police on 22 May, remains in hospital
and at least eight other people have been arrested as part of the inquiry. The
CPS said it was continuing to advise police in relation to the suspects arrested
during their investigation into Drummer Rigby's death.

The announcement of the first murder charge in relation to Drummer Rigby's death
came just hours after the soldier's fiancée paid tribute to him as a "great
man".

In a short statement Aimee West said: "I am devastated by the loss of Lee who
was a loving fiance. I am extremely proud of him and I am moved by all the
flowers and tributes, and that he has been remembered by the nation as the great
man that he was."

As it was confirmed that he died of multiple stab wounds police made a fresh
appeal for witnesses to come forward.

Commander Simon Letchford  said: "A fast-paced and complex investigation is now
under way led by detectives from the Met's Counter Terrorism Command.

"As part of that investigation, officers are asking for the public's help. We
need to hear from anyone who may have seen Lee being attacked or who may have
any other information that may help.

"This has been a difficult time for everyone in our city. What is important now
is that we, as Londoners, come together.

"I would urge people to continue to show restraint and calm as our investigation
continues to bring those responsible for Lee's death to justice."

It was also revealed that thepolice marksmen involved in shooting two suspects
could be back on duty within weeks.

Chief Superintendent Alistair Sutherland said: "I will obviously speak to my
counterparts in our department for professional standards and I will liaise with
the IPCC (Independent Police Complaints Commission), and then I will come to a
decision around putting them back to ops.

"But at this stage, I would anticipate them being back on operational duty
fairly quickly."

The officers, along with two of their commanders, are currently undergoing
post-shooting assessments.

The IPCC is currently investigating the circumstances surrounding the shooting
of the two men. It said that two police officers had fired gun shots and one
used their Taser when they were confronted.

An inquest into Drummer Rigby's death will be opened and adjourned on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       May 30, 2013 Thursday 12:14 AM GMT

Angel of Woolwich returns to Lee Rigby's murder scene one week after the terror
attack which shocked Britain as police appeal for witnesses

BYLINE: LARISA BROWN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1677 words



     ·    Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, 48, brands attackers 'cowards' as she visit
          memorial
     ·    Overcome with emotion while looking at thousands of tributes to Lee
          Rigby
     ·    Hailed a hero after she was pictured talking to blood-spattered
          suspect
     ·    She said: 'It was instinctive, my brain was just telling me it was
          okay, I just wanted to keep him busy until the police got there'
     ·    Police hand out flyers in renewed appeal for information at murder
          scene
     ·    Post-mortem exam revealed soldier, 25, died from multiple stab wounds
     ·    Two-minute silence held at 2.20pm, exactly a week on from soldier's
          death
     ·    Police officers who shot suspects could be back on duty within weeks
     ·    Suspect, 21, arrested over murder denies any involvement in the
          'atrocity'
     ·    Lee Rigby's 'devastated' fiancee tonight paid tribute to a 'great man'


She became known as the Angel of Woolwich after she jumped off a bus to confront
the killers of Drummer Lee Rigby.

Yesterday Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, 48, returned to the scene where she calmly
talked to one of the attackers as he stood clutching a knife with bloodied
hands.

The teacher and former Girl Guides' leader branded the killers 'cowards' and
spoke of her sadness as she looked at the thousands of flowers and cards left as
tributes.

Scroll down for video

Visiting the spot in south west London a week after the slaying, the
mother-of-two said: 'It feels very emotional to see all the flowers, it is very,
very emotional.

'I am very breathless, my heart is pounding. This is the first time I've been
here. It has been a huge response from the British public. They are saying, "we
are behind our Army" and saying, "we won't stand for this - don't kill like
this, it is cowardly".'

The Frenchwoman, who has lived in Britain for almost 30 years, has been thrust
into the media spotlight since she confronted one of the two alleged murderers.

Ms Loyau-Kennett, from Helston, in Cornwall, got off the bus on which she was
travelling last Wednesday when she thought Drummer Rigby had been injured in a
car accident.

But after feeling the soldier's pulse, one of the two alleged killers approached
and told her to get away from the body.

At that point she noticed his 'red hands, a bloodied revolver, bloodied meat
cleaver and a butcher's knife'.

SOLDIER'S FIANCEE PAYS TRIBUTE TO A 'GREAT MAN'

The fiancee of murdered soldier Lee Rigby said tonight that she is 'devastated'
by his loss and has been moved by all the tributes to a 'great man'.

Aimee West released a short statement through Scotland Yard to say: 'I am
devastated by the loss of Lee who was a loving fiance.

'I am extremely proud of him and I am moved by all the flowers and tributes, and
that he has been remembered by the nation as the great man that he was.

'I ask that mine and my family's privacy is respected during this difficult
time.'

Piles of floral tributes have been left near where Drummer Rigby was hacked to
death in Woolwich, south east London, last week.

But instead of taking flight, she described how her instincts instantly took
over and she tried to keep the attacker busy until the police arrived - with
little fear for her own safety.

'I didn't want any more people to die, I didn't want the children to get hurt,'
she said. 'Something told me to stay and talk to him.

'He looked like he was somebody who was nervous, either because they killed
somebody by accident or intentionally. Obviously he wanted the attention. He
didn't do that for nothing.

'As I told the attacker, if he wants to fight British soldiers then join a
regular army. This is not the way to do it, it was cowardly.

'But no, he wanted a war on London streets, that is not very courageous.'

She added: 'I wondered if he thought one murder might not be enough to get
attention, maybe he needed to kill a second time. I didn't want him to think
that.'

Ms Loyau-Kennett now tries to avoid thinking about the incident.

'I don't read anything and try not to watch too much because I don't want to
relive these potentially bad memories,' she added.

WOOLWICH SUSPECT, 21, DENIES ROLE IN LEE RIGBY'S MURDER

A 21-year-old arrested in connection with the murder of soldier Lee Rigby has
denied any involvement in the 'atrocity'.

Hayden Allen, who is reportedly a Muslim convert, was held on Saturday on
suspicion of conspiracy to commit murder by detectives from Scotland Yard's
Counter Terrorism Command.

Specialist firearms officers used a Taser on Allen as he was arrested in
Charlton Lane, in Greenwich, south east London, some three days after the
horrific killing of Drummer Rigby. He was later released on bail.

Allen, who is understood to have attended the same mosque as the two main
suspects, said: 'I had no prior knowledge of the atrocity that happened last
week and I played no part in the incident or the lead-up to it whatsoever.

'My family are wholly uninvolved. I ask that the police continue to investigate
and that my family be allowed without harassment to continue their lives.'

He added: 'I have been greatly distressed by all that has occurred.'

Ingrid, who was born in France, said the stabbing of a French soldier near Paris
last week suggested there is a terrifying new 'trend' for attacking soldiers on
the streets of Europe.

She said: 'It is the same thing, it seems to me that there is a trend to attack
like this.

'But these soldiers, they have a life, a family, they are the son of somebody
and the father of somebody else. It is cowardly to do that.'

Lee Rigby's fiancee Aimee West last night released a statement saying that she
has been left 'devastated' by the death of a 'great man'.

In a statement released through Scotland Yard, she said:'I am devastated by the
loss of Lee who was a loving fiance.

'I am extremely proud of him and I am moved by all the flowers and tributes, and
that he has been remembered by the nation as the great man that he was.

'I ask that mine and my family's privacy is respected during this difficult
time.'

Meanwhile, a two-minute silence was held in memory of Drummer Rigby at the exact
time he was hacked to death last week.

Around 100 people - including parents with pushchairs, teenagers and mothers
coming back from the shops - gathered at the floral shrine at 2.20pm.

The normally busy road in Woolwich, south east London, fell silent and traffic
came to a standstill as the crowd spent a few moments in quiet contemplation.

Uniformed police officers held their caps in their hands out of respect as
locals hugged each other and some shed a tear for the murdered soldier.

Earlier police probing the soldier's murder issued a fresh appeal for any
witnesses to come forward - exactly a week after the soldier was hacked to
death.

Speaking outside Woolwich barracks just yards from where the young soldier was
killed, Metropolitan Police Commander Simon Letchford said officers were in the
midst of a 'fast paced and complex' investigation.

He said: 'Seven days ago, Lee Rigby was murdered in an incident that was both
horrific and shocking.

'Our thoughts today are with his family and friends at this difficult time.

'A fast-paced and complex investigation us under way by the Met's counter
terrorism command.

'As part of that, officers are asking for the public's help and we would urge
anybody who witnessed Lee's attack or has other information that may assist the
investigation to come forward.'

Police are also calling for information on the blue Vauxhall Tigra, registration
N696 JWX, that hit Drummer Rigby last Wednesday afternoon.

Commander Letchford said police officers were patrolling Woolwich and handing
out leaflets urging for witnesses to come forward if they have any information
that could help the police.

FIREARMS OFFICERS WILL BE BACK ON DUTY 'WITHIN WEEKS'

Three firearms officers involved in the shooting of the men suspected of
murdering soldier Lee Rigby could be back on duty within weeks.

The officers, along with two of their commanders, are currently undergoing post
shooting assessments and Chief Superintendent Alistair Sutherland, above, said
he 'certainly hopes' that they will return to normal duties soon.

He said: 'I will obviously speak to my counterparts in our department for
professional standards and I will liaise with the IPCC (Independent Police
Complaints Commission), and then I will come to a decision around putting them
back to ops.

'But at this stage I would anticipate them being back on operational duty fairly
quickly.'

Police also urged anyone who filmed or took photographs to send the moving or
still images to woolwich@metincident.co.uk, including their name and contact
details, and not to delete them after sending them.

Commander Letchford also paid tribute to the help the British public have
already given the authorities about the killing of Drummer Rigby - but said they
were still hunting for more information to help the investigation.

He said: 'I would like to take this opportunity to thank the public for their
help and support.

'This has been a really difficult time for our city, it is important that as
Londoners we come together.

'I would urge people to remain calm and continue to show restraint as our
investigation continues to bring those responsible for Lee Rigby's death to
justice.'

He declined to answer any questions about the investigation.

Relatives of Adebolajo released a statement sending their 'heartfelt condolence'
to Drummer Rigby's family, and saying there is no place for violence in the name
of religion.

The Adebolajo family said: 'Nothing we can say can undo the events of last week.

However, as a family, we wish to share with others our horror at the senseless
killing of Lee Rigby, and express our profound shame and distress that this has
brought to our family.

'We send our heartfelt condolence to Lee Rigby's family and loved ones.'

So far, 10 people have been held by detectives investigating the young soldier's
death, including Adebowale and Adebolajo.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Plymouth Herald

                             May 30, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

City collection in wake of terror attack raises £600 for Heroes charity

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 269 words


A RETIRED police superintendent has said the people of Plymouth sent out a
"powerful, dignified and heartfelt message" in memory of murdered soldier Lee
Rigby at the weekend. Sixty-six-year-old Roger Mechan, who lives near Yelverton,
held a bucket collection for charity Help for Heroes following the terror attack
in Woolwich last Wednesday.

On Saturday kind-hearted city residents donated over £600 in just eight hours.

Roger said: "Many people were clearly distressed over what had happened and
wanted to talk about it while others contributed with a nod of sympathy and a
steely determination to carry on.

"I have undertaken a number of street collections but this was one of the more
emotional."

Roger has raised thousands of pounds for Help for Heroes over the last two years
by trekking through back roads in Europe.

He said he had initially planned to hold the collection in August but decided to
bring it forward following the attack.

Over the last two years Roger has been trekking the back roads and pilgrim
tracks of Europe to raise money for the charity.

He has tramped over a thousand miles across Spain and France following in the
footsteps of Charlemagne along the Camino Frances to Santiago de Compostela, and
has also walked the Robert Louis Stevenson trail.

Next month Mr Mechan is following the ghost of Napoleon 220 miles along the
canal the French general built between Nantes and Brest. He hopes to increase
the £3,600 his efforts have already amassed to £5,000.

"I was brought up with soldiers and I have the utmost respect for what they've
done in the past and what they continue to do today," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ Roger Mechan who has raised thousands of pounds for Help for Heroes
over the last two years by trekking throughEurope

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PLH


                       Copyright 2013 The Plymouth Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Retford Times series

                                  May 30, 2013

Police reassure residents in wake of terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 294  words


"WE are doing all we can to keep you safe" - that is the message to Notts people
from the county's police force after the brutal killing of a soldier in London.

Notts Police moved to calm any fears of copy-cat hate crime in the county after
two men were arrested over the murder of Drummer and father-of-one Lee Rigby.

Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale, who were shot by police at the scene
and are in hospital under armed guard, are suspected of the killing in Woolwich.

"We monitor current events both nationally and internationally in a bid to be
informed, prepared and able to respond, where necessary, to best protect the
residents of Notts," said a force spokesman.

"The attack in Woolwich is a prime example of an incident which has
understandably affected and unnerved people across the country, if not the
world. It would be remiss of us not to respond to potential concerns in our
communities.

"As always, we are doing all we can to keep you safe. In partnership with the
local authorities, we operate robust high-visibility police and community
protection patrols on a daily basis to deter crime and provide reassurance in
our neighbourhoods, and we will continue to do so."

The force said there have been no incidents reported in Notts as a result of
last Wednesday's (May 22) events in Woolwich.

"We will not tolerate any actions that may cause harassment or fear in our
communities or compromise the safety of the public," the spokesman added.

If you feel you have been a victim of any form of discrimination or harassment,
you can call Stop Hate UK on 0800 138 1625.

Otherwise report it or any suspicious activity to Notts Police immediately on
101 or call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

In an emergency, or if a crime is taking place, call 999.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 91


                    Copyright 2013 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 30, 2013 Thursday 9:24 AM GMT

Woolwich attack: anti-terror funding cut in borough where Drummer Lee Rigby was
killed;
Theresa May, the Home Secretary, withdrew funding to combat terrorism in the
area where Drummer Lee Rigby was murdered, because it was deemed at low risk of
extremism, it has emerged.

BYLINE: By Alice Philipson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 277 words


The London borough of Greenwich, where Drummer Rigby was hacked to death as he
returned to his Army barracks last Wednesday, lost its financial support for
anti-extremist measures after a risk assessment carried out by the Office for
Security and Counter Terrorism.

Among the projects cut was a programme which brought together young people aged
14 to 19 with Muslim soldiers, Gurkha warriors and veterans of World War Two,
according to The Times (£).

Greenwich, home to Michael Adebowale, who has been charged with Drummer Rigby's
murder, was originally part of the Government's Prevent strategy and received
more than £500,000 during the first four years of the programme.

Most of the money went into a race equality programme organised through Charlton
Athletic Football Club and to sports and arts projects designed to "promote
cohesion and increase community resilience to radicalisation".

However, the borough was not part of a revised list of 25 areas selected on the
perceived threat of terrorism and its anti-terror funding was cut for a year.

Although Greenwich was once again placed on the list a year later, the project
has so far failed to provide finance for young people in the area.

The council said funding was withdrawn because the Government "did not consider
that the intelligence warranted Greenwich being named a priority area."

A Home Office spokesman said: "Over two years, the Government has made £3
million available annually for Prevent work in priority areas. We work closely
with local authorities in these areas to engage with faith institutions, civil
society groups and others, to tackle the radicalisation of vulnerable people."

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  West Briton

                                  May 30, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I just acted by instinct after Woolwich horror;
My Brownie leader training helped me step in after alleged terror attack, says
Ingrid

BYLINE: Jason Lock jason

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 697 words


HELSTON woman Ingrid Loyau-Kennett says she is not a heroine - but many would
beg to disagree after they saw her confront the suspected killers of Drummer Lee
Rigby last week. She attracted international praise and admiration from folk who
were impressed by her courage - including Prime Minister David Cameron.

Ingrid's image was broadcast worldwide as news of the atrocity spread.

Within hours it emerged that she was from Helston.

Speaking for the first time after arriving home, she told the West Briton her
intervention was just down to natural instinct.

The mum of two, 48, who lives in Bulwark Road in the town, says she was "on
autopilot" when she jumped off a double-decker bus to administer first aid to
Drummer Rigby in John Wilson Street, Woolwich, on May 22.

She pushed her way through people trying to board the bus, hurried over to
Drummer Rigby and checked for a pulse.

When she looked up, she said a man with bloodied hands was standing over her
holding a revolver in one hand and two knives in the other.

Drummer Rigby, a soldier in the 2nd Battalion, the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers,
had allegedly been the victim of a brutal terrorist attack.

Mrs Loyau-Kennett, born in France and a qualified teacher who is currently
looking for work as a translator, said: "I was just doing what was right; I'm no
hero.

"I didn't have any time to register if I was scared or not. All I wanted to do
was help the person in the road and keep as much attention on me as possible; I
didn't want anyone else to get hurt. That's all I was thinking.

"He told me he had killed a British soldier, because they were 'killing soldiers
in Islamic countries'.

"I asked what difference this would make in the long run - he was just one man
and we are many." She said a crowd had gathered and people were using their
mobile phones to record footage of the incident. She described one of Mr Rigby's
alleged attackers as "very animated" while he talked to a lot of people in the
gathered crowd. The other, she said, was very placid.

Mrs Loyau-Kennett spent ten minutes talking to the alleged killers - and then
got back on the bus to continue her journey, saying she felt she had done all
she could.

It was then that the police moved in.

"It must have been seconds after I boarded the bus that I heard gunfire," she
said.

"Around eight to ten police cars mobilised very fast and shots were fired."

The bus erupted in screaming at that point.

She again took matters into her own hands by attempting to defuse the panic on
board the bus. Calm "The passengers started to scream, but I told everyone to
calm down and that it was all over," she said.

Mrs Loyau-Kennett was returning home to Helston after visiting her two children,
Basil and Pawony, in London, and was heading for Victoria Coach Station. Basil
and Pawony had left their home early in the morning to go job-hunting in central
London.

She met up with them again at Victoria, where she told them her remarkable story
over a coffee in a nearby McDonald's.

She said: "My son was very shocked; he kept saying I could have been killed, but
I didn't feel that was the case. Pawony was very quiet; I think she was just
taking it all in."

Ingrid said her decision to intervene might have been down to her 30 years with
the Girl Guides, for 8 of which she was a Snowy Owl Brownie leader in Ipswich,
making her natural instinct kick in.

"We're taught how to deal with emergency situations," she said.

"One of the first things we're told as a Brownie leader is to make sure all the
girls are safe, not to panic and remain calm."

Mrs Loyau-Kennett insists she doesn't think she's worthy to be called a heroine.

The real heroes, she said, were those such as her grandfather Basil Kennett, who
was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for his services as an RAF pilot
during the Second World War.

After hugging her children goodbye, Ingrid boarded a bus from Victoria Coach
Station and began her five-hour journey home - but arrived at Plymouth's
Bretonside bus station to find a taxi waiting to bring her back to London for an
interview with ITV.

She said: "It's been a bit of a whirlwind."

HAVE YOUR SAY Do you think Ingrid is a heroine? Comment online at
westbriton.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ Ingrid Loyau-Kennett, who confronted one of the alleged attackers in
the incident in Woolwich. www.westbriton.co.uk/buyaphoto

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WBR


                           Copyright 2013 West Briton
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                        May 31, 2013 Friday 10:31 AM GMT

Family 'proud' of soldier Lee Rigby murdered in Woolwich terror attack

BYLINE: By Pat Hurst

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 810 words


The tearful family of murdered soldier Lee Rigby today spoke of their pride for
him.

His wife Rebecca and stepfather Ian Rigby fought back tears as they spoke on
behalf of the tragic 25-year-old's whole family, at a press conference at the
Regimental HQ of his unit, the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers at Bury in Greater
Manchester.

Rebecca Rigby, mother of their two-year-old son Jack, said: "I love Lee and
always will. I am proud to be his wife and he was due to come up this weekend so
we could continue our future together as a family."

Drummer Rigby, from Langley, in Middleton, Greater Manchester, was from 2nd
Battalion, The Royal Regiment of Fusiliers, had served in Afghanistan and was
attached to the Regimental Recruiting Team when he was hacked to death in broad
daylight on Wednesday afternoon in Woolwich, south-east London.

Two suspects were shot and arrested at the scene and remain in police custody.

Mrs Rigby, sobbing back tears, added: "He was a devoted father to our son Jack
and we will both miss him terribly."

Asked about the shock of the attack being on British soil, she added: "You don't
expect it to happen when he's in the UK. You think they're safe.

"His proudest moments were serving in London on the ceremonials with the drum
corps."

Lee's stepfather Ian read out a statement on behalf of and prepared by the whole
family: "What can we say about Lee, our hero, we are so so proud of Lee.

"When Lee was born the family adored him, he was a precious gift given to us.

"Lee had a fiery temper when he was younger, I used to sit on him to calm him
down till he got too big at 15, then he used to sit on me.

"Lee's dream growing up was always to join the army which he succeeded in doing,
he was dedicated and loved his job."

"Lee adored and cared a lot for his family, he was very much a family man,
looking out for his wife, young son Jack, younger sisters, whom in turn they
looked up to him, he always had a banter with them but would never ever let any
harm come to them.

"He was over the moon being a dad and uncle, he adored them all."

Mr Rigby, 54, at times swallowing hard and breathing in to contain his emotions,
continued: "Lee was a man who loved people. He had many friends growing up in
Middleton and on army duties all over the world.

"He believed life was for living and he will be sorely missed by all who knew
him.

"Courtney and Amy his younger sisters wrote this for Lee: 'Rest in Peace Lee, we
loved you so much, you didn't deserve this, you fought for your country and did
it well.

"You will always be our hero we are just upset you left us so early. Love you
Lee, goodnight.'

"The last text he sent to his mum read, 'Goodnight mum, I hope you had a
fantastic day today because you are the most fantastic and one in a million mum
that anyone could ever wish for. Thank you for supporting me all these years,
you're not just my mum you're my best friend. So goodnight, love you loads."

Mr Rigby was flanked by his step-son's wife, who at times covered her face with
a handkerchief and to his right his own wife and Lee's mother, Lyn Rigby.

Lee's sister, Sara McClure, 24, sat holding her mother's hand and the family
were also joined by Ray Dutton, another extended family member and Susan
Metcalfe, Rebecca's mother.

Lee's other sisters Chelsea, Courtney, 11, and Amy, eight, were not present.

The family agreed to take a few questions, but did not want to be asked about
politics, racism and the incident itself - still subject to an ongoing police
investigation.

Asked how proud Lee was to serve Queen and country, Mr Rigby replied:
"Extremely. He's always wanted to serve in the Army. He's been all over, Cyprus,
Germany, Jordan."

Asked how hard it was to take that Lee had been killed not in a war zone but on
the streets of London, Mr Rigby said: "When in Afghanistan, you come to terms
with it, you know it's dangerous, you don't expect something like that on your
doorstep. It's very difficult."

Mr Rigby was asked how he found out about the incident and said he saw it on TV
and tried to contact his step-son immediately.

"Really as soon as it came on the news on television, obviously we didn't know
it was Lee but your heart skips a beat when you see something like that on TV,
you know your son is in that area.

"As soon as it was on the telly we were attempting to get hold of Lee, obviously
we couldn't and it was the middle of the night probably when we got confirmed to
us it was Lee."

Asked what the family will miss most about Lee, his wife said: "Everything."

Mr Rigby added: "Everything. His love for his family, his incredible sense of
humour. He was a loving son and wonderful father.

"I just can't tell you how much..."

Drummer Rigby collected teddy bears for his son Jack and the family took one to
the press conference, dressed by Lee in the infantry uniform and with the
Fusiliers' trademark feathered 'hackle' on the cap.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 31, 2013 Friday 3:26 PM GMT

MI5 failures over Woolwich probably 'misjudgement' not lack of snoopers'
charter, says Sir Chris Fox;
MI5's failure to stop the Woolwich terror attack was probably the result of
human misjudgement rather than lack of "draconian" powers to monitor email
traffic, a former police boss said today.

BYLINE: By Rowena Mason Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 509 words


Sir Chris Fox, the former head of the Association of Chief Police Officers,
warned against leaping too quickly to the conclusion that Britain needs new
surveillance laws, because of the Woolwich attack last week.

Politicians are considering reviving their plans to monitor internet traffic,
known by critics as the "snoopers' charter", after the murder of Drummer Lee
Rigby allegedly by two Islamic extremists.

MI5 were monitoring the two men suspected of carrying out the attack but had not
considered them a high risk.

Philip Hammond, the Defence Secretary, has said British troops and citizens
would be safer from terrorist "mayhem" if the Government gave spies more access
to people's internet activities.

However, Sir Chris said Britain shold not "leap too quickly to bring in
draconian powers" as the new laws could "impact every single person in the UK".

"We should not give up our freedom of speech and privacy too easily," he said in
an article for Telegraph.co.uk .

The former police boss said the case has not yet been fully investigated but it
seems that someone in the security services decided that the suspected
terrorists "posed less risk than others active in the UK who would be further
investigated with the resources available".

"That sort of decision will always exist and sadly misjudgements might be made,"
he said.

He said the case is not proven that a revived Communications Data Bill would
prevent further attacks by monitoring internet history.

This views was backed up by Emma Carr, deputy director of Big Brother Watch,a
civil liberties campaign group.

"The law already allows people's houses to be bugged and people followed in the
street, and if these powers cannot be applied to digital communications then
that is a problem the Communications Data Bill would not fix," she said.

"We are faced with a situation where the surveillance of suspected terrorists is
not limited by legislation, but by the application of existing law and the
resources available to the security services and police. These are issues of
significant concern that the snooper's charter would not have addressed, while
diverting billions of pounds from focused surveillance to blanket monitoring of
everyone's internet use."

Nick Clegg, the deputy Prime Minister, blocked the laws earlier this year over
privacy fears but is under pressure to allow them in the wake of the Woolwich
attack.

He has promised to "solve the issue" and "strike a balance" between security and
liberty.

However, he maintains "significant" parts of the Bill are "excessive" and
"unworkable".

Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, today called for Mr Clegg to "listen to the
arguments" for giving more monitoring powers to MI5.

"Lots of crimes are detected because the police can tell where criminals are
when they make phone calls," he told LBC 97.3 Radio.

"I've got an open mind. The police are making very strong representations to me
that it's in their interests to be able to keep up with the bad guys when they
use new technology to make phone calls - that's the key thing."

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 31, 2013 Friday 3:15 PM GMT

Sir Chris Fox: Britain should not give up privacy too easily because of Woolwich
terror;
Britain should not leap to the conclusion that a "snoopers' charter" is needed
in the aftermath of the Woolwich terror attack.

BYLINE: By Sir Chris Fox Former president of the Association of Chief Police
Officers

LENGTH: 400 words


The tragic and violent death of Drummer Lee Rigby in Woolwich has, rightly,
started a search to establish just how this could happen. An awful attack on a
brave young family man shows us just how amoral our terrorist enemies are.

To find that the alleged offenders had come to notice previously further drives
the need to see what could be done better to safeguard our security. We must
learn lessons and make changes if those changes will improve our security.

Sadly, but not surprisingly, some have leapt to the conclusion that reinstating
the Communication Bill will prevent further attacks. In short the argument runs
that by keeping every single person's communication history the security
services and police will be better placed to prevent such outrages.

That case is not proven. We should wait for a thorough investigation to
establish when and why decisions were taken but it seems that someone decided
that this individual posed less risk than others active in the UK who would be
further investigated with the resources available. That sort of decision will
always exist and sadly misjudgements might be made.

Would more information help such decisions be made? Remember, these individuals
were identified and even arrested abroad so much more information could have
been obtained using the current powers under RIPA or Terrorism Prevention and
Investigation Measures (TPim) legislation.

Someone decided this was not appropriate and that same decision could be made
even with a full communication history particularly if the individual worked
alone or was surveillance savvy. As he would know his record of communication
activity was to be kept then I think we might expect activity which avoids
communicating in ways that could incriminate him or others.

I may be wrong but the money allocated to such a system might be better used
giving security services and police extra resources to spread their net wider
and investigate more of those appearing on the radar. I will await more tangible
evidence but I am not yet convinced that a wholesale collection of personal data
will protect us as effectively as using well regulated, intrusive and vigorous
investigations to pursue identified suspects.

We should wait for evidence and not leap too quickly to bring in draconian
powers which impact every single person in the UK. We should not give up our
freedom of speech and privacy too easily.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             June 1, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

PLEASE TELL ME WHY MY HOSTAGE HUSBAND DIED;
Algeria terror attack widow in the dark

BYLINE: STEPHEN WHITE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 265 words


THE widow of a hostage killed in a terrorist attack on a gas plant said she is
still waiting for answers about his death.

Lorraine Barlow, 52, claimed she was in the dark on the progress of a probe into
what happened to husband Garry, 50, and five other British workers murdered by
Islamist militants in Algeria.

She also told how she had no warning about Garry's death until David Cameron
appeared on TV and told the country of "bad news" after Algerian troops stormed
the In Amenas plant.

Speaking publicly for the first time, she called for a full investigation and
said: "They all waited in that office from when they heard the gunshots. They
waited for somebody to come to protect them and he received no protection and
I'd like to know why. I'd like to know exactly what happened and who was
responsible." Lorraine spoke to BP system supervisor Garry for the last time
when he phoned home to say he was a hostage and had explosives strapped to him.

Speaking of how she and her two teenage sons later learned of his possible death
from the PM on TV, she told the BBC: "We were all devastated. It was a real
shock."

Lorraine, from Liverpool, also accused BP, which jointly runs the plant, of
distancing itself from the family and said that her treatment was "inhumane in
the extreme". BP insisted Garry was an agency worker. It said it was still
unclear how terrorists breached an Algerian military zone and would take part in
the UK police investigation into the deaths. Scotland Yard has been gathering
evidence for inquests.

Algeria said 48 workers and 29 militants died in January's tragedy.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANGER 3 Lorraine
DEATH J Garry Barlow

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             June 1, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

PLEASE TELL ME WHY MY HOSTAGE HUSBAND DIED;
Algeria terror attack widow in the dark

BYLINE: STEPHEN WHITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 265 words


THE widow of a hostage killed in a terrorist attack on a gas plant said she is
still waiting for answers about his death.

Lorraine Barlow, 52, claimed she was in the dark on the progress of a probe into
what happened to husband Garry, 50, and five other British workers murdered by
Islamist militants in Algeria.

She also told how she had no warning about Garry's death until David Cameron
appeared on TV and told the country of "bad news" after Algerian troops stormed
the In Amenas plant.

Speaking publicly for the first time, she called for a full investigation and
said: "They all waited in that office from when they heard the gunshots. They
waited for somebody to come to protect them and he received no protection and
I'd like to know why. I'd like to know exactly what happened and who was
responsible." Lorraine spoke to BP system supervisor Garry for the last time
when he phoned home to say he was a hostage and had explosives strapped to him.

Speaking of how she and her two teenage sons later learned of his possible death
from the PM on TV, she told the BBC: "We were all devastated. It was a real
shock."

Lorraine, from Liverpool, also accused BP, which jointly runs the plant, of
distancing itself from the family and said that her treatment was "inhumane in
the extreme". BP insisted Garry was an agency worker. It said it was still
unclear how terrorists breached an Algerian military zone and would take part in
the UK police investigation into the deaths. Scotland Yard has been gathering
evidence for inquests.

Algeria said 48 workers and 29 militants died in January's tragedy.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANGER 3 Lorraine
DEATH J Garry Barlow

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             June 1, 2013 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

BP's response to terror attack condemned by widow of victim

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 430 words


BP's response following a gas plant terror attack which left six Britons dead
has been "inhumane to the extreme", a widow of one of the victims claimed during
an interview.

Systems supervisor Garry Barlow, 49, died during the siege led by heavily-armed
terrorists at the In Amenas gas plant, run as part of a joint venture including
BP, in Algeria.

His widow Lorraine said that almost six months after the January attack she
still has no idea how her husband was  killed and has called for a full
investigation to find out what happened.

Two Scots - Kenneth Whiteside, 59, from Fife, and Carson Bilsland, 46, from
Perthshire - were among six Britons who were killed during the bloody attack.

Mrs Barlow, from Liverpool, said that one of the most upsetting moments of the
four-day siege was watching Prime Minister David Cameron use a television
address to warn the nation to prepare for bad news, as she had been given no
prior warning.

BP said questions remain unresolved as to how the terrorists breached an
Algerian military zone and layered security measures and that it will take part
in the UK police probe into the murders.

BP added Mr Barlow was employed by Swiss company IOTA and brought in to work at
the plant by the joint venture, which has its own management and operates
independently.

When Mrs Barlow was asked if BP had done enough to address her concerns in the
aftermath of the incident, she said: "Not at all - quite the reverse.

"I've been shocked by BP. I expected a lot more of any company with the name
British in its title, frankly.

"I just don't understand why they have actively chosen to distance themselves so
far away from us that they feel they just don't need to communicate with us at
all.

"They don't feel as if they have any responsibility to tell us anything.

"I find it quite shocking and inhumane to the extreme."

Mrs Barlow, mother to the couple's two teenage boys, said she had several
unanswered questions, including what happened to her husband during the siege.

Around 40 hostages were killed, along with some 29 of the hostage-takers.

A BP spokeswoman said: "The terrorist attack at In Amenas was an unprecedented
and horrific criminal terrorist act which has profoundly impacted the lives of
many people.

"Our thoughts and sympathies remain with the families of all those who were
killed.

"BP will participate in this investigation and is co-operating fully.

"We shall only redeploy our expatriate employees in Algeria, and support the
re-deployment of contractor personnel by the JV, as and when we are satisfied
with the safety and security conditions."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             June 1, 2013 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

Seven killed in terror attacks

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 61 words


BAGHDAD: Seven people have been killed and others were injured after two attacks
in Iraq. Police said a bomb left by the side of the road at the Omar mosque in
west Baghdad killed four people and injured 11 others after Friday prayers. And
in Fallujah, a former al Qaeda stronghold, three policemen were killed and two
hurt when gunmen attacked a security checkpoint.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                             June 1, 2013 Saturday

Widow accuses BP of inhumane' response to gas plant terror attack

LENGTH: 274  words


BP's response following a gas plant terror attack which left six Britons dead
has been "inhumane to the extreme", a widow of one of the victim's has claimed.

Systems supervisor Garry Barlow, 49, from Liverpool, died during the siege led
by heavily-armed terrorists at the In Amenas gas plant, run as part of a joint
venture including BP, in Algeria.

And his widow Lorraine said almost six months after the January attack she still
has no idea how her husband was killed and has called for a full investigation
to explore what happened. She also told BBC Radio 4's Today programme one of the
most upsetting moments of the four-day siege was watching Prime Minister David
Cameron use a television address to warn the nation to prepare for bad news, as
she had been given no prior warning.

BP said it remains an unresolved question how the terrorists breached an
Algerian military zone and layered security measures and it will take part in
the UK police investigation into the murders.

BP added Mr Barlow was employed by Swiss company IOTA and brought in to work at
the plant by the joint venture.

When Mrs Barlow was questioned if BP had done enough to address her concerns in
the aftermath of the incident, she said: "Not at all - quite the reverse. I've
been shocked by BP. I expected a lot more of any company with the name British
in its title, frankly.

"I just don't understand why they have actively chosen to distance themselves so
far away from us that they feel they just don't need to communicate with us  at
all. They don't feel as if they have any responsibility to tell  us anything. I
find it quite shocking and inhumane to the extreme."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 2, 2013 Sunday 2:20 PM GMT

Tony Blair: Woolwich attack shows there is a problem 'within Islam';
Tony Blair has warned that there is a problem "within Islam" as he described the
ideology behind incidents like the Woolwich terror attack as "profound and
dangerous".

BYLINE: By Peter Dominiczak Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 383 words


Mr Blair, the former prime minister, used a column in the Mail on Sunday to call
on the Government to "be honest" and admit that there is a widespread problem
with the religion.

In a major intervention following the murder of soldier Lee Rigby, Mr Blair said
"the seeds of future fanaticism and terror" were being sown and that children in
the UK and abroad must be educated about the place of religion in society.

Mr Blair said: "There is not a problem with Muslims in general. Most in Britain
will be horrified at Lee Rigby's murder.

"But there is a problem within Islam - from the adherents of an ideology that is
a strain within Islam. And we have to put it on the table and be honest about
it."

He said "at the extreme end of the spectrum are terrorists" but "by and large we
don't admit it".

Mr Blair added: "The seeds of future fanaticism and terror, possibly even major
conflict, are being sown. We have to help sow seeds of reconciliation and peace.
But clearing the ground for peace is not always peaceful."

The former prime minister is the envoy to the Middle East on behalf of the
Quartet - the UN, the US, the EU and Russia - charged with advancing
reconciliation in the region.

Since taking up the position when he left Downing Street in 2007 he has failed
to have any impact on the relationship between the Israelis and Palestinians,
his critics' claim, with one Palestinian official describing his role as
"useless, useless, useless".

In his latest comments Mr Blair said "we should never forget" that the conflicts
in Iraq and Afghanistan were long and hard because "we allowed failed states to
come into being".

He also warned that achieving security in troubled nations was not enough to
tackle the problem of extremism.

Mr Blair said: "We resisted revolutionary communism by being resolute on
security; but we defeated it by a better idea: Freedom.

"We can do the same with this. The better idea is a modern view of religion and
its place in society and politics. There has to be respect and equality between
people of different faiths. Religion must have a voice in the political system
but not govern it.

"We have to start with how to educate children about faith, here and abroad," he
said.

Mr Blair added: "Now, more than ever, we have to be strong and we have to be
strategic."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 3, 2013 Monday

USA says porous borders, graft expose Uganda to terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 623 words


Excerpt from report by Tabu Butagira entitled "Porous borders, graft expose
Uganda to terrorist attacks-US" published by leading privately-owned Ugandan
newspaper The Daily Monitor website on 3 June

The United States has warned that a plethora of corruption, porous borders and
limited resources make Uganda vulnerable to terrorist attacks in spite of the
country's plausible lead role in ensuring regional security.

The grim assessment is contained in the Country Reports on Terrorism 2012
report, which the US Department of State's Bureau of Counter-terrorism prepares
annually to appraise Congress on global trends of extremism. It was released
last week.

"Although Uganda significantly improved its ability to investigate terrorist
acts, additional training and resources are needed," the report notes, citing
disturbing domestic loopholes in tracking shady financial transactions.

The report adds: "Uganda's financial sector remained vulnerable to money
laundering, terrorist financing, and other illicit financial transactions;
Uganda has not criminalized money laundering. "Legal and law enforcement
measures to combat terrorist financing, based on the Anti-Terrorist Act of 2002
and the Financial Institutions Act of 2004, are inadequate and do not meet
international standards." Uganda's Anti-Money Laundering Bill, designed to
bolster regulatory checks of cash flow in and out of the country, criminalizing
the offence of money laundering and imposing harsher penalties on perpetrators
besides providing for sharing of related information with international
community, is stuck in parliament since its tabling last year.

Majority lawmakers in September last year derided the draft legislation as
"politically-motivated" and claimed it would threaten direct foreign investment.

Bank of Uganda's legal counsel Titus Mulindwa warned then that inaction would
aid criminals to "take-over" local commercial banks by concealing or disguising
the nature, source, interest or movement of their massive proceeds from criminal
activities.

If enacted, the Anti-Money Laundering law would establish a Money Laundering
Intelligence Unit within the central bank alongside an inter-agency task force
bringing together insurers, bankers, police, business people and bureaucrats to
monitor financial crime.

It is the lack of such legislation which has Washington frightened that money
for terrorism financing could be passing through Uganda undetected, especially
that the country has neither the capacity required to effectively monitor and
regulate alternative remittance services nor wire transfer data. "The Bank of
Uganda asks local (commercial) banks to report suspicious transactions, but
there is no clear implementation mechanism for enforcing this or investigating
potentially suspicious activity, the report notes.

Senior police commissioner George Amur Chombe, who is the acting
Counter-Terrorism director, was unavailable for comment yesterday, and neither
were spokespersons for the force that leads other security agencies on the
anti-terrorism fight.

In July 2010, suspected Al-Shabab terrorists killed at least 70 people in
Kampala with twin bomb attacks at Lugogo Rugby Club and the Ethiopian Restaurant
in Kabalagala, a city outskirts.

The government, which has issued several terror alerts since then, has
undertaken institutional reforms, provided more financing, trained additional
experts and acquired modern equipment to detect and or thwart unending threats
by terrorists.

The American evaluation is based on legislation, law enforcement and border
security, countering terrorist finance; regional and international cooperation
and countering radicalisation. [Passage omitted]

Source: Daily Monitor website, Kampala, in English 3 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 3, 2013 Monday

Security guards foil terrorist attack in Yemen's Balhaf

LENGTH: 133 words


Text of report by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Sana'a, 2 June (Saba) - A military official said that security guards thwarted
an attack on the liquefied gas export terminal in Balhaf on Sunday [1 June].

Two car bombs attempted to attack the eighth and ninth points to re-pump gas in
Balhaf area, he said, adding that the security guards managed to blow up a car
before it reached its target, killing only the attackers, who was believed to be
an al-Qa'idah militant.

The other car escaped and it is hunted now by other security units, he said.

The official denied reports by some media outlets on the death of five military
individuals in the attack, stressing that no casualties or losses in properties
were reported.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in Arabic 1950 gmt 2 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 3, 2013 Monday 9:08 PM GMT

David Cameron: We will 'drain the swamp' which allows Muslim extremists to
flourish;
David Cameron has pledged to "drain the swamp" in which radical Muslims are
allowed to hide and develop their extreme views in the wake of the Woolwich
terror attack.

BYLINE: By Christopher Hope Senior Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 530 words


The Prime Minister told MPs he would do more to tackle the "conveyor belt to
radicalisation" which is poisoning the minds of young Muslims.

Mr Cameron also confirmed a Telegraph report that he is looking at finding ways
to allow spies to monitor people over the internet without the need for Commons
vote.

In his first Commons statement since the brutal murder in Woolwich, south London
last month of Drummer Lee Rigby, Mr Cameron said it was important to learn the
lessons from the attack.

He told MPs: "it is not simply enough to target and go after violent extremists
after they've become violent. We have to drain the swamp in which they inhabit."

This meant stopping young Muslims becoming radicalised on university campuses
and preventing extremists from taking over Islamic centres. He said: "It means
going through all of these elements of the conveyor belt to radicalisation and
making sure we deal with them."

Mr Cameron said the despicable crime had shocked and sickened the country.

He said it was necessary to understand the root causes of radical extremism if
the Government was to successfully tackle the problem.

He said: "Those who carried out this callous and abhorrent crime sought to
justify their actions by an extremist ideology that perverts and warps Islam to
create a culture of victimhood and justify violence. We must confront this
ideology in all its forms."

Mr Cameron said the Government's Prevent Strategy had closed down websites and
helped people vulnerable to radicalisation.

Since 2011, more hate preachers had been excluded from the UK than ever, while
5,700 items of terrorism material had been taken down from the internet with
almost 1,000 more blocked when they were hosted overseas, he said.

Mr Cameron added: "But it is clear that we need to do more. When young men born
and bred in this country are radicalised and turned into killers, we have to ask
some tough questions about what is happening in our country."

A new Government taskforce on tackling radicalisation would see whether rules
for charities were too lax and allowed extremists to prosper, and whether enough
was done to disrupt groups that incite hatred or violence, he said.

Mr Cameron also disclosed that he is looking at all "non-legislative options
there are" to allow police and security services to spy on people's activities
over the internet.

The Government had considered a new Communications Data Bill, but it was dropped
from last month's Queen's Speech after it was vetoed by the Liberal Democrats.

Mr Cameron said that "some 95 per cent of serious crimes involve the use of
communications data.

"As telephony moves from fixed and mobile telephony on to the internet, our
intelligence and police services will have a problem.

"We need to address this problem, we should address it in a sensitive and
careful way, we should look at all the non-legislative options there are."

The Daily Telegraph disclosed last week that a team led by Cabinet secretary Sir
Jeremy Heywood was examining whether they can bring in a large number of the
proposed changes using existing legislation, without needing a divisive vote
which Liberal Democrat MPs would oppose.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              June 4, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Farmer dies in attack by 40,000 bees;
terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 121 words


A SWARM of 40,000 killer bees chased a farmer and stung him to death.

Larry Goodwin was helping a neighbour to clear a pile of dry bush when he
disturbed an Africanised bee colony.

Mr Goodwin tried to run to a neighbour's house for help and began spraying
himself with a garden hose.

Relatives said he was stung on every part of his body. Two women who went to
help were stung more than 100 times and were last night in a serious condition.

Rescuers who tried to resuscitate Mr Goodwin, 62, in Moody, Texas, were also
attacked by the bees.

Expert Allen Miller said: "You can't believe how bad they are. In a hive of
ordinary European bees, about 10% will attack if the hive is threatened, but
with African bees, all of them attack."

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 4, 2013 Tuesday 9:41 PM GMT

Boston bombing suspect 'has $1,000 in bank account opened by supporters' as he
is heard speaking to his mother for first time since terror attack

BYLINE: LOUISE BOYLE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 442 words



     ·    Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, has been allowed one phone call with his
          parents in Dagestan
     ·    He told them he was fine and 'eating chicken and rice'
     ·    Tsarnaev is accused of planting bombs at Boston Marathon on April 15
          which killed three people and injured 264


Boston bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev told his mother that he has 'plenty of
money', claiming  supporters opened a bank account in his name and deposited
$1,000.

The revelation came as the voice of the 19-year-old alleged terrorist was heard
for the first time since he was arrested on April 19 on suspicion of having
detonated bombs at the Boston Marathon four days earlier with his brother
Tamerlan. Three people died and 264 were injured in the attack.

Tsarnaev's mother Zubeidat Tsarnaeva has been allowed one phone call with her
surviving son who remains in a prison hospital in Massachusetts recovering from
gunshot wounds. Dzhokhar said that he was not in pain and had been eating
chicken and rice.

The bombing suspect's mother played a recording of the telephone conversation
with her teenage son to  Channel Four News.

In the clip, she tearfully asks if he is in pain, to which he responds: 'No of
course not. I'm already eating and have been for a long time.

'They are giving me chicken and rice now, everything's fine.'

Zubeidat Tsarnaeva then tells her son that 'we all love you, Muslims and
non-Muslims love you'.

She later claimed that Dzhokhar told her on the phone that one supporter had
opened a bank account for him where $1,000 had been deposited.

Tsarnaev, 19, is accused of carrying out the attack in Boston almost two months
ago and has been charged in federal court with using and conspiring to use a
weapon of mass destruction. He could face the death penalty if convicted.

The terror suspect was arrested after a 36-hour manhunt and is currently being
held at Devens Federal medical center as he recovers from gunshot wounds,
including one to the neck.

His parents have also raised $8,000 from those who support claims that their
sons are innocent of the terrorist attacks, the first on U.S. soil since
September 11.

A 'free Dzhokhar' website has also been set up which draws support from around
the world.

Elder brother, 26-year-old Tamerlan Tsarnaev, was killed in a shootout with
police, and Dzhokhar remains in a prison hospital after being badly wounded.

Anzor Tsarnaev, the suspects' father, said last week that he believed his sons
to be innocent and that the justice system had failed.

He told the AP: 'All I can do is pray to God and hope that one day fairness will
win out, our children will be cleared, and we will at least get Dzhokhar back,
crippled, but at least alive.'

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 4, 2013 Tuesday 5:25 PM GMT

MI5 chief Andrew Parker briefs Cabinet on Woolwich investigation;
Andrew Parker, the head of MI5, has briefed the Cabinet on the Woolwich
terrorist attacks, Downing Street said today.

BYLINE: By Christopher Hope Senior Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 238 words


The meeting is thought to be the first one to be briefed by Andrew Parker, the
director general of the Security Service, since he took over in April.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said that Mr Parker addressed the
Cabinet with Home secretary Theresa May.

The spokesman said: "The Home secretary and the Director General of the security
service updated Cabinet on the events of Woolwich and the subsequent
investigation."

David Cameron has been criticised for going to MI5 on the day after the brutal
murder of Drummer Lee Rigby by Islamist extremists.

The spokesman added that Mr Cameron remained supportive of the work of MI5,
despite concerns that the security service had been in contact with Drummer
Rigby's alleged killers before the attack.

The spokesman added: "The PM's admiration for the work that the security
services do - he set that out very clearly in his statement the day after the
horrific events in Woolwich.

"He also in that statement explained that the ISC [Intelligence and Security
Committee] would be conducting its inquiry which is now happening."

One of the last recorded occasions when the head of MI5 briefed the Cabinet was
in March last year, when Mr Parker's predecessor Sir Jonathan Evans, told
ministers of the threats facing the country in the period leading up to the
London Olympic Games.

Mr Parker has worked for the Security Service for more than 30 years. Sir
Jonathan retired in April.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 5, 2013 Wednesday

Afghan paper says anyone involved in terrorist attacks will go to hell

LENGTH: 337 words


Text of editorial entitled "Terrorists are going to hell ", published by
state-owned Afghan newspaper Anis on 3 June

Everyone knows that all types of terrorist attack, especially suicide attacks
which kill the attacker and also innocent people, are strictly prohibited. In
accordance with Islamic teachings, the Nationwide Council of Religious Scholars
of Afghanistan has many times prohibited any involvement in any terrorist
activities, including suicide bombings, explosions and road mines which kill
innocent civilians.

In addition, the jihadi leader Abdorrab Rasul Sayyaf condemned terrorist and
suicide attacks during a ceremony last year and declared them forbidden. He said
the suicide attackers will receive heavy punishment in the hereafter and they
will be sent to hell.

Furthermore, at a pilgrimage gathering last year, the Mecca Grand Mufti cited
Islamic instructions as saying terrorist and suicide attacks are strongly
prohibited in Islam and perpetrators will receive harsh punishment, that is
going to hell. He explicitly insisted that there is no link between Islam and
terrorism and added Islam is the religion of peace, friendship and brotherhood.
The Mecca Grand Mufti urged all Muslims in the world to avoid conflict and
promote Islamic friendship.

The government of Afghanistan and the High Peace Council have always tried to
conduct a joint meeting between religious scholars of Afghanistan and Pakistan
in order to discuss the issue but unfortunately Pakistan, as a supporter of
terrorists, has prevented such a meeting. The Taleban have also warned the
religious scholars against holding the meetings because they do not want anyone
to be aware of their non-Islamic activities.

In accordance with Islamic guidelines, we conclude that the attacks launched by
terrorists, on the orders of regional spy agencies, are forbidden. Those who
commit such crimes and kill or injure innocent Afghan civilians will go to hell.
They are the murderers and their place is in hell.

Source: Anis, Kabul, in Dari 3 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      June 5, 2013 Wednesday 10:45 AM GMT

I expect terror attacks during G8 summit, admits police chief

BYLINE: By Margaret Davis

SECTION: G8 SUMMIT

LENGTH: 577 words


Terrorist attacks are part of normal life in Northern Ireland and should be
expected during the G8 summit, the PSNI commander of the security operation has
said.

Assistant Chief Constable Alistair Finlay said dissident republican attacks are
part of the "normal backdrop" of life.

But he said he expects any incidents will take place away from the conference
venue in Fermanagh and other key areas linked to the event.

Mr Finlay said: "I've got no reason to say that dissidents won't do something
during that period of time. This is the normal backdrop. This has been the
backdrop, the sad reality of Northern Ireland over quite a period of time.

"There is nothing to suggest that the rhythm of that will be disrupted. It would
be great if it did, and maybe the policing operation, which is in part designed
to do that, will prevent any of that happening during the G8. But we would say
people shouldn't be surprised if there are incidents. We anticipate those
incidents won't be at, near or affecting any part of the delivery of the G8."

The New IRA and ONH (Oglaigh na hEireann) are currently the most active
dissident groups, he said, which have "real capacity and capability".

He added: "The period of G8 is an opportunity for those groups who want to feel
they're noticed by threatening harm to communities and to my officers in their
normal business. During that period of time the policing footprint around
Northern Ireland will be large, there will be significant opportunities of
detention, and those are features that the dissident terrorist doesn't
particularly find attractive."

Mr Finlay said the 3,600 police from outside Northern Ireland that are being
used here during the G8 will not be deployed in normal policing duties.

"They are going to be focusing on venue protection, route protection. They are
going to focus on management of protests associated with G8. They are not going
to be doing normal PSNI policing business," he said.

"We will also embed with each unit coming from Great Britain a number of PSNI
officers, and those PSNI officers of course are routinely armed with personal
protection weapons. They will provide local knowledge but also a degree of
protection."

He does not believe officers from Britain are in any more danger than domestic
officers.

"I've got nothing to suggest the dissidents see them as a target in particular.
The kind of thing the dissidents target is us, the PSNI, the indigenous police
officers.

"The preference is attacking police at their homes or other places with
under-vehicle improvised explosive devices. Those are the most insidious and
most destructive problems we've had."

The PSNI already frequently uses air cover and has brought forward the purchase
of a new helicopter to coincide with G8.

The force has also ordered three drones which it is hoped can be used during the
summit.

Factfile

The G8 security operation, the biggest in the PSNI's history, will see 3,600
officers drafted in from forces across Great Britain, 2,500 of whom specialise
in public order. Another 4,400 officers from PSNI are also due to take part. The
Government has agreed to reveal the cost of security after the event. Officers
coming from Britain have had to be trained in getting in and out of armoured
Land Rovers and how to work around water cannon. They have been kitted out with
ballistic body armour and will be accompanied by PSNI officers, who are
routinely armed, while on patrol.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                             June 5, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Carjackers strike at knifepoint;
Jail for two in terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 524 words


A CARJACKER was driving like a "lunatic" when he overturned a BMW convertible he
had stolen at knifepoint.

Banned driver Marlon Mabrouk, 17, and Connor Dodds stole the car from a man who
had been giving them a lift.

They pulled a knife, snatched his keys, then made off in the early hours with
Mabrouk driving dangerously.

When he was spotted by police, he fled at speed but lost control at a
roundabout, overturning the car and crashing into the vehicle of a teaching
assistant, who was injured and had to be taken to hospital.

Now Mabrouk, whose dad was jailed for attempted murder 11 years ago, and Dodds
have both been sent to young offender institutions for three years.

Judge John Evans, at Newcastle Crown Court, told them: "The fact of the matter
is you subjected your victims to a very frightening experience and in your case
Mabrouk you then drove in a manner which is best described as like a lunatic and
without regard for other road users.

"It's miraculous, given that you overturned that car and hit another car, that
no one was seriously injured."

Victim Michael Mchugh had been at the home of a friend in South Shields in
January when Mabrouk and Dodds turned up.

Mr Mchugh gave to the pair a lift to the shop then they asked to be dropped off
at Dodds' mother's home.

When they got there the driver had to get out to let Mabrouk and Dodds out of
the back of the three-door BMW.

Prosecutor Michael Bunch said: "As Mabrouk got out he grabbed the keys.

"Dodds produced a knife and passed it to Mabrouk and he brandished it at Mr
Mchugh and his friend. The defendants then got in the car and drove off."

An hour later, around 7.15am, a policeman was on his way home and noticed the
silver BMW in Sunderland. The officer, who notified the control room and sent
for help, followed it and watched as it went to a petrol station and left
without paying.

Mr Bunch said: "It pulled away at speed and the police followed.

"The BMW came into collision with a vehicle being driven by a teaching
assistant, who felt a massive jolt and heard a loud bang.

"Her car was forced on to the roundabout and the BMW lost control and ended up
on it's roof."

The woman had to be taken to hospital before being discharged later the same
day.

Mabrouk ran off but was caught after a short chase. Dodds had to be cut free
from the car by firefighters.

Mabrouk, of Gainsborough Avenue, South Shields, pleaded guilty to robbery,
possessing an offensive weapon, aggravated vehicle taking, dangerous driving,
driving while disqualified, having no insurance and making off without payment.

Dodds, 20, of Gordon Street, South Shields, admitted robbery, possessing an
offensive weapon, aggravated vehicle taking and making off without payment.

David Comb, for Mabrouk, said his dad had been jailed for attempted murder when
he was six and he'd had a turbulent upbringing.

Mr Comb said: "He has been surrounded by chaos since he was a very young boy. He
now has a little boy and is thinking every day about whether his little boy's
life can be better than his when he gets out."

Vic Laffey, for Dodds, said: "It's very fortunate things were not much more
serious than they might have been."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GUILTY Dodds
GUILTY Mabrouk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2013 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  June 5, 2013
                                 First Edition

Police will 'act swiftly' if Choudary breaks law;
TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Paul Peachey crime correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 276 words


Scotland Yard is liaising with prosecutors over the statements of Islamist
preacher Anjem Choudary and would act swiftly if he broke the law in the wake of
the Woolwich attack, the head of its anti-terrorism branch told MPs yesterday.

Assistant Commissioner Cressida Dick said the Met was constantly assessing the
preacher's proclamations after he said one of the suspected killers was a "very
nice man" and that he could not feel sorry for the victim, Drummer Lee Rigby,
who like all non-Muslims would burn in "hellfires".

Mr Choudary was the former leader of Al Muhajiroun, which became notorious for
trying to justify the 9/11 attacks. He has been an outspoken critic of British
military involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan but says he has never preached that
attacks on British troops in the UK were justified.

AC Dick declined to say whether Mr Choudary was being given police protection
but said there were constant risk assessments around highprofile people.

She told members of the Home Affairs Select Committee that officers believed
that the alleged Woolwich killers were operating alone during the attack in
south-east London.

Two men have been charged with the murder of the soldier and eight other people
have been bailed in connection with the attack. "At the moment, we have no
evidence that there were any other people present at the scene of the attack,"
she said.

A parliamentary inquiry is being conducted into the police and security service
handling of the case.

More than 600 officers were involved in the operation at its peak. In total, 17
addresses have been searched, 12 arrests made, six cars seized and 2,500 pieces
of evidence gathered.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2013 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       June 5, 2013 Wednesday 3:20 PM GMT

'EDL' graffiti found on London Islamic community centre hit by arson attack as
counter-terror police are called in

BYLINE: ROB COOPER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 764 words



     ·    Fire broke out in Muswell Hill, north London, at around 3am today
     ·    Police probe link to English Defence League after 'EDL' graffiti is
          found
     ·    No arrests have been made so far


Graffiti reading 'EDL' was found on an Islamic community centre which burned to
the ground today in a suspected arson attack.

Counter terrorism officers were called in after flames engulfed the premises,
which are said to house a prayer centre in Muswell Hill, north London, shortly
after 3am.

The Metropolitan Police said an investigation had revealed the graffiti
apparently linking the fire to the far-right English Defence League.

The incident came amid fears that the fire might have been started in
retaliation for the killing of Drummer Lee Rigby in Woolwich last month.

Six fire engines and around 35 firefighters tackled the blaze which started in
the early hours of today.

English Defence League leader Tommy Robinson this afternoon said he was
'sceptical' about whether the EDL were involved - but he has not yet condemned
the attack.

Appearing to suggest that Muslims may have torched the community centre, he
wrote: 'There were 26 fire bombings in Luton with graffiti saying EDL? Guess who
was arrested for it? Muslims! Sorry if I'm sceptical'.

The Metropolitan Police said graffiti reading EDL - the initials of the English
Defence League - was found on the building and they are investigating any
possible link.

The Somali Bravanese Welfare Association building is listed as a Mosque.

A police spokesman said: 'The fire caused extensive damage to the community
centre, which is cordoned off while officers and LFB continue their
investigations.

'Graffiti reading EDL has been found on the building. Police are investigating
any potential connection between the graffiti and the fire.

'One woman was treated for minor injuries not sustained in the fire.

'Officers from specialist investigation teams are at the scene and a vigorous
and thorough investigation into the incident will be carried out.

'Police have started consulting and will work closely with the Somali and
Islamic communities to provide support and reassurance.'

Borough Chief Superintendent Adrian Usher said. 'I have spoken to community
leaders and assured them that a thorough investigation is being conducted.

'The safety of our communities is always our priority and we are consulting
widely, offering our support and reassurance.

'All communities can be confident that they have our support and I can be
contacted personally to answer their concerns.'

WAR MEMORIAL ATTACKED AGAIN

A war memorial that was attacked by vandals in central London last week has been
targeted for a second time.

The RAF Bomber Command War Memorial in Green Park has 'once again been subjected
to vandalism', the RAF Benevolent Fund said.

A blog post on the fund's website said: 'We are extremely disappointed and
saddened that the Bomber Command Memorial has once again been subjected to
vandalism.

'Work is currently under way to remove the graffiti.'

The post by Air Marshal Chris Nickols, controller, RAF Benevolent Fund,
continued: 'The RAF Benevolent Fund exists to provide welfare for past and
present RAF personnel and their dependants who are in need; this latest attack
will once again divert much needed resources away from our primary purpose.'

There have been no arrests so far.

Campaigners and members of the local community spoke of their devastation today
and branded the fire an 'attack against a peaceful community'.

Ali Abu, 30, of the Somali charity BritSom, said: 'We are all shocked by what
has happened. We condemn this attack.

'The situation is very serious at the moment. We are appalled and deeply
saddened by this attack against a peaceful community.'

Fiyaz Mughal, of Faith Matters, a group which monitors anti-Muslim hatred, said
members of the local Muslim community would attend the Islamic centre, housed in
the same building, to pray or participate in activities.

'Bearing in mind this is close to Woolwich, bearing in mind that it houses
Islamic activities, bearing in mind that they have found alleged EDL graffiti,
there's a strong likelihood that this could be an anti-Muslim incident.

'It is very concerning when we know that, online, there is a huge amount of
anti-Muslim hate. We know that. When it moves into the physical world, it is
extremely concerning.'

Scotland Yard said specialist investigation teams would conduct a 'vigorous and
thorough' investigation into the blaze, which caused the building to partially
collapse.

Anyone with information should contact Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 6, 2013 Thursday

FSB prevents terrorist attacks in Moscow, detains organizer

LENGTH: 74 words


Text of report by Gazprom-owned Russian NTV on 6 June

Urgent news just in reported by the ITAR-TASS news agency. Special services have
managed to prevent a series of terrorist attacks in Moscow. The Federal Security
Service special-purpose troops detained their presumed organizer, a certain
Davletbayev.

According to the National Antiterrorism Committee, his bandit group was
completely overpowered.

Source: NTV, Moscow, in Russian 0600 gmt 6 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 6, 2013 Thursday

FSB prevents terror attacks in Moscow, detains organizer - more

LENGTH: 267 words


Text of report by Russian Centre TV, owned by the Moscow city government, on 6
June

[Presenter] Urgent news. The FSB [Federal Security Service] special-purpose
troops have detained the organizer of preparations for a terror attack in
Moscow, the National Antiterrorism Committee has said. The culprit worked as a
taxi driver in Moscow and looked for most vulnerable places in the city so that
there were more victims. The detention of Yelay Davletbayev became the final
point in the large-scale special operation aimed at rendering harmless the band
of terrorists he headed. On 20 May, special services managed to kill in Moscow
Region two militants who prepared terror attacks in the capital. One more was
detained. All criminals are Russians who came from Afghanistan and Pakistan,
where they underwent combat training.

[Aleksey Privalov, captioned as representative of the National Antiterrorism
Committee's Information Centre] After 3 years abroad, the bandits secretly
returned to Russia on the instruction from heads of the terrorist organization
"Islamic Party of Turkestan" in order to carry out terror attacks. They settled
in a flat in the town of Orekhovo-Zuyevo where they made preparations for
committing the crime. FSB's timely and precise actions ruined these plans. Two
bandits were destroyed. One of them, a certain Amirkhanov, was wounded and
detained. After a rapid clash in the flat, numerous components of self-made
explosive devices were found there, which left no doubt the criminals were
preparing a series of terror attacks.

Source: Centre TV, Moscow, in Russian 0730 gmt 6 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 6, 2013 Thursday

Bahrain "terrorists" reportedly attempt to attack US officers

LENGTH: 124 words


Text of report by Bahrain newspaper Akhbar Al-Khalij website on 6 June

[Unattributed report: "Terrorists in Bahrain Attempt To Attack US Officers"]

Akhbar al-Khalij has been informed that the reason for the statement which the
US Embassy in Bahrain issued yesterday - warning US nationals in Bahrain to
exercise caution and not to approach the places where terror acts are committed,
or to be present at places they are not supposed to visit -was that a number of
terrorists had tried to attack some US officers at a residential area close to
the US base. It was also reported that some of the terrorists tried to break
through the house of a US officer, but their attempt was a failure.

Source: Akhbar Al-Khalij website, Manama, in Arabic  6 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       June 6, 2013 Thursday 3:42 PM GMT

Attack 'would have sparked terror'

LENGTH: 434 words


Islamic extremists planned a murderous attack on an English Defence League rally
that would have sparked a "tit-for-tat spiral of violence and terror", a court
has heard.

The plot to target an EDL rally in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, in June last year
only failed by chance, and the six conspirators would have gone on to attack
another rally by the far right group had they not been stopped, the Old Bailey
was told.

Jewel Uddin, 27, Omar Mohammed Khan, 31, Mohammed Hasseen, 24, Anzal Hussain,
25, Mohammed Saud, 23, and Zohaib Ahmed, 22, admitted planning the attack at a
hearing on April 30.

Dozens of EDL members gathered in a pub near the court for the start of the
two-day sentencing process, as leader Tommy Robinson and his deputy Kevin
Carroll briefly went into the public gallery of Court 12 to watch the beginning
of the hearing.

Barriers had been erected in the street outside the building amid a heightened
police presence.

Prosecutor Bobbie Cheema QC told the court: "In the months leading up to June
30, 2012 these six men, all ideologically committed to radical Islam, planned to
execute a terrible vengeance on the English Defence League for what they
perceived to be the EDL's recent blasphemous words and actions against the
Prophet Mohammed and Islam.

"Their plain and now admitted intention was to carry out a terrorist attack
using a varied selection of offensive weapons: an improvised explosive device,
two sawn-off shotguns, swords and knives. As well as members of the EDL and
police officers on duty, ordinary shoppers and workers would have been in the
town centre at the time of the rally, at the time of the planned attack."

All of the men except Hasseen travelled to Dewsbury on the day of the rally but
arrived at around 4pm, while the event had finished earlier than expected at
2pm. They were armed with two shotguns, swords, knives, a nail bomb containing
458 pieces of shrapnel, and a partially assembled pipe bomb.

Ms Cheema told the court: "The defendants have admitted what is obvious from the
evidence gathered during the careful police investigation: that they intended to
bring about a violent confrontation with the EDL during which they intended to
use weapons to cause serious injuries and they anticipated, each one of them,
that some victims may have died.

"It takes but a little contemplation to realise that had the retaliatory attack
gone ahead as planned it would have had a powerful impact on relations between
different groups who for the most part live peacefully alongside each other in
the UK and that impact would probably have still been reverberating today."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                  June 6, 2013
                                 First Edition

Police investigate arson attack on Somali centre;
TERRORISM

BYLINE: Paul Peachey and Charlotte Philby

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 329 words


Counter-terrorist police were yesterday investigating a suspected
racially-motivated arson attack on a Somali community centre by a far-right wing
group amid fears of a backlash against the Muslim community following the
Woolwich terror attack.

The Bravanese Welfare Centre, which hosted Arabic classes, in Muswell Hill,
north London, burned down early yesterday morning. The three letters EDL -
believed to stand for English Defence League - were found freshly painted on the
building's outside walls, according to the centre's leaders and police.

The leader of the EDL, a group which shuns mainstream political activity in
favour of volatile street protests against immigration, denied any role and said
that any such attack would be "disgusting".

If it proves to be a religiously-motivated arson, it will be the most serious so
far, despite a reported reduction in incidents of abuse against the Muslim
community after the Woolwich attack which killed Drummer Lee Rigby, 25, on 22
May.

Scotland Yard specialist investigators were conducting a fingertip search of the
area in Muswell Hill and trying to establish if the daubed paint was linked to
the fire, which is currently being treated as "suspicious".

Senior community leaders told i that the building, which partially collapsed
after the fire, has never before been the target of an attack. A woman living
nearby was treated for shock, but noone was injured.

The investigation has been passed to the Yard's counter-terrorism team which has
specialist knowledge of the EDL, which was founded in 2009 in response to
protests by radical Islamists at a homecoming parade for soliders returning from
Iraq.

The EDL's leader Tommy Robinson said he doubted any members of the group were
behind the graffiti but condemned the attack.

The English Defence League has a membership of up to 35,000 people, according to
the Demos thinktank, but splits within its ranks have meant its volatile street
protests are attracting only a few hundred.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2013 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       June 6, 2013 Thursday 11:00 PM GMT

Islamist gang that wanted to start war with the EDL: Bomb attack would have
sparked 'spiral of terror' with far-Right

BYLINE: ARTHUR MARTIN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 507 words



     ·    Six planned to attack EDL with  nail bomb, shotguns, swords and knives
     ·    Planned to 'execute a terrible vengeance' on the far-Right group
     ·    It was for the EDL's 'blasphemous words and actions' against Islam


Six British jihadists plotted to blow up an English Defence League rally to
spark a 'tit-for-tat spiral of violence and terror', a court heard yesterday.

The extremists wanted to  'execute a terrible vengeance' on the far-Right group
for its 'blasphemous words and actions' against Islam.

The six planned to attack the EDL with a nail bomb, shotguns, samurai swords and
knives.

They drove from their homes in Birmingham on June 30 last year to set off the
bomb at a rally in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire.

However, the meeting finished early and by the time the six arrived the 750 EDL
members had left.

Anti-terrorist officers were unaware of the plot and the six were only caught by
chance because their car was uninsured.

Security was heightened as the six appeared at the Old Bailey yesterday, after
an Islamic centre in Muswell Hill, north London, was burnt to the ground in a
suspected racist attack on Wednesday.

Prosecutor Bobbie Cheema QC said the jihadists 'intended to cause serious injury
and anticipated that some may have died'.

'It takes but a little contemplation to realise that had the retaliatory attack
gone ahead as planned it would have had a powerful impact on relations between
different groups...  and that impact would probably still be reverberating
today,' she said.

'There can be little doubt that a violent attack of the kind intended to be
carried out would have been bound to draw a response in revenge from its target
and those who sympathise with the EDL and would most likely have led to a
tit-for-tat spiral of violence and terror.'

Mrs Cheema said the group set out their intentions in a 'chilling' document
called Operation in Defence of the Prophet Muhammad.

It called the Queen a 'female devil' and accused her of 'fooling a nation of
blind sheep to your self-proclaimed royalty and majesty' by holding the Diamond
Jubilee celebrations. Addressing the EDL, it said: 'We love death more than you
love life. You are a people who are worse than animals. The penalty for
blasphemy of Allah and his Messenger Muhammad is death.'

On the gang's trip back from Dewsbury, one of their cars was randomly stopped by
a traffic officer on the M1. He impounded the car after discovering it was
uninsured.

The car was taken to a pound near Sheffield where it sat for two days until a
worker found the weapons and the jihadist notes.

After the six were arrested, police found they had downloaded thousands of files
from the internet containing videos of Al Qaeda training camps, bomb-making
instructions and one showing a man putting on a suicide vest.

Jewel Uddin, 27, Omar Khan, 31, Mohammed Hasseen, 24, Anzal Hussain, 25,
Mohammed Saud, 23, and Zohaib Ahmed, 22, admitted planning the attack at a
previous hearing.

The men, who regularly met at the Darul Ihsaan Islamic and  Fitness Centre in
Birmingham, will be sentenced today.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS



             PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: WEST MIDLANDS

                       June 6, 2013 Thursday 1:30 PM BST

ATTACK 'WOULD HAVE SPARKED TERROR'

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 1020 words


Islamic extremists from the West Midlands planned a murderous attack on an
English Defence League rally that would have sparked a ``tit-for-tat spiral of
violence and terror'', a court has heard.

The plot to target an EDL rally in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, in June last year
only failed by chance, and the six conspirators would have gone on to attack
another rally by the far right group had they not been stopped, the Old Bailey
was told.

Jewel Uddin, 27, Omar Mohammed Khan, 31, Mohammed Hasseen, 24, Anzal Hussain,
25, Mohammed Saud, 23, and Zohaib Ahmed, 22, admitted planning the attack at a
hearing on April 30.

Dozens of EDL members gathered in a pub near the court for the start of the
two-day sentencing process, as leader Tommy Robinson and his deputy Kevin
Carroll briefly went into the public gallery of Court 12 to watch the beginning
of the hearing.

Barriers had been erected in the street outside the building amid a heightened
police presence.

Prosecutor Bobbie Cheema QC told the court: ``In the months leading up to June
30, 2012 these six men, all ideologically committed to radical Islam, planned to
execute a terrible vengeance on the English Defence League for what they
perceived to be the EDL's recent blasphemous words and actions against the
Prophet Mohammed and Islam.

``Their plain and now admitted intention was to carry out a terrorist attack
using a varied selection of offensive weapons: an improvised explosive device,
two sawn-off shotguns, swords and knives.

``As well as members of the EDL and police officers on duty, ordinary shoppers
and workers would have been in the town centre at the time of the rally, at the
time of the planned attack.''

All of the men except Hasseen travelled to Dewsbury on the day of the rally but
arrived at around 4pm, while the event had finished earlier than expected at
2pm.

They were armed with two shotguns, swords, knives, a nail bomb containing 458
pieces of shrapnel, and a partially assembled pipe bomb.

The nail bomb was an 18in rocket stuffed with shrapnel and was to be powered by
explosives taken from at least two large fireworks.

Ms Cheema told the court: ``The defendants have admitted what is obvious from
the evidence gathered during the careful police investigation: that they
intended to bring about a violent confrontation with the EDL during which they
intended to use weapons to cause serious injuries and they anticipated, each one
of them, that some victims may have died.

``It takes but a little contemplation to realise that had the retaliatory attack
gone ahead as planned it would have had a powerful impact on relations between
different groups who for the most part live peacefully alongside each other in
the UK and that impact would probably have still been reverberating today.

``There can be little doubt that a violent attack of the kind intended to be
carried out would have been bound to draw a response in revenge from its target
and most likely would have led to a tit-for-tat spiral of violence and terror.
The defendants anticipated as much.''

She added: ``The plan was only averted because the rally finished earlier than
expected and the crowd had dispersed by the time the defendants arrived.
Importantly, although this particular attack was averted there is no reason to
doubt that had they not been caught, these six men would have pursued their aim
of retaliation and proceeded to carry out their plans on a subsequent
occasion.''

The court heard that the plotters took 10 copies of a document entitled
``Operation: In defense (sic) of the Prophet Muhammad''.

The hate-filled note was addressed to the enemies of Allah and his messenger and
referred to the Queen as the ``kafir (non-believer) female devil''.

At earlier hearings it was revealed that the note said: ``This is a message to
the enemies of Allah and his messenger. This is a message to the kafir
(non-believer) female devil and self-proclaimed Queen Elizabeth and her accursed
jubilee, fooling a nation of blind sheep to your self-proclaimed royalty and
majesty.''

The document addressed the EDL directly, saying: ``To the EDL (English Drunkards
League). O enemies of Allah! We have heard and seen you openly insulting the
final Messenger of Allah... you should know that for every action there is a
reaction.

``Today is a day of retaliation (especially) for your blasphemy of Allah and his
Messenger Muhammad. We love death more than you love life. The penalty for
blasphemy of Allah and his Messenger Muhammad is death.

``What we did today was a direct retaliation of your insulting of the Prophet
Muhammad (peace be upon him) and also in retaliation of your crusade against
Islam/Muslims on a global scale. It is of the greatest honour for us to do what
we did.''

The Old Bailey was told that the six men met at the Darul Ihsaan Islamic and
Fitness Centre in Birmingham, known as the Baker Street gym, on the day before
the planned attack.

Hussain worked at the gym, while all the other men except Saud were members.

Details of extremist material the men had in their possession were also read to
the court. Khan had a green A4 notebook in his bedroom with ``This belongs to
Omar Khan so don't touch'' written on the cover, which contained passages
suggesting jihad is an obligation.

Prosecutors claim Hasseen was the most ``ideologically committed'' of the group,
and he was found to have 859 files containing extreme material. Ahmed had 203,
while Saud possessed 75.

Uddin had material including a number of Islamic chants interspersed with
gunfire stored on his phone, and Hussain had a lecture in which the speaker
said: ``Oh God please blow me up.''

Thursday's sentencing comes amid increased tensions between the EDL and rival
political factions in the wake of the murder of Drummer Lee Rigby.

Graffiti saying ''EDL'' was found daubed at a Somali community centre in Muswell
Hill, north London, which was destroyed by fire on Wednesday. The blaze is being
investigated by counter-terrorism police, but the EDL has denied any
involvement.

Members of the far-right group were encouraged to attend the sentencing via the
group's Twitter feed and Facebook page. end

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2013 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 6, 2013 Thursday 1:33 PM GMT

Islamic terror group planned to spark race war with bomb attack on EDL;
An Islamic terror group planned to spark a race war on the streets of Britain by
bombing a rally of the English Defence League (EDL), a court heard.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 466 words


The gang of six Birmingham fanatics plotted to attack the demonstration with
homemade bombs, guns and knives and possibly wanted to assassinate EDL leader
Tommy Robinson.

The al-Qaeda inspired men have all pleaded guilty to plot, which was only
narrowly averted by their own incompetence and sheer luck.

It also emerged one of the men had been under watch by MI5.

Opening the case at the start of a sentencing hearing at the Old Bailey today,
Bobbie Cheema QC, prosecuting, said had their plan succeeded it would have
caused lasting damage to racial tensions.

She told the court the group wanted to "execute a terrible vengeance" on the EDL
for what they perceived as blasphemy against the Prophet Mohammed.

"It takes but a little contemplation to realise that had the retaliatory attack
gone ahead as planned it would have had a powerful impact on relations between
different groups who for the most part live peacefully alongside each other in
this country and that impact would probably still be reverberating today.

"There can be little doubt that a violent attack of the kind intended to be
carried out would have been bound to draw a response in revenge from its target
and would most likely led to a tit-for-tat spiral of violence and terror.

"The defendants anticipated as much."

In April, Jewel Uddin, 27, Omar Mohammed Khan, 31, Mohammed Hasseen, 24, Anzal
Hussain, 24, Mohammed Saud, 22, and Zohaib Ahmed, 22, all from Birmingham,
pleaded guilty to plotting to attack the EDL.

They hoped to target a rally of up to 750 EDL supporters in Dewsbury in June
last year and maybe assassinate Mr Robinson, who was due to speak there.

Five of the gang went armed with homemade bombs, two shotguns, machetes and
knives.

But in a stroke of luck for the police and MI5, the demonstration finished
earlier than planned and the men turned up too late.

And they were only caught by another blunder because an error by one of the
terrorists when taking out car insurance led to one of their vehicles being
stopped by a traffic officer as they returned home.

Even then, the car sat in pound for two days before the terrorist cache and a
letter attacking the Queen and detailing the plot was discovered.

Ms Cheema said ten copies of the "chilling" letter, headed "Operation in defence
of the prophet Mohammed", were recovered.

"They say 'This is a message to the enemies of Allah and His messenger',"she
said.

"The document then insults HM The Queen who is called the 'Kafir Female Devil
and her accursed Jubilee - fooling a nation of blind sheep' as well as the
'Kafir-Devil, David Cameron and all his allies'.

"Directly to the EDL the document says 'We love death more than you love life.
The penalty for blasphemy (of Allah and his messenger Muhammad) is death' and
later, 'You are a people who are worse than animals."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  West Briton

                                  June 6, 2013
                                   Edition 4;
                                National Edition

Camborne pays tribute to terror-attack victim

BYLINE: Katri Iivonen-Gray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 206 words


PEOPLE in Camborne have paid their respects to Drummer Lee Rigby, the
25-year-old soldier murdered outside Woolwich Barracks by two terror suspects.

Following the incident flowers and a T-shirt carrying the words "RIP Lee Rigby"
were laid outside Camborne parish church.

An Afghan Heroes flag was placed there by Camborne biker Brian Lupton, who has
been supporting the British troops through the national Ride of Respect movement
over the past four years.

The married grandfather of three said: "I could not make the Ride to London but
I wanted to do something to remember him. I had this Afghan Heroes flag in my
garage so I thought it would be appropriate to put it there.

"My eldest son is of the same age as soldier Rigby. So many families have lost
their sons, husbands and fathers and I feel lucky to be able to wish my son
happy birthday and Christmas every year so this was my way of saying thank you
for what they have done for our country."

The Reverend Mike Firbank said his congregation lit a candle for the soldier on
Sunday and said prayers for his family and colleagues.

He added: "I don't know who placed the tributes on the railings; however as the
local chaplain for the British Legion I believe that they are a lovely thought."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A tribute to Lee Rigby by the war memorial outside Camborne Church.
www.westbriton.co.uk/buyaphoto

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WBR


                           Copyright 2013 West Briton
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 7, 2013 Friday
                              Correction Appended

(Corr) Six Georgian soldiers killed, nine wounded in terrorist attack in Afghani

LENGTH: 651 words


(Correction: Changing "seven" to "six" in the headline and intro; a corrected
version for the item follows:)

Six Georgian soldiers have been killed and nine wounded in a suicide bomb attack
in Afghanistan's Helmand Province.At a special briefing held at the Georgian
Defence Ministry on 6 June, Irakli Dzneladze, the chief of the Joint Staff of
the Georgian Armed Forces, spoke at a special briefing held in this connection.
The briefing was broadcast live by the Georgian Rustavi-2 TV station during its
main news bulletin "Kurieri"."A terrorist attack was carried out on the Georgian
base in Afghanistan's Helmand Province. A suicide bomber exploded a lorry close
to our base," Dzneladze said and added: "There are wounded and killed
[soldiers]. Seven soldiers died. They are: Cpl Teimuraz Gortavadze, Cpl Giorgi
Adamov, private Zurab Gurgenashvili, private Mikheil Narindoshvili, private
Boris Tsugoshvili, and private Zviad Sulkhanishvili.

One soldier - private Giorgi Ghuchashvili - got under rubbles".Dzneladze also
noted that nine soldiers were wounded, but all of them had been delivered to a
military hospital and their lives were not under threat."Despite these attacks,
the Georgian military, who are protecting our country's interests in the
international mission, are in full readiness to complete the tasks they have
been charged with," Dzneladze said in conclusion.A few minutes later, "Kurieri"
presented said that the Defence Ministry contacted Rustavi-2 and told the TV
station that incorrect information was voiced at the briefing. Six soldiers were
killed and rescuers were searching for the seventh soldier - Giorgi Ghuchashvili
- under the rubbles.A few minutes later, "Kurieri" broadcast live Georgian
President Mikheil Saakashvili's address to the nation in connection with the
terrorist attack."Georgia has made another sacrifice for our freedom and
independence on the very difficult and thorny path to the family of the world's
civilized nations," Saakashvili said, describing the death of the Georgian
soldiers as a "very heavy blow and very heavy loss for each of us"."I have had
three opportunities to meet our soldiers [in Afghanistan] and I know how proud
they are of the mission they are accomplishing. I know how courageous and heroic
their actions are every day, every night, day and night during the mission," the
president added.Saakashvili explained why Georgia needed to dispatch soldiers to
such missions. "We are present in Afghanistan, because ultimately, this serves
the strengthening of our country, the establishment of our country on the world
map, and serves the purpose of Georgia's survival as an independence state. This
is possible only if we are in the orbits of powerful alliances, if we move
towards the membership of powerful alliances and integration in the
Euro-Atlantic area, and if we manage to connect our security with global
security, which, of course, means that we will share the risks linked to global
security," Saakashvili said.He reminded that Russia had occupied 20 per cent of
Georgia's territory. "A powerful rival constantly threatens us. Georgia's
sovereignty is under constant pressure and threats from a strong enemy, " the
president said, reminding that it was "very strong and courageous actions of our
allies, together with our Army" that "saved Georgia's statehood in conditions of
a large-scale invasion" of Russian troops in August."We learned the lesson that
we do not have the luxury of remaining alone in any conditions," Saakashvili
stressed, adding that "our fighters fell victim to the future of our children in
Helmand Province today"."Our obligation to the memory of each of them is not to
lose heart, not to retreat, continue Georgia's movement towards the
Euro-Atlantic area, continue everyday struggle for Georgia's independence to our
last breath" to ensure Georgia's survival and development, Saakashvili
concluded.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 7, 2013



CORRECTION: (Correction: Changing "seven" to "six" in the headline and intro; a
corrected version for the item follows:)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 7, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Erdogan attacks 'terrorist' role in demonstrations

BYLINE: Ruth Sherlock

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 222 words


RECEP Tayyip Erdogan, the Turkish prime minister, accused "terrorists" of taking
part in anti-government protests that have gripped the country, as he refused
yesterday to cancel a controversial development that provoked the demonstrations
a week ago.

Reflecting fears that the defiant speech would infuriate protesters and prolong
the mass demonstrations, the country's stock exchange dropped by 4.7 per cent -
a slide of 12 per cent this week.

"Among the protesters, there are extremists, some of them implicated in
terrorism," Mr Erdogan said during a press conference in Tunis, on the last day
of his North Africa tour. "Supporters of this terrorist organisation were
present" in Istanbul's Taksim Square, the centre of the protests, he added.

Mr Erdogan refused to back down on the proposal to build on Gezi Park in
Istanbul, the issue that led to the demonstrations. "We will not allow a
minority to dictate to the majority, nor will we accept the tyranny of the
majority," he said.

Seven foreigners had been implicated in the violence, according to Mr Erdogan,
who added that he did not link the environmental activists to the unrest.

The prime minister was due to return to Istanbul last night. Huseyin Celik,
deputy chairman of his party, warned members not to welcome him at the airport,
to avoid escalating tensions.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 7, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Secret phone spy programme foiled terrorist attack, says White House

BYLINE: Jon Swaine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 524 words


PRESIDENT Barack Obama and senior congressmen yesterday defended a secret spying
programme that collects the telephone records of millions of Americans, saying
it had helped to thwart a domestic terrorist plot.

White House officials said the surveillance scheme, which has been authorised by
a secret court for the past seven years, was "a critical tool in protecting the
nation".

"It allows counter-terrorism personnel to discover whether known or suspected
terrorists have been in contact with other persons who may be engaged in
terrorist activities," an official said.

The National Security Agency (NSA) programme, which appears to harvest data on
every call made by US telephone users, was exposed in a leaked order by the
secret court.

Mike Rogers, the Republican chairman of the House intelligence committee, said:
"Within the last few years, this programme was used to stop a terrorist attack
in the United States".

Dianne Feinstein, the Democratic chairman of the Senate intelligence committee,
added: "It's called protecting America".

The disclosure of the scheme heaped more pressure on Mr Obama's administration,
amid anger over its aggressive pursuit of journalists suspected of receiving
leaks from government officials.

The court order, marked "top secret", directed Verizon, one of America's biggest
telecommunications corporations, to hand over information on an "ongoing, daily
basis" about every call made by its customers within the US and from the US to
numbers overseas.

This data includes numbers dialled, duration of calls and the locations of
callers, but not the contents of the calls, according to the order, obtained by
the Guardian.

The order was signed on April 25 by a judge at the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court, which sits secretly in Washington. It authorised three
months of surveillance by the NSA, yet appeared to be only the latest in a
recurring series of rulings.

"This has been going on for seven years," said Saxby Chambliss, the senior
Republican senator on the intelligence committee. "It has proved meritorious
because we have collected significant information on bad guys, but only on bad
guys, over the years."

About one billion telephone calls are handled daily by Verizon's landlines,
while its mobile phone arm has almost 100 million customers.

Former NSA officials said other US telecommunications firms were subject to
similar court orders. Officials and senators declined to comment, as did company
spokesmen.

Partial accounts of the scheme have emerged since 2006, when George W Bush was
said to have authorised a vast domestic spying apparatus. Yet the leaked order,
the first from the secret court to be publicly disclosed, provided concrete
proof for the first time of the extent of America's internal surveillance
programme.

The NSA surveillance programme was described as "unconstitutional" by the
American Civil Liberties Union, which called for the scheme to be abandoned and
investigated by Congress.

Al Gore, the former vice-president, said: "In the digital era, privacy must be a
priority. Is it just me, or is secret blanket surveillance obscenely
outrageous?"

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              June 7, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

New York bans UN Routemaster ride in terror attack fear

BYLINE: Nick Hodgson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 144 words


A RIDE through New York by United Nations ambassadors on a London bus was axed
amid security fears after the killing of Drummer Lee Rigby in Woolwich.

The trip was intended to publicise Britain taking over the UN Security Council
presidency this month, and to promote UK tourism.

Police would only allow the 15 security council ambassadors - including
Britain's Sir Mark Lyall Grant - to ride on the red double-decker inside the UN
compound. The ban came only weeks after David Cameron and Prince Harry were
allowed to tour New York in a Routemaster bus.

Police deputy commissioner Paul Browne said: "We thought they were too many
high-risk targets, in such close proximity in time to the attack on the serving
British Army officer in Woolwich."

Mr Cameron and Harry's trip was different as their own "very competent" security
augmented police protection, added Mr Browne.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Kent and Sussex Courier

                                  June 7, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Simple fear of difference can easily turn to hatred;
The Rev Liza Waller, chaplain to Hospice in the Weald in Pembury, won applause
from an 100-strong congregation at St Peter's Pembury on Sunday when she
preached on the difficulties faced by Muslims after the Woolwich terror attacks.
Below is an excerpt from her sermon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 771 words


I'm sure like me you were shocked by the events in Woolwich a couple of weeks
ago - the killing of an army soldier by men claiming this was justified by their
Islamic faith - it has made us think (again) about our attitudes to those who
are "outsiders", "foreign" - different from us.

As humans we don't cope very well with difference.

We like people to be like us, and if they're not then they quickly become a
"them", or an "other".

And in order to maintain and justify our "us"ness, being "other" they quickly
and easily can become 'bad'.

This is the heart of racism, homophobia or any other kind of prejudice or
violence against another human being.

And so it is truly difficult when those, in this case from a different faith, or
culture, act and behave in ways that we would indeed find repelling or
appalling, as we did with the violent machete attack of this soldier.

For many it confirmed all sorts of prejudice and racism - it tapped into this
basic human aversion we are tempted to have to those who are different - "there
you are I told you so," and "we shouldn't have 'them' in this country anyway."

This in itself was shocking to hear, and to witness the violent attacks on
Muslims and mosques around the country.

We easily demonise whole categories of people that we perceive as different and
make them "outsiders" to reject and to har m. Rather than collude with this we
need to repent of our own same attitudes when they arise.

We need to pray for our sisters and brothers who are Muslim today and who live
now even more deeply fearful as a result of this atrocity. And we need to pray
for all those working to bring tolerance and understanding among communities of
diverse faiths and cultures. We need to pray that this deep seated hatred of the
"other" does not get translated and extended into yet more violence and hatred.
Outsider I've spent a lot of my life feeling different, an outsider in various
ways - I was raised a vicar's daughter (later a bishop's daughter), was new at
many schools so I was always wearing the "wrong" uniform, the one that stood out
as different, and frequently asked "'are you the new girl"? I had a sister with
severe and special needs; I am a lesbian priest.

Feeling different, an outsider in whatever form makes us feel vulnerable. Maybe
you have your own version and experience.

There are many vulnerable Muslims today with good and honest and loving hearts
who we need to feel welcomed in to our hearts and pray for their safety and well
being.

I recently invited the Imam from Tunbridge Wells to the hospice. The Imam spoke
of the challenge to support young Muslim people in this area where they are in
the minority.

I e-mailed him after recent national events to express my support and warm
wishes and hoped he was well.

He replied with appreciation saying "it''s just so wonderful to receive e-mails
from people who understand that the recent events do not mean that all Muslims
are the same.

"We greatly appreciate your kind gesture."

It doesn't take much to reach out.

Can we listen to perspectives other than our own? Can we feel our own
vulnerability and fragility that can give us empathy with another? Can we build
a community here in Pembury and Tunbridge Wells in which all voices of
difference can be heard without fear and prejudice? At this time of year when we
may be tending our gardens - we trim our hedges - hedges keep us in, keep others
out, keep our gardens boundaried, keep us 'safe' inside. Edges on the other hand
take us out to the beyond of where we know, to somewhere new to places of
learning and discovery.

Can we live with fewer "hedges" and instead open up to learn from our "edges"?
At St Peter's, I know there is a real commitment to do so - we are a truly
inclusive church which is why I for one feel at home here - let's go even
further and deepen this commitment.

In Luke's Gospel, chapter 7, we read how Jesus was "amazed" by the faith of the
gentile centurion, and later on how he allowed himself to be touched and
anointed by a woman in a Pharisees house.

We recall the faith of the Syro Phonecian woman (Matthew 15) and how in Luke 10
Jesus makes the Samaritan, the despised of his day, the good example.

All these were "outsiders". Jesus asks his disciples (Luke 6 v 46): "Why do you
call me Lord, and do not do what I say?" Let us do what he says: Love our
neighbour and welcome the stranger in our midst.

Let us not be afraid to reach out to those who are different.

Who knows, like Jesus himself, we may just be amazed, learn, and be inspired.

BREADTH OF OPINION ¦ Read regular articles from all our contributors online:
VISIT OUR WEBSITE AT courier.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATROCITY: Soldier Lee Rigby was murdered in the Woolwich attack
REACHING OUT: Chaplain to Hospice in the Weald in Pembury, the Rev Liza Waller

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KSC


                     Copyright 2013 Kent and Sussex Courier
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 7, 2013 Friday 2:27 PM GMT

Jihadist terror group planned attack on EDL rally out of boredom;
An Islamic terror group plotted to bomb the English Defence League for
"blasphemy" because they were bored and not very intelligent, a court heard
today.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 387 words


The al-Qaeda inspired Jihadist cell, from Birmingham, planned to attack an EDL
rally last year with homemade bombs, guns and knives.

A note by the group said the planned outrage was a reaction to the blasphemy of
the Prophet Mohammed.

Joel Bennathan QC, defending one of the men Omar Khan, said the men had been
reacting to what they saw as regular insults to Islam by members of the EDL that
they will have seen on the internet.

But he told the Old Bailey: "This is a group of young men who are young, who are
bored, not particularly intellectual an over reacted in a way that is wrong and
in a way that is criminal."

Jewel Uddin, 27, Omar Mohammed Khan, 31, Mohammed Hasseen, 24, Anzal Hussain,
24, Mohammed Saud, 22, and Zohaib Ahmed, 22, all from Birmingham, have pleaded
guilty to plotting to attack the EDL in Dewsbury in June last year.

They are being sentenced at the Old Bailey and Mr Bennathan said they were
"amateurish" at best and even turned up late for the rally.

"To call it amateurish is to flatter it," he said. "It shows a lack of
determination to carry out their plan."

The court was told how the men would have seen regular attacks on the Muslim
faith by the EDL over the internet.

They included claims that the Prophet Mohammed was a paedophile and worse than
Hitler and chants of "burn the mosque".

Mr Bennathan said the EDL fitted in with a long tradition of right wing groups
antagonising Muslims and that the incident was not so much a terrorist incident
but a domestic dispute.

Despite the use of Jihadist language in their note, he said: "This was
undoubtedly a domestic bit of planned violence by young British men reacting to
the calculated insults of other young British men."

He said the men had no intention to kill anyone and that the whole group now
accept that everyone has a right to air their views whether insulting or not.

He said: "There is an acceptance now that people living in a liberal democracy
in the UK have a right to express views even if other people disagree with those
views or find them upsetting."

The court was told yesterday how the group wanted to start a race war with an
army of young Muslim martyrs.

The plot was only narrowly averted by the group's own incompetence and sheer
luck.

EDL leader Tommy Robinson was in court to watch proceedings.

The hearing continues.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 8, 2013 Saturday

Yemeni official says Al-Qa'idah plans to use stolen cars in terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 318 words


Text of report in English by Yemen Times newspaper website on 6 June

[Report by Nasir al-Saqaf: "Al-Qa'idah steals government cars in Ta'izz"]

In recent months, the theft of state vehicles has become a serious problem
throughout the country and in this central governorate in particular, security
officials said.

Brigadier Mohammed Al-Shairi, the security manager of Ta'izz, said that in the
past three months, five cars - bearing government license plates - were hijacked
by members of Ansar al-Shari'ah, an offshoot of Al-Qa'idah.

The government plates, Al-Shairi said, allow the gangs to travel incognito,
passing for government employees and passing freely through checkpoints.

"These thieves aim to use the stolen cars in terrorist operations or to travel
from one governorate to another," Al-Shairi said.

The gangs are based between Al-Udain district of Ibb and Ta'izz, Al-Shairi said.

State vehicles were targets in Ta'izz during the 2011 revolution, too Al-Shairi
said.

Out of five stolen government cars in Ta'izz, three were retrieved in
cooperation with the security authorities in Ibb and Dhamar as well as members
of parliament, Al-Shairi said.

He added the perpetrators could resort to murder, citing the killing of
Abduljabar Al-Qubalani who was killed in Al-Hwaban on Friday while driving a car
bearing a state registration plate, which belonged to one of his relatives, a
government official.

Brigadier Salih Al-Asbahi, a teaching staff member in the Military Academy,
assessed that the country's fractured security situation has emboldened the
gangs involved in car theft.

"There are no punitive measures for the car thieves. Even if the thief is
captured, he is quickly released," Al-Asbahi said. "In this case, the government
is the first to disobey the law."

The Security Information Centre has recorded a total of 862 car thefts
nationwide in 2012.

Source: Yemen Times website, Sanaa, in English 6 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 9, 2013 Sunday

Afghan female religious students urged to help fight terror, suicide attacks

LENGTH: 277 words


Text of report by state-owned National Afghanistan TV on 7 June

[Presenter] In a meeting with about 1,000 girls and women who study Islamic
subjects in a religious school, the governor of Konduz Province has asked them
to inform people, in the light of Islamic principles, about the dangers of
terrorism, suicide attacks and explosions - acts that defame Islam.

[Correspondent] Mohammad Anwar Jegdalek, adviser minister and the governor of
Konduz Province, together with a number of religious scholars, met the teachers
and students of the Ashraf al-Madares religious school. About 1,000 girls and
women study Islamic subjects in this religious school.

The governor of Konduz assured them that the Afghan government, particularly the
local administration in Konduz, supported Islamic education, particularly for
women. He promised that his office will provide the necessary assistance. The
governor of Konduz said that unfortunately, a number of organised networks in
Afghanistan promoted violence, suicide and explosions in the country by misusing
religion. He asked them to educate the people about the Islamic principles,
which are peace, humanity and justice, and to prevent propaganda that misuse
Islam.

The principal of the religious school, Mufti Seraj, the deputy chairman of the
provincial council in Konduz, Mawlawi Khosh Mohammad and a number of girls and
[women] students of the religious school thanked the governor for his attention.
They said lack of a big and comprehensive religious school in the province was
one of the fundamental issues that the government should pay attention to.

Source: National Afghanistan TV, Kabul, in Dari 1530 gmt 7 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 9, 2013 Sunday

"Terrorists" reportedly attack Syria's Al-Qabun power station

LENGTH: 96 words


Text of report by B. Mousa / M. Ismaeli published in English by state-run Syrian
news agency SANA website

Damascus - Terrorists fired a mortar shell on Al-Qabun II station, causing
damage to it.

An official source at the Electricity Ministry said that the attack caused the
burning of the main transformers in the station and put it out of service.

The source added that the maintenance workshops started to repair the damage in
the station and work to find another source to provide the northeast of Damascus
with power.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 7 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 10, 2013 Monday

Two Algerian soldiers injured in Lakhdaria area "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 139 words


Text of report Faycal Hamdani: "Two Soldiers Injured in a Terrorist Attack in
Lakhdaria," published by Algerian electronic daily Tout sur l'Algerie website on
8 June

Two soldiers were slightly wounded this Saturday, 8 June, in a terrorist attack
on the edge of the municipality of Maala, on the heights of Lakhdaria 50
kilometres to the west of Bouira, it was learned from a local security source.

Terrorists, of an undetermined number, riddled the vehicle with bullets on board
which the two soldiers, in civilian garb, had been.

The two soldiers had left their military camp located in that municipality and
been heading towards Lakhdaria, according to the same sources.

The forces of the National People's Army [ANP] immediately launched a search for
the perpetrators of this attack.

Source: Tout sur l'Algerie website in French 8 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 10, 2013 Monday 2:23 PM GMT

Judge attacks 'tide' of online extremism as he jails terror group;
A judge criticised the "tide of extremist material" freely available on the
internet as he jailed a gang of Islamic fanatics who planned to bomb the English
Defence League.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 669 words


Nicholas Hilliard QC said such radicalising material was not difficult to find
or share, which was an issue of "continuing significance".

He said its presence was partly to blame for the terrorist plot to attack an EDL
rally with homemade bombs, guns and knives.

In the wake of the unconnected Woolwich atrocity, which saw British soldier Lee
Rigby allegedly murdered by apparent Islamic extremists, internet companies and
providers have been under increasing pressure to do more to curb extremist
videos and material online.

Sentencing the Birmingham-based gang for up to 19 and a half years at the Old
Bailey, Judge Hilliard said: "How was it that you became involved in a crime of
this gravity?

"At least part of the answer to that question must come in the tide of
apparently freely available extremist material in which most of you had immersed
yourselves.

"In my view this aspect of the case has a continuing significance."

He said such material was "not difficult either to obtain or share", adding: "In
this case, it can only have served to reinforce the defendants' resolve to
behave in the hideous way that was planned."

Between them, the six men had up to 18,000 separate pieces of Islamic
ideological and extremist material on their computers and phones.

Jewel Uddin, 27, Omar Mohammed Khan, 31, Mohammed Hasseen, 24, Anzal Hussain,
25, Mohammed Saud, 23, and Zohaib Ahmed, 22, all from Birmingham, admitted
planning the EDL attack at a hearing in April.

They planned to target a rally in Dewsbury in June last year but, in a stroke of
luck for the police, turned up too late and missed it.

The group was caught by another blunder because an error by one of the
terrorists when taking out car insurance led to one of their vehicles being
stopped by a traffic officer as they returned home.

Even then, the car sat in pound for two days before the terrorist cache and a
letter attacking the Queen and detailing the plot was discovered.

Judge Hilliard dismissed defence claims that the plot was "amateurish" and was
instead "wide ranging and determined" which could have killed.

The group's actions would have led to a "spiral of tit for tat violence", he
added, and it was "inconceivable" that the men's resolve for another attack had
evaporated as a result their blunders.

"That is a particularly serious aspect of this case. That simply cannot be an
aspect of life in a society where the overwhelming majority choose to live in
harmony with their fellow men and women," he said.

He said the men had narrowly avoided life sentences and instead, he jailed Khan,
Uddin and Ahmed for 19-and-a-half years with an extended licence period of five
years after that.

Saud, Hasseen and Hussain jailed for 18 years and nine months followed by an
extended licence period of five years.

All six men will serve two thirds of their custodial terms before being eligible
for parole.

EDL leader Tommy Robinson and his Deputy Kevin Carroll called out "God save the
Queen" from the public gallery at the end of the hearing.

But prior to that, the judge has also criticised the far right group's
activities, which the terror cell had claimed they were retaliating to.

He said he had seen and heard material linked to Islamophobic obscenities used
at some EDL events, but violence was not the right response.

"Unlawful violence of any kind, and foul and inflammatory insults of a racial
nature or directed towards a particular religious group deserve at the least
unequivocal condemnation, whoever or whatever the source," he said.

"I acknowledge the unrest and enormous distress such behaviour gives rise to.
But as a response, more unlawful violence is not on the list of options."

A woman broke down in tears as the men were sentenced, while supporters of the
defendants shouted "Allahu akbar".

West Midlands Assistant Chief Constable Marcus Beale said of the gang: "It was a
horrible attack and it would have had a profound effect on many of our
communities.

"They are evil people and they are rightly now in prison."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             June 11, 2013 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Six jailed for failed rally terror attack

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 320 words


Six men have been jailed for up to 19 and a half years each for a thwarted
terror attack in June last year.

At the Old Bailey in London, Judge Nicholas Hilliard QC said the Islamic
extremists' plot for a violent confrontation with the English Defence League had
been inspired by "freely available extremist material".

The men were caught after travelling to an English Defence League rally on June
30, in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, and found to be armed with an arsenal of
weapons including two shotguns, swords, knives, a nail bomb and a partially
assembled pipe bomb.

Jewel Uddin, 27, Omar Mohammed Khan, 31, Mohammed Hasseen, 24, Anzal Hussain,
25, Mohammed Saud, 23, and Zohaib Ahmed, 22, who are all from the West Midlands,
admitted planning the attack at a hearing on April 30.

Khan, Uddin and Ahmed were jailed for 19-and-a-half years with an extended
licence period of five years. The other three were given jail terms of 18 years
and nine months and an extended licence period of five years.

The judge said: "How was it that you became involved in a crime of this gravity?
At least part of the answer to that question must come in the tide of apparently
freely available extremist material in which most of you had immersed
yourselves."

With the exception of  Hasseen, the group travelled to Dewsbury with the
intention of causing mass injuries and deaths. Their plan failed because the EDL
rally ended earlier than expected.

All six men will now serve at least two-thirds of the jail terms before they can
be considered for parole.

EDL leader Tommy Robinson and his deputy Kevin Carroll called out "God save the
Queen" from the public gallery, while supporters of the defendants shouted
"Allahu Akbar".

Judge Hilliard said: "There is no reason to suppose that a further attempt may
not have been made in the future had the defendants not been apprehended. I find
it inconceivable that your resolve would have evaporated."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 12, 2013 Wednesday

Turkish Foreign Ministry condemns latest terror attacks in Iraq

LENGTH: 177 words


Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also
known as Anatolia)

[Unattributed report: "Turkey Condemns Latest Terror Attacks in Iraq"]

Ankara (AA) - The Turkish Foreign Ministry condemned Monday's [10 June] terror
attacks in Iraq which killed more than 70 people and wounded nearly 250 others.

"We have learned with great sorrow that more than 70 people were killed and
nearly 250 others were wounded during bomb attacks on Monday in several cities
of Iraq, including Mosul. We wish God's mercy upon those who lost their lives in
the sad incidents and a speedy recovery to the injured.

"Once again, we observe that security has worsened in the last couple of months
in Iraq. We affirm that we will continue to be in solidarity with the Iraqi
people against terrorism. On this occasion, we wish that delayed Mosul and
al-Anbar provincial council elections will be held peacefully, safely and in a
fair manner on June 20," the ministry said.

Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency, Ankara, in English 1652
gmt 11 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 12, 2013 Wednesday

Afghan senators accuse senior officials of having hand in terror attacks

LENGTH: 423 words


Text of report by Afghan Tolo News TV on 11 June

[Presenter] It is believed that some government officials have a hand in
transferring terrorists to Afghanistan and closely cooperate with spy agencies
of the region's countries. Some Afghan senators say all terrorist attacks are
masterminded in Pakistan which will never stop interfering in Afghanistan. The
Senate Speaker says the armed opponents will never hold talks unless the
government exerts more military pressure on them. Rafi Sediqi reports.

[Correspondent] Terrorist attacks are masterminded in Pakistan in close
collaboration with some Afghan officials, and terrorists are transferred in cars
with tinted windows from one part of the country to another to carry out
terrorist attacks. Praising the Afghan security forces for containing terrorist
attacks in the country, some senators say terrorist groups will never succeed in
carrying out attacks unless they receive support from government officials.

[Daud Asas, senator, captioned, speaking at a session in Pashto] The government
itself transferred the Taleban to the airport. The Taleban were taken to the
main office of the Zabol provincial council. Senior officials transferred them
to carry out the explosions. How could they transfer so much ammunition without
help?

[Farida Kochi, senator, captioned, speaking at a session in Pashto] Officials
have a hand in this. These suicide bombers could not reach the Zabol provincial
council or the airport without help. How could they reach there when a large
number of police were guarding?

[Zahra Sharifi, senator, captioned, speaking at a session] This is an
intelligence war. Unfortunately, Afghan intelligence and detective bodies cannot
fulfil their obligations and I do not know why.

[Correspondent] The Senate Speaker says the war in the country will never end
with the government's policy of pleading.

[Fazel Hadi Moslemyar, Senate Speaker, captioned, speaking at a session] The
government should make clear that we are not beggars. We are not beggars and we
do not want to have peace by begging. We want to achieve peace with our
strength. The enemy should be approached from a position of strength. If the
enemy does not want to reconcile, action should be taken against it anywhere.

[Correspondent] These senators also say the government should review its
policies towards its armed opponents and refrain from paying the Taleban and
other armed opponents in the name of peace talks and from playing with the
people's destiny.

Source: Tolo News, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 11 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      June 12, 2013 Wednesday 9:37 PM GMT

NSA chief says surveillance programs have blocked 'dozens' of terror attacks
against the U.S.

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER and REUTERS REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 926 words



     ·    Keith Alexander said the U.S. is less safe now than it was before
          Edward Snowden leaked information about surveillance systems
     ·    'If we tell terrorists what we're going to do, Americans will die'
     ·    He said the systems helped thwart attack on the New York subway
     ·    He added he had 'great concerns' about Snowden's qualifications


The director of the National Security Agency has defended government programs
that monitor phone calls and emails, claiming they have disrupted 'dozens' of
terrorist attacks.

NSA director Keith Alexander defended the programs as 'critical' at a Senate
hearing on Wednesday - a week after a former contractor, Edward Snowden, leaked
information about the snooping.

While he refused to discuss specifics, he did say federal data mining appeared
to play a role in helping disrupt a recent plot to attack the New York subway
system.

He said information developed overseas was passed along to the FBI and used to
identify suspect Najibullah Zazi in Colorado and uncover the plot. He pleaded
guilty to terror-related charges in 2010.

At the hearing on Capitol Hill, Alexander also expressed his concerns about
Snowden's qualifications. He was entrusted with the government's top secrets
despite dropping out of high school.

'I do have concerns about that. I have great concerns about that,' he said.

Alexander insisted that the programs were key for the nation's security and
following Snowden's leaks, the country is much less safe than it was two weeks
ago.

'We're trying to be transparent here, protect civil liberties and privacy, but
also the security of the U.S.,' he said. 'If we tell the terrorists what we're
going to do, they will get through and Americans will die.'

Sen. Patrick Leahy, who led the hearing on Capitol Hill, pressed Alexander for
further details on the activities that had been disrupted, but Alexander said
much of the information was classified.

Alexander said he hopes to reveal details of the cases in a week and pledged
that the agency would be more transparent with the phone records program in the
future.

He said the NSA is amassing data and 'only in specific times' with the okay of
justice and a court, do they actually access it.

DID SURVEILLANCE 'THWART NEW YORK SUBWAY ATTACK?'

In 2009, Najibullah Zazi plotted with two friends to detonate bombs in New York
City during rush hour in the middle of trains.

Last week, sources told Reuters that thanks to the surveillance systems,
authorities were monitoring an e-mail address known to belong to a member of Al
Qaeda. Zazi e-mailed that address and revealed himself and his plans. He was
arrested and now faces life in prison.

When news of the phone-records program broke, officials quickly credited it with
thwarting the attack.

But the use of PRISM to catch Zazi does little to resolve one of the key
questions in the debate: whether the government needs to take such vast amounts
of data to keep the country safe.

That's because, even before the surveillance laws of 2007 and 2008, the FBI had
the authority to monitor email accounts linked to terrorists. The only
difference was, before the laws changed, the government needed a warrant.

To get a warrant, the law requires that the government show that the target is a
suspected member of a terrorist group or foreign government, something that had
been well established at that point in the Zazi case.

In response, Leahy said the intelligence community believes that these
surveillance programs are critical, but he added that he thinks they should not
be made permanent and that Congress should be able to review and debate them
periodically.

Alexander spoke out after Snowden, a former CIA analyst, leaked information last
week about programs that track phone calls and information from large internet
companies.

At the hearing, Sen. Collins asked Alexander when Snowden would have been able
to tap into virtually any call or email as claimed in an interview.

'False,' Alexander responded.

Ahead of the questioning, he said U.S. critical infrastructure - which ranges
from telecommunications to water to energy supplies - is not well prepared to
handle a destructive cyber attack.

'On a scale of one to 10, with 10 being strongly defended, our critical
infrastructure's preparedness to withstand a destructive cyber attack is about a
three based on my experience,' Alexander wrote in the statement prepared for the
Senate Appropriations Committee for a hearing on cybersecurity.

Alexander said the U.S. has been and continues to be a target of cyberattacks by
foreign nations.

About 90 per cent of the nation's critical infrastructure is owned by the
private sector, and therefore is not under the control of the U.S. government or
military.

While he made no mention of the leaks about NSA surveillance programs in this
opening statement, Alexander said it was vital to have a strong Defense
Department role in cyberspace in light of what he called real and growing
threats.

'While we feel confident that most foreign leaders believe that a devastating
attack on the critical infrastructure and population of the United States by
cyber means would elicit a prompt and proportionate response, it is possible,
however, that some regime or cyber actor could misjudge the impact and the
certainty of our resolve,' he said.

Alexander told the Reuters Cybersecurity Summit last month that the United
States was increasingly vulnerable to attacks like those that destroyed data on
tens of thousands of computers in Saudi Arabia and South Korea in the past year.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      June 12, 2013 Wednesday 9:15 PM GMT

NSA chief says surveillance programs have blocked 'dozens' of terror attacks
against the U.S.

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER and REUTERS REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 646 words



     ·    Keith Alexander said the U.S. is less safe now than it was before
          Edward Snowden leaked information about surveillance systems
     ·    'If we tell terrorists what we're going to do, Americans will die'
     ·    He added he had 'great concerns' about Snowden's qualifications


The director of the National Security Agency has defended government programs
that monitor phone calls and emails, claiming they have disrupted dozens of
terrorist attacks.

NSA director Keith Alexander defended the programs at a Senate hearing on
Wednesday - a week after a former contractor, Edward Snowden, leaked information
about the snooping.

At the hearing on Capitol Hill, Alexander also expressed his concerns about
Snowden's qualifications. He was entrusted with the government's top secrets
despite dropping out of high school.

'I do have concerns about that. I have great concerns about that,' he said.

But Alexander insisted that the programs were key for the nation's security and
following Snowden's leaks, the country is much less safe than it was two weeks
ago.

'We're trying to be transparent here, protect civil liberties and privacy, but
also the security of the U.S.,' he said. 'If we tell the terrorists what we're
going to do, they will get through and Americans will die.'

Sen. Patrick Leahy, who led the hearing on Capitol Hill, pressed Alexander for
further details on the activities that had been disrupted, but Alexander said
much of the information was classified.

Alexander said he hopes to reveal details of the cases in a week and pledged
that the agency would be more transparent with the phone records program in the
future.

He said the NSA is amassing data and 'only in specific times' with the okay of
justice and a court, do they actually access it.

In response, Leahy said the intelligence community believes that these
surveillance programs are critical, but he added that he thinks they should not
be made permanent and that Congress should be able to review and debate them
periodically.

Alexander spoke out after Snowden, a former CIA analyst, leaked information last
week about programs that track phone calls and information from large internet
companies.

At the hearing, Sen. Collins asked Alexander when Snowden would have been able
to tap into virtually any call or email as claimed in an interview. 'False,'
Alexander responded.

Ahead of the questioning, he said U.S. critical infrastructure - which ranges
from telecommunications to water to energy supplies - is not well prepared to
handle a destructive cyber attack.

'On a scale of one to 10, with 10 being strongly defended, our critical
infrastructure's preparedness to withstand a destructive cyber attack is about a
three based on my experience,' Alexander wrote in the statement prepared for the
Senate Appropriations Committee for a hearing on cybersecurity.

Alexander said the U.S. has been and continues to be a target of cyberattacks by
foreign nations.

About 90 per cent of the nation's critical infrastructure is owned by the
private sector, and therefore is not under the control of the U.S. government or
military.

While he made no mention of the leaks about NSA surveillance programs in this
opening statement, Alexander said it was vital to have a strong Defense
Department role in cyberspace in light of what he called real and growing
threats.

'While we feel confident that most foreign leaders believe that a devastating
attack on the critical infrastructure and population of the United States by
cyber means would elicit a prompt and proportionate response, it is possible,
however, that some regime or cyber actor could misjudge the impact and the
certainty of our resolve,' he said.

Alexander told the Reuters Cybersecurity Summit last month that the United
States was increasingly vulnerable to attacks like those that destroyed data on
tens of thousands of computers in Saudi Arabia and South Korea in the past year.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 13, 2013 Thursday

Georgian police thwart "terrorist attack", detain two foreigners

LENGTH: 348 words


Georgian police have said that they have thwarted a "terrorist attack" in
Georgia and detained two foreigners behind the planned attack.

"The Georgian Interior Ministry has prevented an attempted terrorist attack that
was in its preparatory stage. In particular, as a result of operational, search
and investigative activities carried out as part of close and efficient
cooperation among the Georgian Anti-Terrorism Centre, other operational units of
the Interior Ministry and the Georgian Prosecutor's Office, foreign nationals,
Mikail Kadiyev and Rizvan Omarov, were detained in the small hours of 13 June in
Tbilisi. A large amount of a powerful explosive substance, presumably plastic
[explosives], and electric detonators, as well as firearms, ammunition and fake
ID documents were seized as a result of searches performed at their temporary
place of residence," Rustavi-2 TV channel showed the Interior Ministry spokesman
Nino Giorgobiani saying at a news briefing.

"At this state of the investigation, it has been ascertained that Kadiyev wanted
by Interpol has been hiding in Georgia since 2011, but he left the country
periodically on several occasions. Intensive investigative and operational and
search measures are under way at this moment to identify and neutralise
accomplices and sponsors of the criminals charged with preparing a terrorist
attack inside the country and within the frameworks of international
antiterrorism cooperation, since an accomplice of Mikail Kadiyev who helped him
in perpetrating a crime abroad was detained in 2012 by law enforcers of a
Western European country. We will keep the public updated about the result of
the investigation. We want to assure you that the Georgian Interior Minsitry
will spare no efforts to protect Georgian citizens from terrorist threats"
Giorgobiani added.

The TV showed blurred footage of purported copies of two opened passports with
the words "Russian Federation" visible, as well as US dollars and Georgian lari,
some wires and blocks of a white substance.

Source: Rustavi-2 TV, Tbilisi, in Georgian 1100gmt 13 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             June 13, 2013 Thursday

Covert surveillance: Senate interrogates NSA over extent of its snooping: 'Why
did you acquire my data', demands Democrat Agency chief: programme thwarted
terror attacks

BYLINE: Spencer Ackerman in Washington

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 939 words


US senators on the Senate's appropriations committee sharply challenged the
director of the National Security Agency yesterday about the extent of the
agency's domestic surveillance, which was first disclosed by the Guardian.

During a tense afternoon hearing, senators of both parties used General Keith
Alexander's first public appearance on Capitol Hill since the Guardian's stories
broke to press him for answers about how its surveillance programmes operate.

Alexander responded by repeating claims that the programmes had thwarted terror
attacks. He said that "dozens" of plots had been foiled in part because of the
domestic surveillance dragnet. But he did not give specific details.

In one testy exchange, senator Jeff Merkley, a Democrat from Oregon, and a
Verizon customer, waved his smartphone at Alexander. "What authorised
investigation gave you the grounds for acquiring my cellphone data," Merkley
asked.

Senator Barbara Mikulski, the committee chairman, said: "Many of us are
concerned about what is the access to people and businesses' information. There
are those, because of the Snowden revelation, who wonder about the government's
access to that information."

Alexander said he struggled with how much detail to provide in public about the
surveillance. "I would rather take a public beating, and let people think I'm
hiding something, than jeopardize the security of this country," Alexander
testified.

He said he would aim to declassify specific cases in which the two surveillance
programmes described by the Guardian had contributed to government efforts at
thwarting terrorist attacks.

But Alexander added new details about how NSA surveillance works - and also
raised unanswered questions about it.

The two programmes in question are distinct, at least as matters of law. One,
justified under Section 215 of the Patriot Act, collects the phone records of
millions of Americans, but is said not to examine their content. The other,
justified under Section 702 of the 2008 Fisa Amendments Act and known as Prism,
relates to the online communications of people believed not to be inside the
United States.

But Alexander said it was difficult, in practice, to separate them, and credit
one programme for contributing to an investigation without crediting the other:
"The reality is, they work together."

Alexander defended the bulk collection by saying it was necessary to give the
NSA the widest possible data pool so it can then query the phone-records
database for specific terrorist interaction with Americans. Once the NSA has
"reasonable, articulable suspicions" of a person's suspected involvement in
terrorism, Alexander said, "we can go backwards in time and see who he was
talking to", then pass that information to the FBI.

"If you don't have that, how do you know who (a terrorist) was talking to?"
Alexander told senator Mike Johanns, a Republican of Nebraska, who worried that
the database could lead to a "telephone records search for all of Omaha".

Alexander added that there were strict rules preventing the NSA from querying
its phone records database without that suspicion, but he left it unclear who
performs the certification that such suspicion rises to the standards under
which the database can be accessed.

A 6 June factsheet from James Clapper, the director of national intelligence,
claimed that the secret Fisa court that oversees surveillance "only allows the
data to be queried when there is a reasonable suspicion, based on specific
facts, that the particular basis for the query is associated with a foreign
terrorist organization".

But the factsheet is ambiguous about whether the court must approve each
specific database search of Americans' phone records, or merely has created
guidelines that the NSA unilaterally executes. Representatives of Clapper and
the NSA did not respond to the Guardian's request for clarification.

In an exchange with Senator Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat of California,
Alexander affirmed that after "five years", the NSA purges the phone records
data it collects from Americans.

Representatives from the NSA, the director of national intelligence, and
Feinstein's office did not respond to questions by the time of publication about
whether any outside body confirms the purge.

The Senate hearing came as Microsoft and Twitter joined Google and Facebook in
urging the US government to allow them to publish details of the secret requests
they receive, asking them to hand over user data under Fisa, which stands for
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.

"Permitting greater transparency on the aggregate volume and scope of national
security requests, including Fisa orders, would help the community understand
and debate these important issues," Microsoft said in a statement.

Twitter's chief lawyer, Alex Macgillivray, said: "We'd like more NSL (national
security letter) transparency and Twitter supports efforts to make that happen."

A national security letter is used by US government agencies such as the FBI and
NSA to demand access to data from companies - who are forbidden from revealing
that they have been served such a request.

Google, Microsoft and Twitter publish "transparency reports" detailing how many
government requests they receive for user data in various countries, but those
reports for the US do not include Fisa requests or other NSL demands. Facebook
has not so far published a transparency report.

Microsoft said: "Our recent report went as far as we legally could and the
government should take action to allow companies to provide additional
transparency."

Captions:

General Keith Alexander, director of the NSA Photograph: Charles Dharapak/AP

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 14, 2013 Friday

Italian police arrest young Moroccan suspected of planning terror attack

LENGTH: 2357 words


Text of report by Italian leading privately-owned centre-right daily Corriere
della Sera website, on 13 June

[Report by Mara Rodella: "He Was Preparing Attack on Soldiers at Railway
Station" followed by box with four more reports; box reports authors and
headlines provided in text]

Anas [Moroccan arrested on terrorism charges - see below] is like Jarmoune
[Moroccan convicted of terrorism charges - see below]: they are both of Moroccan
origin, are the same age (20), they have both lived for years in small villages
in Brescia Province (the former in Niardo, the latter in Vobarno); in truth,
they both have the same obsession for the endless virtual world that is the
internet and were both ready for martyrdom in the name of jihad.

Anas El-Abboubi was arrested at dawn yesterday by the Brescia DIGOS [police
General Investigations and Special Operations Division] and anti-terrorism
forces, he too was planning an attack after selecting his targets, two in
particular: the Goito Barracks and the railway station, which is patrolled every
day by soldiers and police agents. "He was ready to strike," said the DIGOS
official Giovanni De Stavola; "there was a real risk," Fabio Salamone, the
interim prosecutor, confirmed.

The charges are serious: training with the aim of international terrorism and
incitement to racial discrimination and hatred. Two of his "proselytes" are also
being investigated. Hatred for the West reportedly took over El-Abboubi after 11
September 2001, when he was labelled as a "Taleban" a priori.

The police got to him by monitoring the site of "Sharia 4," a radical Islamist
movement banned in several European countries. The 20-year-old planned to be a
point of reference and the founder of the Italian cell by setting up "Sharia 4
Italy." This led to an escalation, that the UCIGOS [Central Office for General
Investigations and Special Operations] official Vincenzo Di Peso described as a
growing path of radicalization" [no opening quotation marks as published]
towards jihad and martyrdom "in the name of his religion."

How did he do so? "By acquiring and disseminating films and documents on the
preparation of explosives, the use of weapons of war, and on close combat and
the use of cold weapons," like the machete used by "two brothers" on 22 May in
London to kill a British soldier. Anas was in touch with the British group, he
even chatted with them a few days before the attack. He also carried out some
research with the presumable purpose of being recruited as a guerrilla in Syria
or to see through his mission here, at the Goito Barracks and the railway
station. "He carried out his virtual inspections there in May," Local Police
Chief Luigi De Matteo said.

People are describing him as a "street jihadi"; he left a spiritual message for
posterity that demonstrates how his role in life was to become a martyr in the
name of his religion: "Martyrdom seduces me, I want to die with a weapon in my
hand, I thirst for battle, for jihad against Italy." He described Jarmoune, the
young man arrested in 2012 in Niardo as "my model," and in fact he followed his
ideology and operational activities.

Report in box by Wilma Petenzi

Local Police Chief and Piazza Della Loggia Also Targeted by Student

Anas El-Abboubi was ready to go into action. The investigators from the Brescia
DIGOS and the central anti-terrorism service are convinced about this, after
monitoring for 10 months, minute by minute, the life of the young Moroccan who
was an aspiring jihadi martyr, by checking his internet access and even
following him to school. The awareness that the young student was ready to carry
out his vendetta against the West came about at the beginning of May, when
El-Abboubi, sitting at his computer in his bedroom consulted the maps of the
targets he was interested in.

With very quick fingers on the keyboard, he downloaded images of the Brescia
police chief and went onto Google Maps to check every detail of the Goito
Barracks in Via Callegari and the railway station. "The Goito barracks in Via
Callegari" - said GIP [Judge for Preliminary Inquiries] Cesare Bonamartini in
the arrest warrant that was issued following a request by Public Prosecutor
Leonardo Lesti - "houses soldiers who are deployed every day to patrol the
railway station."

Investigators were also alerted by other virtual inspections: the student also
searched on Google the Crystal Palace [Brescia skyscraper], the Kennedy
Overpass, and Piazza Della Loggia [square], which is already a symbolic place
for the town [refers to 1974 bomb attack during labour union rally]. The virtual
inspection of potential targets was the apex of the online activity by the
20-year-old man, who kept his ties on the web, gathered information, made
comments, and proposed himself as the point of reference for Sharia 4 Italy.

Anas El-Abboubi did not surf the net using his real name, but investigators
tracked down three different profiles on Facebook, one on Twitter, and one on
YouTube. He was monitored mostly on the web, as of 27 September 2012, when the
young man posted on Facebook a comment on music, labelling it as "haram" - that
is, prohibited by Islam.

The GIP said that this remark is indicative "of the danger posed by a
radicalization path that is the harbinger of jihadi and anti-Semitic stances.
The evidence that was gathered confirmed that El-Abboubi was entrenched in
religious fanaticism and deep hostility against the West."

This post came 10 days after a "kamikaze move" by the young man, who on the 17th
turned up at the local police headquarters to seek information about how to
organize a demonstration in the town against the film "The Innocence of
Muslims." The 20-year-old, aside from seeking permission to hold the
demonstration (which was indeed held on 6 October outside the Freccia Rossa
[Brescia shopping mall]) also said that he wanted to burn the flag of Israel,
and raise banners against Barack Obama. Anas also sought information about
Mohamed Jarmoune, the "terrorist from Niardo."

The online activity of the young Moroccan was quite complex. In November,
investigators recorded another interesting post: almost 30 pages headlined "The
44 ways to support jihad. The ideology of Imam Anwar Al Awlaki," followed by
some personal comments. "The comments," said the GIP, "suggest full endorsement
of the extremist message: fighting the lies of the Western media, encouraging
others to fight a jihad, hate the kuffar ['non believers'], and educate children
to love jihad."

With the computer in his home in Vobarno, the 20-year-old watched video messages
by Usama Bin-Ladin and posted on Facebook the picture of a letter he received
from school for voicing anti-Semitic ideas during a debate on the Shoah in his
classroom. According to investigators, his contacts on the internet were
disturbing, starting with Sharia 4: "He demonstrated full endorsement of radical
teachings, calling for 'God to destroy Belgium and found a caliphate.'"

In his contacts with Sharia 4, the young man voiced his desire to meet with the
leaders (he had the tickets [not further specified], but he did not leave,
either at Christmas or at Easter). According to the DIGOS, a file that was found
on his desktop about his will to die wielding a weapon was noteworthy: "I thirst
for battle," this prayer says, "for jihad against Italy. [no closing quotation
marks as published].

On his PC there was no lack of images of 9/11 and the massacres in London and
Madrid. On 23 May, the day after the killing of the London policeman [as
published, here and below] with a machete, this was his comment: "The soldier
who was killed is the outcome of the violence and arrogance against Muslims in
recent years. Britain should not even whisper today's events [sentence as
published]. France, Britain, and America are the enemies of Islam, and let us
stop feigning peace." The murderer of the British policeman consorted online
with the same people as El-Abboubi. The Moroccan from Vobarno perhaps really was
ready to go into action.

Report in Box by Mara Rodella

The Normal Kid Who Liked Rap But Wanted To Become a Martyr of Islam

A white tunic, combat trousers, and a hat. Anas often used to dress like this to
go to school, the Bottega School based in San Polo, though he attended the
branch in Via Carducci, in the west of the town. He was studying to become an
electronic technician and he should currently be sitting his exams. He was not
exactly getting great results, there was some tension with teachers, and his
behaviour several times led to arguments, even with his classmates.

Anas, who turns 21 in October, did not go to the mosque very much, he did not
consort with the Muslim community. He is an isolated young man who, according to
investigations, fell victim to growing malaise due to his failure to integrate.
And yet, he did try to join in a few years ago, via rap music. In fact, this
teenager, who has lived in Italy since he was six, loved Fabri Fibra [Italian
rapper] and posted dozens of videos of his performances on YouTube; he even
appeared on TV several times, he was even interviewed on MTV, one of the most
renowned international broadcasters for young people.

So, this was a success story, but something went wrong, and the "terrorist path"
at one point in his life seemed to become in his eyes the only thing he could
grasp in order to give meaning to his life. This was the only thing that meant
something to him, but only online, unlike the Muslims of the local communities
[sentence as published]. Yesterday at dawn - with his arms folded, wearing a
yellow T-shirt and tracksuit trousers - he looked on as agents went though his
writings and his books. He then started waving his hands when the agents grabbed
the Sharia flag, the same one that was placed on the US Embassy in Benghazi
after the killing of the US ambassador some months ago.

[Report in box by Alessandra Troncana omitted: reactions from mother,
neighbours]

Report in Box by Marco Toresini

Station Security Provided by 28 Soldiers Joining Mixed Patrols

The Brescia station, which thousands of passengers go through every day, was one
of the targets that Anas El-Abboubi intended to strike. This is a sensitive
target that is protected every day by three patrols, two thirds of which are
constituted by soldiers. Overall, these are 28 army soldiers based at the Goito
Barracks in Via Antonio Callegari who hail from the 121st Rimini Artillery
Battalion. These soldiers do their duty every day, inspecting and patrolling the
area of the station along with police and carabinieri.

Three groups in the morning (from 0800 to 1400), and three in the afternoon
(from 1400 to 2000). At the weekend they work until midnight and they control an
area that also includes Via XX Settembre and the area of the Freccia Rossa
shopping mall. This agreement [for joint patrols] was the outcome of the "Safe
Streets" programme [refers to government programme for deploying army for city
security duties] that has recently been extended until the end of the year.

The retailers in the station have realized that the work of the soldiers has
made the station a safer place and resolved the problems of muggings and drugs.
These very same soldiers who protect the station could have ended up in the
sights of the Moroccan, though none of them shows the slightest sign of tension.
Are they worried? Impossible to say. "We cannot speak," said a soldier in Via
Vincenzo Foppa, "call the military district."

By Platform 1 there was another patrol, but their sense of duty prevailed over
everything: "We are working, and under no circumstances can we say anything," a
soldier politely responded amid the chaos of daily commuters. The soldiers
continue with their work, in the awareness that the operation of the
anti-terrorism nucleus and the DIGOS has nipped a potential terrorist attack in
the bud.

Report in box by Marco Toresini

Mimmo, Anas, and the Other Terrorists Next Door

They live in the valleys of Brescia Province, but they dream of the valleys of
Afghanistan. They live on the shores of the Chiese or the Oglio [small local
rivers], but they dream of the Tigris and the Euphrates. They want to be rescued
by holy war, though the war they should really fight is the daily battle to have
their role recognized in the society in which they have lived for years.

In fact, Brescia society is sometimes inclined towards integration, but at times
she is an evil stepmother with these naturalized children, who are often called
"Taleban" in the meanest sense of the word.

Years ago, on a Sunday like any other in 2004, a man stopped with his car full
of gas canisters in the takeaway lane of a McDonalds in town. He tried to blow
himself up, and ended up being killed by burns without his action causing any
further damage. Mostafa Chouki, 35, a Moroccan, was depressed, his brother said,
but with this spectacular suicide he probably wanted to turn into a martyr, and
avenge who knows what insult made by the West; but perhaps, quite simply, the
psychological pressure he was incapable of coping with in the end killed him
inside, and he sought in religious identity a way of making a comeback.

This is exactly what happened to the timid "Mimmo," the next-door jihadi, a
20-year-old from Niardo who, according to the prosecution, was focusing his
fundamentalist deliriums on a plan to attack the Milan synagogue: Mohamed
Jarmoune worked in a factory, ranted in chat messages, and now will have to
serve a five year and four month jail sentence.

The fate of Mohamed "Mimmo" also caught the attention of Anas, the latest person
beyond suspicion who allegedly wanted to grow up [as published] by attacking
soldiers in service at the Brescia railway station. The DIGOS agents have
stopped him before he could do so, and now, with the man of the same age from
the Camuno area [refers to area in Brescia Province], he not only shares the
same ideology, but also the same judicial fate.

They both thought they were fighting a holy war, but perhaps it was just a
battle against the hardships of integration, which is indeed as tough as an
Afghan mountain.

Source: Corriere della Sera website, Milan, in Italian 13 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 14, 2013 Friday

Defence establishments in east India on high alert over likely terror attack

LENGTH: 360 words


Text of report published by Indian newspaper New Indian Express website on 14
June

Balasore: The 80-km coast from Balasore to Chandabali in Bhadrak district has
been put on high alert following an intelligence input on Wednesday about a
possible terror attack through sea route on vital defence installations here.

Sources said security screw in and around the defence establishments in Balasore
and Bhadrak districts was tightened after the alert was sounded. The
administration has also sealed Bahabalpur and Balaramgadi fishing bases, which
are used as entry points to Chandipur.

While additional forces have been deployed in the defence establishments here,
patrolling along roads leading to them and the east coast has been intensified.
Marine officials have been deployed for round-the-clock patrolling in speed
boats.

Chandipur houses defence institutions like Integrated Test Range (ITR), Proof
and Experimental Establishment (PXE) and Military Engineering Service (MES),
while another missile launching complex is located in Wheeler Island off the
Bhadrak coast.

Source said with the deployment of Quick Reaction Teams (QRTs), all-round
security had been beefed up in PXE and ITR from where a number of sophisticated
rockets and missiles are tested every year. The defence establishments here are
ringed by two tiers of security forces -- Defence Security Forces (DSF) and the
State police. A defence official said entry of outsiders and visitors has been
banned while only authorised card holders are being allowed to enter the
prohibited area.

Similarly, thorough checking and patrolling along the Range road connecting
Balasore with Chandipur have been intensified.

"We usually stay alert all-round the year, but after the intelligence inputs
over the possible attack by the terrorists, we have tightened the security screw
a few notches more," he said, while refusing to divulge the exact number of
forces deployed.

The district police and marine officials also have taken the threat seriously
and made the arrangements accordingly to deal with any eventuality.

Source: The New Indian Express online (www.newindianexpress.com), Chennai, in
English 14 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 15, 2013 Saturday

Pakistan president condemns Balochistan Province terror attacks

LENGTH: 156 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Karachi, 15 June: President Asif Ali Zardari Saturday [15 June] strongly
condemned the bomb blast in a bus of the Women University Quetta that was
followed by terrorist attack at the Bolan Medical Complex.

The attacks killed scores of innocent students and people in both the incidents.

President Zardari said that such terrorist attacks will not weaken the resolve
of the Pakistani nation to defeat the evil once for all.

He termed the blasts and attack as "cowardly and inhuman acts" and expressed his
heartfelt sympathies with the bereaved families. He also directed the concerned
authorities to provide best possible medical assistance to the injured.

The president prayed for the departed souls and also for courage to the bereaved
families to bear these losses with fortitude.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1225gmt
15 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 15, 2013 Saturday

Afghan paper urges unity to end terror attacks

LENGTH: 524 words


Text of editorial: "Need for national unity to stop killing of Afghans and
terrorism" by state-owned Afghan newspaper Hewad on 12 June

The enemies of Islam and humanity once again carried out a suicide attack in
Kabul yesterday. The suicide attacker was driving a Corolla model car and he
targeted the vehicles of the Supreme Court's employees. It resulted in dozens of
casualties of innocent and defenceless civilians. The attack martyred 17 people,
including children and two women, and wounded nearly 50 others, including eight
women. The attack has also broken windows of a number of blocks in third
Microrayan that injured numerous civilians. The attack is once again a big crime
that does not match the Islamic and human values by any means and has been
strongly condemned.

Hamed Karzai also condemned the attack and added that with their malicious
terrorist action, the Taleban showed once again that they are at the service of
the enemies of Islam. Also, these enemies of Islam and humanity beheaded two
boys of 10 and 16 years of age in Zheray District of Kandahar Province on Sunday
[9 June]. Such attacks have increased on Afghanistan recently, but this is the
process of the pressures that the enemies of the Afghan leaders, properties,
country and religion have started long ago. However, the enemies of Islam and
religion will never be able to oppress this nation with such a malicious wave of
attacks. It is necessary, however, to think how such attacks can be prevented.
The US-led international community does not prevent these groups, but overlooks
them. Therefore, it is necessary for the Afghan nation to understand such a
stance led by the US, because terrorists and insurgents are obviously trained
for killing of the Afghans and destroying of the country in the neighbouring
country.

Plans were developed in late 17th century to destroy our nation and country and
they have killed us in various names so far. For this reason, the conspiracies
against the country and the nation do not end but rather intensify. The armed
Taleban have increased their attacks on the country based on the provocation of
the historic enemies whose militants support them in the meantime.

No matter how much the Afghan government and nation have raised the voice of
peace, the Taleban have never heard them because of the provocation of the
historic enemy. Basically, the process of terrorism and insurgency has now
expanded and has become a hurdle before the region and the world. The
international community must prevent this, because terrorism has stretched from
Pakistan to Nigeria and is moving further. If this terrorism is not prevented,
it will face the whole world with problems. Anyhow, since there are numerous
foreign hands behind terrorism and insurgency and they have been prepared for
attacks on the Afghan nation, it is necessary for the Afghans to gather with
national consensus and to find a solution to save Afghanistan from the malicious
plans of the historic enemies. Otherwise, neither the US-led international
community show mercy on us nor is the process of killing of Afghans will end.

Source: Hewad, Kabul, in Pashto 12 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 16, 2013 Sunday

Death toll rises to 30 in Pakistan's Quetta terror attacks

LENGTH: 921 words


Text of report published Pakistani newspaper The News website on 16 June

Quetta: At least 30 people, including 14 students of a women's university, the
deputy commissioner, Quetta, four FC personnel and four nurses died and 16
others sustained injuries in multiple bomb blasts and firing incidents in Quetta
on Saturday [15 June].

The police officials said that 14 students of the Sardar Bahadur Khan Women's
University [SBKWU] were killed while 20 others sustained burn wounds in the
blast in a bus belonging to the university. Almost an hour later, firing and a
suicide attack created panic at the Bolan Medical Complex [BMC], where most of
the wounded had been shifted for treatment.

CCPO Quetta Mir Zubair Mahmood told media persons that the dead in the
university bus blast were all women students, adding that it was an improvised
explosive device. Another police official, Fayyaz Sunbal, said the bomb exploded
after the girl students had boarded and the bus was about to leave the
university to drop the students at their homes in the city.

Officials of the police, FC and administration reached the spot and cordoned off
the area as officials of the bomb disposal squad examined the site of the blast.

As the dead and injured students were shifted to the Bolan Medical Complex,
gunfire along with three explosions - one in the emergency ward - rocked the
premises and at least three officials and four militants were killed in the
ensuing gun battles between security personnel and the militants. More than five
gunmen had taken positions on the premises, restricting security personnel from
entering the complex building. Three soldiers were stated to be killed in an
encounter at the hospital.

CCPO Mehmood confirmed that the Quetta Deputy Commissioner Abdul Mansoor Khan
who was shot in the head and chest during the siege, died.

The siege at the Bolan Medical Complex ended after more than five hours. The
police said they arrested one of the attackers, while four blew themselves up.
Two pedestrians also died in the crossfire.

Deputy Commissioner [DC], Quetta, four personnel from the paramilitary Frontier
Corps (FC) and four nurses were killed during the siege of the Bolan Medical
Complex, according to police and hospital sources.

Edhi Foundation sources said that four soldiers, four nurses, DC Quetta and two
unknown pedestrians died in explosions and firing in addition to the four
attackers.

Following the bomb explosions and exchange of intense firing, panic and fear
gripped the BMC Hospital and its vicinity.

Meanwhile, the government of Balochistan announced a one-day mourning today
(Sunday) against the tragic incidents.

Spokesman for Chief Minister Balochistan, Jan Muhammad Buledi, said that the
national flag would the hoisted at half mast at government buildings all over
the province.

Meanwhile, Balochistan Governor Muhammad Khan Achakzai, Chief Minister Dr Abdul
Malik Baloch as well as the mainstream political and religious parties strongly
condemned the incidents. They termed them as tragic ones.

Balochistan Chief Minister Dr Abdul Malik Baloch also chaired a high-level
meeting to review the law and order situation, particularly following the SBKWU
and BMC bomb explosions and firing incidents.

Agencies add: Meanwhile, President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Nawaz
Sharif strongly condemned the bomb blasts and gunfire at the bus of the Sardar
Bahudar Khan Women University and Bolan Medical Complex.

They deeply regretted the attacks and expressed sorrow and grief over the loss
of lives in the incidents.

President Zardari directed the authorities concerned to take special measures
for the safety and security of the national assets.

Meanwhile, PPP Chairman Bilawal Bhutto Zardari strongly condemned the barbaric
terrorists' attacks on the University bus of Sardar Bahadar Khan Women
University and Bolan Medical Complex resulting in a huge loss of human lives
including girl students and called them inhuman and beastly acts, which the
people of Pakistan would never tolerate.

Others who condemned the tragic incidents in Quetta included Punjab Chief
Minister Shahbaz Sharif, PML-Q [Pakistan Muslim League-Quaid] President Ch.
Shujaat Hussain, MQM [Muttahida Qaumi Movement] leader Altaf Hussain, PTI
[Pakistan Tehrik-i-Insaf] Chairman Imran Khan, JUI-F [Jamiat
Ulema-i-Islami-Fazl] chief Maulana Fazl-ur-Rehman, chief ministers of Punjab,
Sindh and Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, Speaker National Assembly, Senate chairman, PPP
leader Sardar Latif Khosa, NP leader Mir Hasil Bizenjo and other political and
civil society leaders.

Meanwhile, the Pakistan Nursing Federation (PNF) announced three days of
mourning over the killing of nurses at the Bolan Medical Complex hospital.

The media reported that at least four nurses fell victim to the deadly incidents
of firing at Bolan Medical Complex followed by the blast at the Sardar Bahadur
Khan Women University.

According to sources, a nurse, Iffat Fakir Muhammad, fell victim to target
killing at the Bolan Medical Complex hospital while performing her duty.

The deceased hailed from Multan and was to be married in a few days. The
innocent nurse sacrificed her life while performing her duties.

AP adds: The Lashkar-e-Jhangvi claimed responsibility for the attack on the
university bus and the hospital. The group said one of their female suicide
bombers blew up the bus because it was carrying Shias, although officials said
the bus was also carrying students from other religious and ethnic groups.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 16 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 16, 2013 Sunday

Pakistan: Opposition walks out from Senate as protest over terror attacks

LENGTH: 249 words


Text of report by Pakistani news agency APP

Islamabad, 15 June: Opposition in Senate on Saturday [15 June] staged a token
walk out to express anguish over attack on Ziarat residency and killing of women
students in an attack on university bus in Quetta.

During session of Senate, on a point of order, Senator of National Party Mir
Hasil Bizenjo said the incidents in Quetta and Ziarat were strongly condemnable.
The new government, he said, inherited the current problems in Balochistan from
the previous government.

The law enforcement personnel are taking action against the culprits behind the
incidents, he added.

Senator of Pakistan Peoples Party Saifullah Magsi said perpetrators of the
attacks were neither humans nor Muslims.

Senator of Jamiat Ulema Islam Hafiz Hamdullah said a coalition government had
been formed in Balochistan, but still no cabinet is in place.

Senator of Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) Tahir Mashhadi drew attention of the
house over the incidents of missing persons in Karachi and said cases of missing
persons were not only confined to Balochistan now.

Senator of Balochistan National Party (BNP) Kulsoom Parveen expressed her
concern over the tragic incidents in Quetta and called on Interior Minister
Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan to take steps to stop such incidents.

PPP Senator Rehman Malik urged the government and opposition to work together to
tackle the situation in Balochistan.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1701gmt
15 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 16, 2013 Sunday

Afghan paper urges counterattack strategy against terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 621 words


Text of  article in Dari by Ali Bonyadi entitled: "Defenceless victims",
published by newspaper Eqtedar-e Melli, mouthpiece of the National Empowerment
Party on 15 June

The latest report about war victims released last week by Jan Kubis, UN special
envoy for Afghanistan in Kabul, indicated that the number of casualties and war
victims in the country has risen considerably, and instead of bringing calm to
the people. increasingly their lives are taken and they easily succumb to death
before the least dangers, for they are fully defenceless

On the basis of UN-released data, published by Reuters from January to June of
current year, 3092 civilians were killed in Afghanistan or wounded showing 30
per cent increase compared to 2012.

On the basis of these data, 21 per cent of victims are children and as always,
74 per cent of casualties are caused by the armed opponents, 9 per cent by
government forces and the serial killings by the armed opponents have increased
42 per cent compared to past years.

The data published last week, only hours before that a heavy attack was launched
by the Taleban on employees of Supreme Court that left 17 killed and 48 injured.
The victims of this attack were also civilians including the children and women.

The UN data has exceeded 3,050 and it has added to the complications and
deterioration of situation. The data released from 2007 to 2012 indicates that
15,000 people lost their live in Afghanistan.

Explosions and suicide attacks have become a common process for the people and
they have become a normal part of their life but the reality is such that the
growing physical hostilities and destruction have turned into a psychological
war of attrition.

The residents of the country who are compelled to leave their homes to meet
their daily needs and refer to the government and private organs or those coming
out for daily labour and trips to the cities and regions of the country have no
hope of returning safely to their homes and at any moment they expect a suicide
attack or explosion in which people may lose their lives.

In reality the regional intelligence war has selected Afghanistan for playing
games and our defenceless people to sustain the miseries.

In this war, certain forces are designing schemes for realizing their own aims,
and those mostly unaware and  ignorant extremists is duty bound to carry the
operations and take the life of our people implement their vicious aims and
those individuals sacrificed for those aims who are completely innocent and they
are being slaughtered like animals.

One cannot come across such merciless acts of ignorance against all accepted
humanitarian norms, against international conventions and religious rites and
humanitarian values.

It is a matter of regret that the security approach of the country is defensive
against all these acts and no use is made of counterattacks, while reports show
massive presence of the Pakistani militias among the armed opponents in certain
regions of the country and most probably these alien elements are resorting to
insecurity in most regions of the country, while no report of confrontations is
published with them so far.

The massive presence of Pakistani militias in Maidan-Wardag as the gateway door
to Kabul is no secret to anyone but to date no measures was taken to suppress
them.

Such indifference in addressing problems has made the people desperate and
express hatred towards the security forces.

So if aggressive measures are not taken against the threats to people's lives,
it is feared that the number of war victims will carryon going up and we will
witness ever further suicide attacks and insurgent activities in the country.

Source: Eqtedar-e Melli, Kabul, in Pashto 15 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 16, 2013 Sunday

Afghan daily says UN reporting terrorist attacks is not enough

LENGTH: 600 words


Text of editorial in Dari entitled "Reporting is not enough", published by
Afghan independent secular daily newspaper Hasht-e Sobh on 12 June

Jan Kubis, the UN special envoy for Afghanistan, announced that the number of
civilian casualties in Afghanistan has increased by 24 per cent in the first six
months of the current year in comparison to the same period last year.

According to Mr Kubis, the number of casualties among children has also
increased. Mr Jan Kubis has also said that most of the civilian casualties are
inflicted by terrorist attacks carried out by insurgent groups. Unfortunately,
the ordinary people of Afghanistan are the defenceless victims of the Taleban
and their allies' terrorist attacks. Yesterday, the terrorists exploded a car
full of explosives among Supreme Court employees. As a result of the attack, a
large number of civilians were killed and injured.

There is no doubt that the clear purpose of terrorists in launching these
attacks is killing people and creating intimidation and fear. The Taleban and
terrorist groups want to impose their beliefs on the people of Afghanistan by
carrying out killings and intimidations. According to a UN report, most victims
of terrorist attacks are civilians. Military bases and senior officials have now
intensified their protection arrangements using the experience of terrorist
attacks, and they have reduced their vulnerability rate, but civilians and
civilian government employees are still unprotected. They are simply targeted by
terrorist attacks and lose their lives. The terrorist attack on the Supreme
Court's staff is an indication of this issue. The insurgent groups failed to
harm civilians in their attack on the Kabul Airport, but with the attack on the
Supreme Court staff, they made a pile of dead bodies.

It is necessary for the country's military and security officials to take
serious measures to protect the lives of civilian government employees and the
general public. The government and military officials have a responsibility to
protect the lives of the Afghan people. The terrorists must not be allowed to
easily kill civilians. Perhaps, the Taleban's and other terrorist groups'
attacks will increase on government agencies after this. For this reason, it is
a need to take necessary measures to protect the government's administrative
employees.

Also, necessary measures should be adopted to protect the general public. The
Afghan people should not feel that the government and its security forces do not
make efforts to protect their lives.

Unfortunately, the UN and other international agencies have only reported about
the killing of civilians in Afghanistan. Reporting the level of terrorist
attacks and civilian killings is a necessary action, but it is not enough by any
means.

These organizations must fight the sources, factors and training centres of
terrorism. The UN could disclose the organizations and structures that train and
support terrorists in Pakistan. Regrettably, supporters of terrorists and their
support networks are not disclosed by the UN and sanctions are not imposed on
them currently. Terrorism will be weakened when its supporters and sources are
fought. Those, who justify suicide attacks and killing of people, should be
sanctioned by the international organizations. Another important thing is that
all religious bodies in Islamic countries should condemn terrorist attacks and
the killing of civilians like the attack against the Supreme Court of
Afghanistan's employees. The government should make efforts in this regard.

Source: Hasht-e Sobh, Kabul, in Dari 12 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                              June 16, 2013 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terrorists kill 24 in double attack;
Update

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 126 words


Gunmen attacked a Pakistani hospital where survivors of a student bus bombing
were being treated yesterday.

Ten people were killed by the hospital attack and 14 in the bombing of the bus,
which was carrying female students.

An extremist Sunni militant group, Laskar-e-Jhangvi, claimed they carried out
both attacks, which came hours apart in the western city of Quetta.

The hospital victims included nurses, security staff and a city official who was
visiting the bus bomb survivors.

Officials said four gunmen, who were also armed with grenades, were killed
during a siege of part of the hospital.

At least one of them blew himself up with a suicide bomb.

Dozens of people trapped inside the hospital building were freed and one of the
militants was taken prisoner.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLAST Burning bus wreckage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SML


             Copyright 2013 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Herald

                              June 16, 2013 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Panic in the sky as note sparks fears of terror attack on plane

BYLINE: By Ewan Fergus

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 887 words


PRESTWICK airport was at the centre of a major terror alert yesterday which saw
armed police surround an Egyptian plane after it made an emergency landing with
326 passengers on board.

The drama unfolded after a hand- written note was found on board the New
York-bound plane threatening to set it on fire.

After the threat was discovered, Egyptair flight 985 from Cairo touched down
under fighter escort at Prestwick Airport.

The aircraft was taken to a secluded area at the southern end of the airport,
away from the main terminal building, shortly after 2.30pm.

It was promptly surrounded by a heavy police presence, including armed officers,
but it was several hours before passengers were led in small numbers out of the
aircraft to waiting buses.

The drama began when BBC employee Nada Tafik discovered the note on board.

The journalist told BBC News: "When I went in to change my daughter about three
hours into the flight, I found a note by the sink saying 'I set this plane on
fire' with the seat number 46D written on it, so I immediately went to the crew
and told them about it.

"It was on a hand napkin written in pencil and the pencil was actually still
there so I told the crew to make sure to keep it so they can get any
fingerprints off it.

"They locked the bathroom  immediately so that no one could go into it.

"It almost looked like a child's handwriting or someone who has very sloppy
handwriting, but it was very alarming, especially these days when everyone is so
concerned about safety on flights.

"I said to one of the stewards, 'I don't know if this is a prank.' They said no,
it can't be a prank. Either someone has a very bad sense of humour or, you know,
it's very scary."

Police began disembarking passengers at about 5pm. Some of the travellers were
young children but everything went calmly.

Many passengers were issued with blankets as they made the 100-metre walk to a
fleet of waiting buses through heavy rain.

About one hundred police officers gathered around the plane and  dog units and
armed officers were at the foot of the stairs up to the aircraft.

Police Scotland confirmed that a suspicious note had been found on board, and
said all passengers were to be interviewed.

As events on the ground unfolded, Detective Superintendent Alan Crawford, said:
"The flight had 326 people on board, and as it approached UK and Scottish
airspace there was a suspicious note found. The captain and crew took action to
divert to Prestwick.

"The vast majority of passengers have now been safely removed from the plane and
I fully anticipate they will all be removed very soon along with the crew.

"There may well be different nationalities involved and that could be a
challenge for us but we have officers and interpreters to speak to everyone.

"The airport is still open and there is no threat to anyone else. The passengers
will be taken to a safe place and speak to officers.

"There was no one removed in handcuffs and no one has been detained or arrested
and we're continuing our investigation into the note that was found and its
origin and motive.

"The terrorist threat has not  been increased as a result of this incident
today.

"Police and emergency services continually train for this type of incident and
today is a demonstration of all the agencies involved and passengers are being
removed safely.

"This note, whatever narrative it contained, we have to treat seriously and
maintain the safety of passengers and crew.

"Whether it is a prank or not, this will be investigated thoroughly to establish
the circumstances.

"We could never write something off as a prank without investigating.

"The captain took the decision to divert the aircraft and it's now for police to
investigate where that note came from and to see if we can identify who put it
within the plane and what was the circumstances leading to that."

Later, a Police Scotland spokeswoman added: "All passengers and crew have now
disembarked from the aircraft.

"Officers are carrying out an extensive search of the aircraft. Passengers and
crew remain in the terminal building. Interpreters are assisting officers as
they begin to speak to passengers."

A team of five Red Cross volunteers were also drafted in to help look after
passengers disembarking.

The specially trained volunteers were called in by South Ayrshire Council under
emergency contingency procedures.

Their task was to provide emotional support to any  passengers who needed it and
to help look after their general welfare, a spokesman for the Red Cross said.

He added: "Many of our volunteers are specially trained in techniques of calming
down people caught up in traumatic situations.

"We were called in to help by the local authority under civil contingency
procedures and will remain at Prestwick Airport for as long as necessary."

Other flights into and out of Prestwick continued to operate as normal during
the incident.

A statement on the airport's  Twitter feed read: "No disruption to flights
today, all flights are operating as normal."

The A79 was closed in both  directions next to the airport between the B739
Station Road junction and the Shawfarm Road junction and reopened at about 8pm.

Last night, EgyptAir chairman Tawfiq Assi said the flight  was checked by bomb
disposal experts.

Assi added that he hoped it would continue on to New York City as soon as
possible.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nada Tafik found the note in the toilet Egyptair flight 985 was making
its way from Cairo to New York when the note was found. Once at Prestwick
Airport, passengers had to stay on board the plane for several hours before
being taken safely to waiting buses Photographs: Steve Welsh

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SH


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Journal

                              June 17, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Night of the fireball;
It was perhaps the most eye catching terrorist attack ever committed in the
North East - the IRA bombing of the Dunston gasometer. On the 20th anniversary
of the event, MIKE KELLY looks back

BYLINE: MIKE KELLY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1091 words


FOR anybody who lived in the Newcastle and Gateshead on June 9, 1993, the
chances are you would have heard the bang.

On a personal note, I was living on Barrack Road next to St James' Park then
when at around midnight there was what can best described, in a seemingly
contradictory way, as an enormous dull thud. In my house it sparked a no doubt
typical inquiry along the lines of 'what on earth was that?', although expressed
in somewhat saltier language.

It was like nothing I'd ever heard before. You sensed it was far enough away not
to put you under immediate threat, but you feared for those who lived nearer to
it.

The blast, it turned out, occurred at the Dunston gasometer on Low Teams.
Amongst those who did live nearer was my then colleague Andrew McKegney, an
investigative reporter for the Evening Chronicle, now Press Office manager at
Newcastle City Council.

He said: "At the time I was at home in Low Fell when I heard a loud bang. I
looked out of the window and saw in the distance a huge fireball that was
lighting up the night sky.

"I jumped into the car and drove straight to the Teams. It all felt very
dramatic - exciting to a young reporter. Groups of locals were gathering on the
streets, dressed in pyjamas having been woken from their beds. Police were
cordoning off the roads.

"The heat from the fire was intense. There was a whoosh of burning gas and a
strong smell of burning.

"There was a lot of excitement and a sense of disbelief at such a large fire so
close to where people were living.

"Nobody knew at the time that this was an act of terrorism which in time only
added to the sense of intrigue."

His eye witness account appeared in the Evening Chronicle later that day. He
wrote: "Hundreds of people stood in disbelief, open mouthed at the spectacle.
Many stood in their pyjamas and dressing downs - literally woken from their beds
by the noise. Others jostled with camcorders and cameras to get the best shot of
the action. least 150ft high licked up one side of the gasometer and the whoosh
of the burning gas could be clearly heard." His words captured the mixture of
reaction.s - fear, awe and fascination - felt by all the locals interviewed.
Hundreds of them had to be evacuated from their homes to the nearby Teams and
District Social Club as well as the Dunston Activity Centre and the Teams
Community Centre while the police secured the area. Meanwhile scores of Fire
Appliances were rapidly on the scene, at first having to wait until the Bomb
Disposal unit called up from Catterick in North Yorkshire decided there were no
other devices. The man who helped co-ordinate the investigation into the
incident was then Det Chief Superintendent Barry Stewart of Northumbria Police.

Now retired, he remembers the events well. "It made very eye catching footage
for the TV and photographs," he said. "There was of course a major national
investigation involving all the intelligence gathering services. We were
involved, the anti-terrorist squad and security services. "We used Special
Branch surveillance techniques and monitored people considered a threat to the
community." He described the investigation as a textbook example of how best to
use resources available in inquiries. Although retired, he is reluctant even 20
years on to give too many details, but suffice to say the name of Sean McNulty
was soon on their radar. "We identified him as a consequence of our
surveillance. We had a photograph of him buying petrol, his vehicle was
identified and when searched by forensics it contained traces of the explosive,
Semtex." McNulty, born on Tyneside in 1967 of an Irish father and English
mother, joined his father in a gang of construction workers after leaving school
at 16. He had already come to the attention of anti-terrorism experts through
his meetings with known Republican sympathisers.

That was enough to alert the counter-terrorism experts in the RUC and they
informed MI5, Scotland Yard's S013 Anti-Terrorist Branch and Special Branch, who
started surveillance on him. He was nicknamed Ice Cube. Just two months before
the Dunston blast, IRA bombers blew up a tank on the Esso site in North Shields.
Houses half a mile away shook and 600 tons of heavy oil gushed from the tank. A
second bomb was found on the site. Police said it was miracle no-one was hurt as
if the adjoining oil tanks had caught fire, it would have spelled disaster for
residents on a nearby housing estate. The device was similar to ones planted as
part of an IRA terror campaign over the period which included London and
Warrington in Cheshire. In Warrington a gasworks was blown up and another device
placed in a litter bin killed three-year-old Johnathon Ball and Tim Parry, 12,
as well as injuring 55 others. The previous May there was a From 21 firebomb
blitz at the Gateshead MetroCentre while on December 23, 1992, an IRA bomb
threat brought the city's Metro system to a standstill. Surveillance was stepped
up after the Tyneside bomb blasts.

As well as the Semtex traces, McNulty had left tiny fibres of clothing on the
wire mesh fence he crawled through to plant two bombs at the North Shields oil
terminal and a boot print. Fibres on sticky tape on the remains of one of his
home-made bombs were also found. McNulty's mother and father, Dot and Bernard,
his uncle Niall and sister Annette Walker were all arrested under the Prevention
of Terrorism Act on suspicion of withholding evidence. Dot, Bernard and Niall
spent three months behind bars. Annette Walker, charged with possession of
explosives, was in for five months. But days before the trial was due to start
at the Old Bailey, the prosecuting authorities dropped the case. They later
unsuccessfully tried to sue Northumbria Police for wrongful arrest. Sean McNulty
was jailed for 25 years at the Old Bailey in August 1994 for the attacks on the
Esso oil terminal and Dunston. He was told by trial judge Mr Justice Stephen
Mitchell on conviction: "You are English . You were an active member of the IRA.
"You were closely involved, in a period of 24 hours, in causing no less than
three explosions. "The fact that no one was killed or injured, which could so
easily have happened, and the fact that no extensive devastation was caused
helps you not one bit. I have no doubt that the actual results fell very short
of what you had hoped." McNulty was one of 78 men freed from Ulster's Maze
prison in 2000 as part of the Good Friday agreement. Mr Stewart: "We were
fortunate up here we didn't have a large amount of IRA activity but when we did,
we sorted it out."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BOMB HORROR Flames lit up the night sky after the attack on the Dunston
gasometer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJN


               Copyright 2013 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 18, 2013 Tuesday

Rights body condemns terror attacks in Pakistan's Balochistan

LENGTH: 104 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 18 Jun: Renowned senior lawyer of the Supreme Court and former
President Supreme Court Bar Association Asma Jahangir would lead a mission of
Human Rights Commission of Pakistan (HRCP) to Balochistan in the wake of
Saturday's terrorist attacks in Quetta and Ziarat. The HRCP in its statement on
Tuesday strongly condemned the attacks in Quetta and Ziarat and said that the
mission would meet senior government officials and politicians in the province.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1044gmt
18 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                             June 18, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TERROR BOMB ATTACK - THIRD MAN IN COURT;
Four missiles were allegedly thrown at mosque ; Terror bomb attack: THIRD MAN IN
COURT

BYLINE: Peter Craig

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 472 words


A THIRD man has been remanded in custody charged in connection with the
fire-bombing of a mosque in Grimsby.

Daniel Cressey, 24, is the cousin of one of the other two men who are already in
custody and due to appear at crown court.

Cressey appeared at Grimsby Magistrates' Court charged with arson with intent to
endanger the lives of others on May 26 following the incident at Grimsby Islamic
Culture Centre, in Weelsby Road, Grimsby.

Cressey, a docks driver, wept when relatives, in tears, were allowed to approach
the dock during a brief adjournment.

They spoke words of reassurance to him, telling him that they loved him and his
family were there for him.

Cressey wore a checked shirt and confirmed his details when asked by the court
clerk.

No plea was entered at the hearing yesterday and the case was adjourned to
Friday.

Prosecuting, Manisha Singh said the case will be sent to Grimsby Crown Court and
Cressey, of Manchester Square, New Holland, is due to appear there on Friday
morning.

The prosecutor described the offence as racially aggravated.

She told the court that the mosque, at the junction of Weelsby Road and Legsby
Avenue, Grimsby, had been allegedly firebombed four times - "one after the
other".

The prosecutor said the lights to the mosque.

were on at the time of the attack and there were cars in the car park. She said
people were at prayer and others, including children, were involved in
activities in the mosque. Miss Singh told the court the mosque had been targeted
just a few days earlier in a separate attack when windows were smashed.
Representing Cressey, solicitor Roy Foreman said his client was qualified as a
welder fabricator, but worked as a driver for New Holland Bulk Services on the
docks of the port. He earns around £30,000 a year, the court heard. Mr Foreman
said Cressey lived with his mother, who was in court, accompanied by Cressey's
father and stepmother. Mr Foreman applied for bail for his client, but this was
refused by District Judge Daniel Curtis, who ordered Cressey to appear at
Grimsby Crown Court on Friday. The judge said: "I can't recall in all my time
here dealing with a case of this sor t." Two Grimsby men Stuart Harness, 33, and
Gavin Humphries, 37, both of Dixon Avenue, have already appeared at crown '
Court charged with arson with intent to endanger the lives of others on May 26
at the mosque. Harness was born in New Holland and had served in the Army for 13
years, including in Iraq, Kosovo and Northern Ireland. Humphries, a
father-of-two, has served in the army but is now unemployed. Their cases have
been adjourned for a plea and casement hearing on August 30 at Grimsby Crown
Court . Tell us your news Witnessed a news story or have a story to tell? Then
tell us: ? Ring newsdesk on 01472 372236 ? Outside office hours, ring or text
our news mobile: 07780 953556

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACK: The aftermath of the attack on the mosque.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GRT


                        Copyright 2013 Grimsby Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 19, 2013 Wednesday

Five convicted of terrorism, two wounded in attack in North Caucasus

LENGTH: 194 words


A court in the southern Russian republic of Chechnya has sentenced five terror
suspects to lengthy prison terms, Regnum news agency has reported.

Chechnya's Supreme Court sentenced Salman Tepishev and Artur Sakkayev to 16
years, Yusup Tepishev to 14 years, Islam Zubayev to 13 years and Magomed
Khamzayev to nine years in prison, the report quoted the press service of the
Chechen  prosecutor's office as saying.

The five men were found guilty of being members of a rebel group and planning an
attack on a train carrying oil in  2011, the report said.

In the meantime, two people were wounded in an attack on a cafe in
Kabarda-Balkaria's Baksanskiy District, Kavkazskiy Uzel reported on 19 June.

It quoted an officer of the republic's Investigations Committee as saying that
two people exploded a bomb at the entrance to the cafe and then opened fire at
the cafe from automatic weapons at 2100 gmt on 18 June. The two wounded were
passers-by who arrived at the scene 10 minutes after the blast, the report said.

Sources: Regnum news agency, Moscow, in Russian 2029 gmt 18 Jun 13 (0029 Moscow
time 19 Jun 13); Kavkaz-uzel.ru website, Moscow, in Russian 0610 gmt 19 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 19, 2013 Wednesday

Analyst sees no link between terror attacks in Pakistan's Baloch towns

LENGTH: 1021 words


PTV World News TV in English at 1500 gmt on 17 June carries regularly scheduled
programme, "World Tonight" hosted by Waqas Majeed Khan and Gulmeenay Sethi. The
programme brings in-depth analysis by senior political leaders and prominent
political and social analysts of the burning issues faced by Pakistan.

Duration: 60 minutes

Reception: Good

Guests: Masood Sharif Khattak, former chief of intelligence bureau; Lt Gen,
retired, Talat Masood, defense analyst

Sethi begins the programme saying that today she and Khan will discuss the law
and order situation in Quetta, Balochistan. Khan says that they will also
discuss the presidential election in Iran.

Segment I

Khan plays a video report on terrorist attacks in Quetta, and district of
Ziarat, Balochistan. The report says that Ziarat Residency, where Qaid-i-Azam
Muhammad Ali Jinnah, founder of the nation, had spent the last days of his life,
was destroyed reportedly by outlawed Balochistan Liberation Army [BLA], on
Saturday, 15 June 2013. The report adds that other terrorist attacks on the same
day took place in Quetta in which 28 people got killed and dozens of others
wounded. The report further says that banned organization Lashkar-i-Jhangvi [LJ]
has claimed responsibility of the terrorist attack on female students of Sardar
Bahadur Khan Women University. The report further says that the deadly attack on
the female students' bus was reportedly perpetrated by a female suicide bomber.
The report says that militants laid siege to Bolan Medical Complex and Medical
College, where wounded female students were brought in for medial treatment, and
engaged the security forces for four hours. The report adds that at least 28
people, including deputy commissioner of Quetta, were killed in the terrorist
attacks of 15 June.

Khan invites Khattak's comments on the deadly terrorist attacks of 15 June.
Khattak says that in the country's entire history, Balochistan unfortunately,
has never been paid proper attention to. Khattak further says that the state
never did any infrastructure development in Balochistan. Khattak says that the
poor people of Balochistan do not have access to basic facilities. Khattak
further says that the Federal Government should withdraw the Army from
Balochistan and begin development work in the province.

Sethi asks Masood whether he finds any link between the incidents of Ziarat and
Quetta. Masood says: "I think they are two separate incidents; the Ziarat
incident has more to do with separatist movement of Baloch nationalists;
whereas, the murder of medical students essentially seemed to be an act of
sectarian criminality. The sectarian organization which is targeting Shiites
seems to be involved in Quetta incident." Masood says that according to his
assessment, these two incidents were independent of each other. Masood adds that
sectarian groups are being used by organizations like Al-Qa'ida to destabilize
Balochistan. Masood further says that sectarian groups have become enemy of the
state. Masood says that he agrees with Khattak that poverty and unemployment are
major causes of extremism and terrorism in Balochistan.

Khan establishes telephone link with political analyst Haris Khaliq, and invites
his comments on the destruction of Ziarat Residency. Khaliq says that Ziarat
Residency's destruction challenges the writ of the state as well as the very
concept of creation of Pakistan. Khaliq adds that destruction of Ziarat
Residency is a matter of grave concern for the entire nation. Khaliq further
says that attack on Ziarat Residency gives a message to the newly formed
government of Balochistan that Baloch separatists do not want to live with
Pakistan.

Masood says that terrorist incidents of Balochistan reflect on incompetence of
intelligence agencies and security forces.

Sethi establishes telephone link with Lt Gen, retired, Abdul Qadir Baloch,
leader of Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz [PML-N], and asks him what strategy the
PML-N Government is going to adopt to deal with the law and order challenge in
Balochistan. Baloch says that the Federal Government is going to take all the
stakeholders and political parties on board the strategy to counter the law and
order situation in Balochistan. Baloch adds that BLA and LJ have claimed
responsibility of the attacks in Ziarat and Quetta respectively.

In reply to a question, Khattak says that the Government should hold dialogue
with militants. Khattak argues that holding dialogue with nationalist militants
and sectarian organizations is effective part of counter-terrorism strategy.

Khan asks Masood whether the Government can solve the issue of Balochistan in
the near future. Masood says that this issue cannot be solved in weeks, or
months, it will take years. Masood says: "It is a complex problem; it is
sectarian problem, a national separatist movement; it is also a question of
basic needs of the people." Masood adds that tribal chiefs have been exploiting
Balochistan's poor people for years. Masood further says that state has always
neglected Balochistan and kept it deprived of resources that it deserves as its
due share in the federation. Masood says that all these grievances need to be
addressed now.

Segment II

Sethi says that now they will discuss the presidential election in Iran.

Sethi plays a video report on Iranian presidential election. The report says
that Iranian nation elected Hassan Rowhani as their president. The report adds
that Rowhani is a modern cleric and believes in reconciliatory approach towards
other countries in the region. The report further says that Rowhani's election
as president has been welcomed by the neighboring Arab countries and the Western
community. The report says that the United States has congratulated Rowhani.

Khan invites Masood's comments on Rowhani's election as president. Masood says
that by electing Rowhani, the Iranian nation has sent a message to the
international community that they want to engage with the rest of the world.
Masood adds that Iran needed a moderate leader to bring an end to its isolation.

Sethi concludes the programme.

Source: PTV News, Islamabad, in English 1500gmt 17 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      June 19, 2013 Wednesday 10:13 AM GMT

NSA claims secret surveillance programs have foiled at least 50 terror plots
since the September 11 attacks;
Head of NSA defends monitoring as legal, closely supervised and crucial to
defending Americans, adding it was not "some rogue operation"

BYLINE: John Hall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 663 words


The head of the US National Security Agency has claimed secret surveillance
programs have foiled at least 50 terror plots since the September 11 attacks.

In the first public hearing dedicated to the NSA's top-secret spying operations
since former contractor Edward Snowden exposed them, General Keith Alexander
defended the monitoring as legal, closely supervised and crucial to defending
Americans, adding it was not "some rogue operation".

Speaking to members of the House of Representatives Intelligence Committee,
General Alexander said he felt the leaks had inflicted "irreversible and
significant" damage to national security, adding "I believe it will hurt us and
our allies".

Snowden's disclosures have ignited political furore over the balance between
privacy rights and national security, but President Barack Obama and
congressional leaders in both parties have backed the programs and no
significant effort has emerged to roll them back.

Instead, during the meeting, both US officials and lawmakers spent hours
justifying phone and Internet monitoring programs as vital security tools and
criticised Snowden's decision to leak documents about them to media outlets.

While critics have blasted the surveillance as government overreach without
enough independent oversight, proposed legislative remedies discussed so far
have focused on tightening rules for contractors and making the secret court
that approves warrants for surveillance more transparent.

General Alexander told Congress: "I would much rather be here today debating
this point than trying to explain how we failed to prevent another 9/11."

He added: "In recent years these programs, together with other intelligence,
have protected the US and our allies from terrorist threats across the globe to
include helping prevent... potential terrorist events over 50 times since 9/11".

Alexander said at least 10 of those plots involved US targets or suspects in the
United States, and promised to give classified details of all of the foiled
incidents to the House and Senate intelligence committees within 24 hours.

US Representative Mike Rogers, the Republican chairman of the intelligence
panel, told reporters after the hearing: "People who are sceptical of the
program have no understanding of what the program is".

Sean Joyce, deputy FBI director, offered information on two of the cases - a
plot to bomb the New York Stock Exchange and a conspiracy to give money to a
Somali militia designated by the United States as a terrorist group.

Last week officials revealed two other such potential attacks: a 2009 plan to
bomb a Danish newspaper that published cartoons of the Prophet Mohammad and a
plot by Islamist militants to bomb the New York subway the same year.

Members of the intelligence committee said they were holding the hearing to set
the record straight about how the programs operated and their importance for
national security.

Representative Dutch Ruppersberger, the panel's top Democrat, said the leaks
"put our country and our allies in danger by giving the terrorists a really good
look at the playbook that w use to protect our country. The terrorists now know
many of our sources and methods."

Snowden, who worked at an NSA facility in Hawaii for 15 months, defended his
actions in an web chat on Monday and vowed to release more details on the extent
of the agency's access. Snowden is believed to be hiding in Hong Kong as the US
Justice Department conducts a criminal investigation.

Asked what was next for Snowden, Joyce gave a one-word response: "Justice."

Alexander said he had "significant concerns" about how a low-level contractor
like Snowden could gain access to so much information and said it was part of
the FBI's investigation. "We do have significant concerns in this area and it is
something that we need to look at," he said.

He said the NSA was considering starting a "two-person control" system in which
no one could download sensitive data without a second person there to approve
it.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 20, 2013 Thursday

Djibouti condemns terrorist attack on UN building in Mogadishu

LENGTH: 203 words


Text of report by state-owned Djibouti news agency ADI website

The Republic of Djibouti has, in a communique issued by the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and International Cooperation, condemned "with utmost firmness the
odious and cowardly terrorist attack carried out today by Islamist insurgents of
the Al-Shabab movement on the main UN complex in Mogadishu and which claimed
lives of five employees of the United Nations: three foreigners and two Somali
guards."

"The Republic of Djibouti expresses its condolences to families and friends of
the victims, the Somali government as well as to the UN secretary-general," the
same source added.

The communique added: "Under these tragic circumstances, the Republic of
Djibouti reiterates its solidarity and support to the Somali government in the
fight against terrorism."

"This attack is completely unacceptable,", said, for his part, the special
representative of the secretary-general to Somalia, Augustine Mahiga. Mr Mahiga
said in a communique that "Somalia has made great strides towards stability and
these terrorist attacks will only serve to strengthen the resolve of the Somali
people to persevere".

Source: ADI news agency website, Djibouti, in French 0000 gmt 19 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                             June 20, 2013 Thursday

Foreign Sec says independent Scotland 'less safe and more vulnerable to a
terrorist attack'

SECTION: NEWS; Scottish Interest; Conflict & Terrorism

LENGTH: 133 words


Foreign Sec William Hague says an independent Scotland would be less safe and
more vulnerable to a terrorist attack. Speaking in Edinburgh Mr Hague says Scots
would have to 'start again in world affairs' and face the cost of establishing
new diplomatic and intelligence networks. He emphasises Scotland's membership of
the world's sixth-largest economy, which is represented at the G7, G8 and G20
and has a permanent seat at the U.N. Security Council as well as an influential
and growing diplomatic network.
 The Scottish Government intends to hold a referendum of the Scottish
electorate, on the issue of independence from the United Kingdom, on 18
September 2014

Event Start Date: 2013-06-20

Event End Date: 2013-06-20

Event URL:
https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/foreign-commonwealth-office

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2013 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       June 20, 2013 Thursday 5:00 PM GMT

Scots will be more vulnerable after foreign terror attacks or natural disaster
if not part of UK, Hague warns

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 694 words



     ·    Foreign Secretary says Scots are safer as part of the United Kingdom
     ·    If voters back independence they would face huge foreign policy costs


Scots will be more vulnerable after a terror attack or a natural disaster while
overseas if the country breaks from the UK, the Foreign Secretary warned today.

In a keynote speech in Edinburgh, William Hague spelled out why Scots are safer
within the UK and warned of the huge foreign policy costs involved with
independence.

It is the first major foray into the referendum debate by Mr Hague and he warned
of an 'uncertain future' after independence.

Scotland will lose the use of all overseas embassies, which will dramatically
affect trade for Scottish firms who gain access into foreign markets through the
overseas posts.

Mr Hague also raised the fact that Scotland will lose out on Britain's
intelligence services, which will leave the country vulnerable.

Mr Hague travelled to Edinburgh to deliver the major speech billed as setting
out why the UK is stronger together, with a clear focus on  foreign policy.

The time and cost of creating such institutions will place an 'enormous burden'
on taxpayers while Scotland will 'lose the benefits' of having one of 'the most
professional Armed Forces in the world', he warned.

He added: 'Not only is Scotland safer in the UK but the UK is one of the world's
leading nations in human rights, development and trade because we stand strongly
together: a force for good in the world, with the ability to protect the
interests of our citizens at home and abroad.

'On the one hand is continued membership of the world's sixth largest economy,
represented at the G7, G8 and G20, with a permanent seat of the UN Security
Council, and an influential and growing diplomatic network that is increasingly
focused on trade and building up links with the Commonwealth and the
fastest-growing parts of the world economy.'

He went on: 'On the other is an uncertain future where Scots would have to face
the inconvenience and burden of having to start again in world affairs, with a
different passport for future generations, without that global network and
enviable diplomatic position in the world, and without automatic entry to Nato
and the EU.'

Mr Hague said that it is not his place to 'issue dark warnings' about the
consequences of a Yes vote in September next year, but the UK's role in the G8
summit in Northern Ireland is 'tangible proof' that it is at the top table for
decision-making.

As well as shaping the world, British embassies promote the whole of the UK, he
argued, adding: 'When adventure turns to misadventure for UK nationals overseas,
when there is a terrorist attack or a natural disaster, when criminals strike or
British children are forced into marriage overseas, that is when we all feel the
benefits of being able to turn to one of our missions in 267 posts in 154
countries and 12 territories worldwide.

'As part of the UK, Scotland derives, and will continue to derive, many benefits
from being part of this global diplomatic network, instead of having to rely on
inevitably fewer, smaller embassies which would take time and resources to
establish.'

The drive for independence is greeted with 'bafflement' around the world, as
outsiders 'speak in awe' of British institutions and its stable democracy.

He added: 'When outsiders look at the United Kingdom, they see one of the
world's most successful examples of stable democratic government, economic
development and diplomatic influence.

'They speak in awe of our institutions, our Civil Service and our legal systems.
They admire the richness and diversity of our culture, language, history, sport
and traditions.'

But SNP spokesman on foreign affairs Angus Robertson MP said: 'It is telling
that William Hague is in Edinburgh to lecture Scots on our place in the world,
when he surely should be occupied with events unfolding in Syria.

'Since 1945, 150 countries have become independent and countries around the
world more than understand the principle of being responsible for your own
decisions.

'Independence offers us the opportunity to make Scotland's place in the world
one that meets the aspirations of our people.'

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 21, 2013 Friday

Kenyan police hunt for terror suspect following grenade attacks

LENGTH: 363 words


Text of report by Elkana Jacob headlined "Police hunt for terror suspect in
Likoni" published by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 21 June

Police at the coast are now hunting for a man nicknamed 'Mombasa' who is
believed to be involved in series of grenade attacks in parts of Mombasa and
Likoni [coastal region].

Police are yet to make any arrests after a home-made improvise device was hurled
at Inuka police station, Likoni, on Wednesday [19 June]. Investigations are
underway for suspects who are said to be behind grenade attacks in the region.

The incident which happened at around 5:30 a.m. shocked many, especially the
officers who were from night patrols. The home hand grenade did not explode
since it fell on a soft landing.

"It's just God who guides us here, we conduct prayers on a daily basis, since
life here is terrible, neither the toilets nor our strong room are safe," said
an officer.

The morning dawn incident occurred barely a week after Russian F1 hand grenade
was hurled at a church in Likoni-Mrima injuring 17 people among them a class
four pupil at Likoni primary school.

Anti-terrorism police officers are now hunting for a well trained middle-aged
man who is believed to have hurled a hand grenade at Ng'ombeni chief's office on
16 November 2012 and injuring five other people among them Ng'ombeni Senior
chief Omar Hussein Gari. Mohamed Omar Mwakatonya alias 'Mombasa' and a father of
two, is among the several well trained Al-Shabab militiamen in the region, and
is believed to be hiding in Somalia. Police say his accomplices are five other
men, who come from Bongwe area in Diani.

"We have a list of several suspects, but their parents fear to come and record
with us since police are always on their neck, we call upon police to be
indulgent and allow both parties to be raising issues," said Muhuri [Muslims for
Human Rights] executive director Hussein Khalid.

One of the parents who sought anonymity now wants police to stop pestering since
she is willing to provide full information. "My son is living in fear and we
suspect soon he might be shot dead, he is a married man with a family."

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 21 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                        June 21, 2013 Friday 5:19 AM GMT

The American zumba dance instructor and romantic novelist who's accused of
hiding explosives in her Derry home for use in terror attack on Merseyside
police HQ

BYLINE: BY ALAN ERWIN

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 701 words


A zumba dance teacher and romantic novelist from the United States accused of
possessing a copy of the Anarchist's Cookbook has been ordered by a judge to
write a diary instead.

Mother-of-one Lesley Concannon is accused of keeping PETN high explosives in her
coal bunker, and having articles for use in terrorism.

The 32-year-old from West Virginia was arrested and charged along with her
39-year-old husband Kevin Barry Concannon following police raids on their home
at Beechwood Avenue, Derry last week.

Photographs - recovered from the couple's home during an investigation into
suspected dissident republican terrorism - appeared to show the targeting of
Merseyside Police Headquarters, the High Court heard yesterday.

Police also seized a deactivated sub-machine gun, explosives and the so-called
Anarchist's Cookbook, which contains instructions on how to make bombs.

Searches were carried out as part of ongoing investigations into the discovery
of four mortar bombs in March.

Concannon's mother and brother, who flew in from West Virginia for the hearing,
were accompanied at yesterday's bail hearing by a representative from the US
Consulate.

During a previous hearing, solicitor Joe McElhinney revealed that Concannon
first came to Northern Ireland on holiday with her father three years ago.
During her visit to the country she met her future husband.

Mr McElhinney said his client "had a romantic novel published based on her
relationship with her husband".

Opposing Lesley Concannon's bail application, a prosecution lawyer said police
believe the couple are linked to dissident republican activity.

A laptop computer taken from the home led to the discovery of photos taken
earlier this year which appeared to depict a show of strength involving three
masked men holding weapons and a gun.

It was claimed that another 22 photos appeared to show the targeting of
Merseyside Police HQ.

The judge was told Mr Concannon admitted taking the pictures while in Liverpool
with his wife last year, claiming he did so due to an interest in the building's
size.

An illegal document known as the Anarchist's Cookbook was also recovered from
the computer, according to the prosecution.

It provided detailed instructions on how to make explosives, bombs and sets out
the ingredients required.

More than 30,000 search entries were identified on the laptop, the court heard.

Requests included 'Can I take gun magazine airplane' and 'Legal to import gun
airplane UK'.

The PETN explosives were found in a coal bunker at the rear of the house.

Two days later police returned to the rented property and found a deactivated
sub-machine gun.

A set of new number plates and a coffee grinder box containing magnesium ribbon
aluminium filings were located in a spare room.

Documentation of alleged intelligence gathering on suspected drug dealers was
discovered hidden in the sleeve of a child's DVD case, the court heard.

Battery springs and tubing similar to that used in explosive projectiles was
also seized.

Concannon denied any knowledge of the explosives or machine gun, or of having
carried out the computer research.

She told police someone must have climbed over the wall and put the munitions in
the coal bunker.

Her barrister, Ivor McAteer, rejected prosecution claims that she may flee if
released, pointing out that she had returned to her home after police first
searched it.

He told the court his client works as a zumba dance instructor, taking classes
five days a week while her husband looks after their daughter.

Having obtained a degree in marketing at university in West Virginia, she moved
to Northern Ireland and got married in 2011.

Stressing her client's clear criminal record, the lawyer said: "She knows
nothing, nothing about this activity."

Mr Justice Stephens granted bail with a £25,000 cash surety. Passports for the
accused and her daughter must be surrendered.

He banned Concannon from leaving Northern Ireland and she must report to police
daily.

Concannon was also prohibited from using any computers or mobile phone.

The judge added: "She is to keep a diary of her daily activities and any
contacts she has, including dates and names, and make that diary available for
inspection by police if required to do so."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                              June 21, 2013 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Terror attack in city street sparks plea

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 126 words


POLICE are hunting a gang who attacked a man in street in Glasgow's West End.

The 37-year-old suffered an eye injury when he was punched and kicked to the
ground by four men in Dumbarton Road, near Mansfield Street.

The attack happened at around 12.15am last Sunday.

The victim had left a nearby bar when he was seriously assaulted by the gang.

It is thought the attackers may have followed their victim out of the pub.

He was taken to the Western Infirmary and later released.

Detective Constable Thomas Carey of Partick CID, appealed for information,
saying: "The incident happened just after closing time so there would have been
people about."

Anyone with information should call 0141 532 3500, the non emergency number 101,
or Crimestop- pers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        June 21, 2013 Friday 2:52 PM GMT

A million people started smoking again in the wake of 9/11, a new study has
revealed;
Scientist is advocating free nicotine replacement therapies after estimated 1.3
million former smokers picked the habit back up after the terrorist attack in
2001

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 353 words


A scientist has called for free nicotine replacement therapies to be made
available after traumatic events, following research that showed a million
former smokers started smoking again in the aftermath of 9/11.

Experts believe this sharp increase was due to the stress people experienced
during and after the tragedy, which claimed nearly 3,000 lives.

Smokers who had previously managed to kick the habit accounted for a
"significant" 2.3 per cent rise in smoking rates across the US in the wake of
the terrorist attacks on New York City and Washington DC on September 11, 2001.

Lead researcher Dr Michael Pesko at the Weill Cornell Medical College, in New
York, said the investigation "sheds light on a hidden cost of terrorism".

Scientists studied data from phone surveys carried out in every state across
America to track rates of risky behaviour such as smoking and drinking habits.
Researchers examined the responses of 1,657,985 adults and results suggested
that during the fourth quarter of 2001 and 2003, between 900,000 and 1.3 million
adult former smokers had started using tobacco again.

In contrast, there was no increase in smoking rates after the Oklahoma City
bombing in 1995 which claimed 168 lives.

Dr Pesko said: "This study provides the first unbiased estimate of the effect of
stress on smoking, and the finding that there was such a big increase in smoking
nationwide, seemingly due to one event, is extraordinary.

"I was really surprised to find that former smokers across the nation resumed
their old habit. I was expecting to see impacts just in the New York City area -
or, at most, the tri-state area."

He said one possibility would be to introduce programmes that offer free
nicotine replacement therapies immediately after an event. "Another strategy
would be to alert health professionals to do more substance abuse screening
during regular medical appointments following terrorist attacks, or any such
event that is likely to stress the nation", he added.

The research, reported in the journal Contemporary Economic Policy, suggests
that stressful events can have a negative impact on public health.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 22, 2013 Saturday

Kyrgyzstan holds military drills to avert terror attack on hydropower station

LENGTH: 207 words


Text of report headlined "Antiterror exercises held at hydroelectric power
station Toktogul" by privately-owned daily Kyrgyz newspaper Vecherniy Bishkek
website on 22 June

The command and staff exercise Kara-Kul-2013 was held involving the personnel of
the special task force Sher [Lion] of the Kyrgyz Interior Ministry's Internal
Troops in the town of Kara-Kul in [southwestern] Dzhalal-Abad Region's Toktogul
District on 21 June. The exercise was held with the help of experts of the OSCE
Centre in Bishkek and financial support of this centre.

Cooperation between police, the State National Security Committee and other
security departments and administrations of hydroelectric power stations was
practised during the exercise. The aim of exercise was to destroy illegal armed
groups in case of a hypothetical attack on strategically important facilities
guarded by the personnel of the Internal Troops.

The exercise was held in three stages. A scenario was acted out, in which
members of the special task force Sher freed a checkpoint from terrorists,
foiled an attempt to plant explosive devices under weight-bearing structures of
a hydroelectric power station's dam and released hostages.

Source: Vecherniy Bishkek, Bishkek, in Russian 22 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      June 22, 2013 Saturday 11:30 AM GMT

Woolwich - one month on after Drummer Lee Rigby's murder;
Political focus and media attention may have moved on, but Woolwich is a
community still picking up the pieces of last month's terror attack.

BYLINE: By Ben Riley-Smith

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1347 words


Earlier this week two men in fluorescent jackets combed through the flowers at
the spot where Drummer Lee Rigby was killed. Sent by the council to remove the
dying bunches, they worked methodically - the older one on hands and knees
picking out those that had turned brown, the younger placing them in the back of
a van. "We're just cleaning up out of respect", one said as the pile on the
pavement began to shrink.

Exactly a month ago today this corner of Woolwich in south-east London witnessed
a terror attack of such barbarity and bravado that it left a nation reeling.
Around 2.20pm on May 22 Drummer Rigby was hit by a swerving car as he made his
way home to the Royal Artillery Barracks. The two drivers then hacked the
soldier to death and, according to reports, attempted a beheading before being
bought down in a brief fight with police.

A single image dominated the next day's front pages. A man covered in blood
gesticulated with one hand while a machete dangled from the other. "We must
fight them as they fight us. An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth," he said.
"You people will never be safe". Terrorism had returned to the streets of
London.

A month on, the flood of tributes that appeared at the corner of John Wilson
Street and Artillery Place after the attack has begun to recede. Messages
written in ink and cellotaped to electricity boxes have been washed away by
rain. Football shirts and St George's Crosses pinned to railings still hang, but
many have turned yellow or been contorted by the wind. The mound of flowers has
thinned considerably.

So too has the media attention and political discourse moved on. It's hard to
recall that just a few weeks ago the country was locked in an anguished state of
self analysis as messages of condemnation and support flooded in from abroad.
Then Westminster went on recess and the spotlight of news headed elsewhere. Yet
in Woolwich, a community is still trying to pick up the pieces.

"The initial shock is gone, but there is still some apprehension about what's
coming next," says Reverend Rodrigo da Silva, a minister at Woolwich Central
Baptist Church.

"On the Sunday following the attack you could sense the atmosphere was kind of
heavy. People wouldn't sing as they normally sing, people couldn't concentrate
in the same way they normally do. It was like their minds were somewhere else."

The church sits a few hundred meters from where Drummer Rigby was killed. Last
weekend it held a multi-faith service commemorating his life - one of a number
of such services put on local locally since the attack, including at Woolwich
mosque. Rev da Silva says the community is still in shock at what happened.

"People have an element of not feeling safe," he says. "In the past when we did
events for young people we would have the church door open. But now we lock it.
We wait for the knock at the door and we have codes and then we open. It has to
do with safety."

Police recorded a spike in racial tensions locally after the attack. Some 23
racial incidents around Greenwich were reported in the fortnight after the
murder - more than double the average - in what the Metropolitan Police called a
"marked increase". Nine people have been charged with a variety of
racially-aggravated offences including common assault.

Rev da Silva's church recently had to cancel a meeting over the feared impact of
an EDL march. Some teenagers have been barred by parents from returning home
late and told not to travel alone to certain places, the Reverend says. Things
are improving day by day, he adds, but "it's not business as usual".

Elsewhere there are similar signs that normality has not yet resumed. Queen
Victoria Supermarket is a local convenience store that was clearly visible in
images of the attack which went viral. Drummer Rigby's body lay just a few
meters from its front door. It was shut for two days when the street was put
under police lockdown. Now open again, customers are staying away.

"It was not good those first few days," says Ali Jan from behind the counter.
"Milk went off, bread went off, there were extra papers. Over one or two weeks
people just weren't coming.

"It's still quiet. People are scared. After the attack regular customers have
gone. From 9.30pm, 10pm there is no one about. People use to come in here up to
11 o'clock but now they don't."

A few hundred meters up the road is the entrance to the Royal Artillery
Barracks, and another collection of tributes. Much was made of the advice
reportedly given to soldiers not to wear uniforms in public immediately after
the attack - a message swiftly reversed by military spokesmen. Today there seems
to be little reticence about appearing in full kit. Young soldiers walk the
streets in berets and full khaki; older ones in polished boots carry batons.

Those approached were reluctant to talk. When asked about guidance on uniforms
at the barracks an MoD spokesman said: "We have a duty of care to our staff all
the time, so they are always being told to look out for their personal safety.
But it's very much business as usual."

The same is true of the soldiers' drinking habits, if a local barman is to be
believed. For a week after the killing the pub opposite the entrance to the
barracks, the Kings Arms, was empty of the usual squadies. But they've now
started to trickle back for the odd evening pint - though never in uniform.

Solidarity with the military has defined the country's reaction. Help for Heroes
- the charity whose T-shirt Drummer Rigby was wearing when he was murdered - was
overwhelmed by requests. They switched their 9-5 warehouse operation to a
24-hour schedule and opened phone lines on weekends in an effort to meet the
surge in demand. Their website temporarily crashed and was soon sold out of
almost every piece of merchandise.

Woolwich's response has tried to epitomise a similar solidarity. Within days
local leaders of all faiths gathered to denounce the killing and pledge unity.
Despite the increase in racial incidents no attacks on local mosques have been
reported to police - a marked contrast to some other parts of the country.

Yet the desire to return to normality should not be confused with a wish to
forget, according to local MP Nick Raynsford. He says constituents are still
approaching him about the attack and asking what is going to be done.

"There is a need to ensure that the focus just isn't allowed to go away and
people then ignore or forget what happened," he says. "We need not just to
ensure justice is done... but there's also got to be this thorough analysis of
some of the factors behind the incident."

He adds: "These are big issues about what we do to tackle the radicalisation of
elements in the community and the growth of extremism. It's important that real
energy I sensed was around immediately after the killing of Lee isn't lost."

The cogs of justice certainly seem to be whirring. The two men accused of
murdering Drummer Rigby - Michael Adebolajo, 28, and Michael Adebowale, 22 -
have already made court appearances. The Metropolitan Police are analysing some
352 emails received after a public request for pictures and video, which turned
up 20 minutes of raw footage.

Whether the political will exists to seriously interrogate the causes of the
attack is less certain. Any prospect of a root-and-branch analysis of the source
of extremism in Britain appears to have faded. The most tangible political
response, a reignited debate over the so-called Snooper's Charter, has largely
stalled.

A month on, Mr Raynsford worries that the political class will move on too
quickly from what happened on that corner of John Wilson Street and Artillery
Place. It is "too soon to say" if Parliament's will to properly address the
issue has weakened, he says, but he has his fears.

"It will need very strong support from the top to ensure that we really do learn
the lessons that need to be learnt and don't just simply hope that this will all
go away," Mr Raynsford says. "Because it won't go away. These are very
fundamental problems... It is much wider than Woolwich."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 24, 2013 Monday

Israeli forces hold drill simulating "massive" terrorist attack

LENGTH: 486 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 24 June

[Report by Ya'aqov Lappin: "IDF Holds Drill Simulating Jihadist Attack"]

Jerusalem, 24 June 2013: The IDF [Israeli Defence Forces] together with the Shin
Bet, Israel Police and Magen David Adom held a surprise drill on Sunday [23
June] simulating a massive terrorist attack perpetrated by global jihadi
elements, involving multiple incidents and dozens of civilian casualties.

The drill began at 5 a.m. and ended towards 10 p.m. on Sunday. The simulated
terror attacks were concentrated in three centres, with each centre representing
a cluster of attacks. "We practised things we think can happen, in very
difficult circumstances," the source said.

The unannounced exercise, which was sprung by the IDF's Operations Branch, was
based on the scenario of terrorists infiltrating the country from a neighbouring
state and targeting crowded areas such as hotels and a dining area in a moshav.

A senior security source cited the crumbling Syrian state to the north, where
radical elements were increasingly active, and Egypt's shaky grip on the Sinai
Peninsula, which is also home to jihadi elements, as factors that led to the
decision to hold the exercise. "We understand that global jihad forces are
organizing themselves in these areas," he said.

Terrorist incidents in the world, such as the deadly attack on Algeria's natural
gas facility in January, also played a role in planning the exercise. "We want
to challenge ourselves, our perception, and our conduct," the source said. "The
exercise began quietly. Most units were surprised, including the IDF General
Staff, which is the supporting component," the source said.

The drill tested how long it would take for the IDF General Staff to snap into
action, and how effectively elite counter-terrorism units, such as Sayeret
Matkal and the Border Police's Counter-terrorism Unit, could mobilize to
affected areas and engage terrorists. "We built the scenario in such a way that
no one unit could solve the problem alone. We forced all of them to cooperate,
to remove ego-driven obstacles which are healthy but are sometimes damaging. The
units had to cooperate and create a professional dialogue to solve the problem,"
the source said.

The source said inter-organizational cooperation between the IDF, police and
Magen David Adom paramedics is good. The Israel Air Force also took part. "These
were extreme incidents that did not end with the release of hostages. The enemy
had to be engaged and killed, sometimes in crowded areas. The incidents required
medical responses. We created chains of evacuation for the injured and brought
extras to play various roles in the drill."

IDF Chief of Staff Lt-Gen Beni Gantz and his deputy, Maj-Gen Gadi Eisenkot, took
part in critical decisions during the exercise.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 24 Jun 13 p 2

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 24, 2013 Monday

Niger army chief urges vigilant to overcome possible terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 232 words


Text of report by Niger's state-run Tele Sahel on 20 June

[Presenter] At the end of his visit in Diffa, Maj Gel Seyni Garba, the chief of
defence staff, hosted a press briefing at the foot of Mt Termit. Our Reporters
Abdourahamane Boukari and Abdourahame Mazou covered the visit.

[Garba] I would like first to recall that this working visit to the Zone No 5,
that is, in the region of Diffa has led us successively to the military
detachment units in Diffa, Bosso, Nguigmi, Ngurti, and the Agadem Oil Deposit.
At each stop, we had a fruitful exchange with the entire personnel of the forces
of defence and security. We informed the personnel about the development of the
events that is the terrorist attacks of Agadez on 23 May. We gave many details
to help them understand the methods used by the terrorists. We called on the
forces of defence and security for more vigilance to overcome any possible
terrorist attack.

We also discussed the concrete measures to be taken to reinforce the security of
our military camps and also the sites that are of economic importance. Finally,
we seized the opportunity to transmit to the personnel of the forces of defence
and security the encouragement and support of the president of the Republic,
supreme chief of the army, in the daily tasks of the forces in securing our
territory and the population.

Source: Tele Sahel, Niamey, in French 1930 gmt 20 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              June 24, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

YES VOTE COULD BE DISASTROUS;
Terrorism and cyber attacks risk warning

BYLINE: DEAN HERBERT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 294 words


SCOTS will be more vulnerable to terrorism and cyber criminals if the country
breaks away from the UK, a former senior military commander has warned.

Major-General Andrew Mackay, who led British forces in Afghanistan and later
commanded the army in Scotland, said that independence would bring "very real
risks".

A new report has suggested Scotland would be left with a limited defence force
which would struggle to recruit and retain personnel after independence, while
jobs and economic growth would suffer due to the smaller force.

Independent think tank the Scotland Institute also warned that a separate
Scotland would face difficulties in setting up its own intelligence services,
leaving it vulnerable to terrorists and computer hackers.

The report's panel of experts, chaired by Maj-Gen Mackay, is comprised of senior
armed forces personnel, defence academics, former secretaries of defence and
senior officials from Nato, the MOD and the EU.

Maj-Gen Mackay - who resigned from the army in 2009 after 27 years' service -
said in the report's foreword: "I cannot see how slicing up a competent and well
established military will aid either the United Kingdom or an " independent
Scotland."

Dr Azeem Ibraham, the executive chair of the Scotland Institute, added: "An
independent Scotland would find it difficult to maintain an air force of any
consequence and would possess a truncated navy stripped of submarine forces. It
would also be at some disadvantage in the gathering of intelligence and in
meeting cyber security challenges."

" But a Scottish Government spokesman said: "An independent Scotland will
havefirst-classconventional "forces which will play a full role in defending the
country and cooperating with international partners."

scotnews@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONCERNED: Mackay

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 24, 2013 Monday 10:07 AM GMT

Walsall Aisha mosque attack: Counter-terror police drafted in to examine
home-made bomb that police have called a 'hate crime';
Remains of the bomb were handled by different people before committee rang
police on suspicious item

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 769 words


Counter-terror police have been called in to assist with a major hate crime
investigation after a small home-made bomb that had exploded near a mosque was
discovered on Saturday night.

Around 150 people were evacuated from their homes, and 80 had to stay in
temporary accommodation in the Caldmore area of Walsall on Saturday night to
allow bomb disposal experts to make the device safe.

West Midlands Police confirmed the blast heard by residents on Friday "appeared
to be consistent" with the device exploding. The remains of the device were not
discovered until the following evening, when a member of the public found the
remains. No one was injured and the device caused minimal damage.

The device was discovered in an alleyway adjoining the Aisha Mosque and Islamic
Centre in Rutter Street on Saturday by a local man who took it home and showed
it to his wife.

Later, the mosque's imam also took the remains home before anyone realised their
significance. Eventually members of the committee and local residents gathered
at the mosque and decided to call police about the item, which reportedly
contained a battery.

Assistant Chief Constable Sharon Rowe said on Sunday evening: "The force is
taking this attack against the mosque very seriously and we have a major
investigation under way.

"To that end, I have called in support from all over the force, including the
West Midlands Counter Terrorism Unit, which has a number of experts supporting
the inquiry.

"Specialist investigators have been working all day and continue to ensure that
we maximise every opportunity from the crime scene."

She added: "At this stage we are keeping an open mind on a motive, but have
recorded it as a hate crime."

She described a hate crime as: "Any criminal act committed against a person or
property that is motivated by the offender's hatred of people because of their
gender, race, religion, disability or sexual orientation."

In a bid to reassure the community of their safety Walsall police have been
patrolling the area, despite believing that the planting of the device was an
isolated incident.

Zia Ul-Haq, a committee member and spokesman for the mosque, told BBC WM
committee members contacted police at about 10.15pm because the device looked
suspicious.

"It was found by one of our worshippers who after midday prayer was going home,
and he had a look and it looked suspicious, so he picked it up and took it home.

"He showed it his wife and his wife said, 'Well, it looks like something
suspicious so you should take it to the mosque'. So he brought it to the mosque
but unfortunately there was nobody responsible in the mosque so he took it back
home.

"Then he brought it back in the evening and then our imam had a look at it, and
he took it home because nobody thought it was that serious.

"I said it looks suspicious and we decided to call the police. As soon as the
police came they said we should not have handled it."

Mr Ul-Haq thanked officers and the local council for the measures they had taken
to support the community in the aftermath of the discovery.

He said: "They have taken this very seriously and they have supported us
wholeheartedly and we are very grateful to the police and the local authority.

"We are not suspecting anybody, we are leaving it in the good hands of the
police. We have beautiful relationships with the local community and we've never
had any trouble at all at our mosque."

Mr Ul-Haq told the BBC that the mosque had been a part of the community for more
than 40 years and held strong relations with communities of all faiths, often
holding open days for non-Muslims.

"We never ever thought there was going to be a problem and people are still
finding it hard that somebody could have targeted us."

Bomb disposal experts from the Royal Logistic Corps attended the scene to ensure
the device was safe and forensic teams spent several hours conducting a detailed
search for evidence.

About 80 people evacuated from the area as a precautionary measure overnight
were given shelter by Walsall Council, while 70 residents stayed with friends or
family.

Councillor Zahid Ali, portfolio holder for public health and protection, said
the community was standing together "shoulder to shoulder" in support of the
police.

"Walsall has really shown its mettle in coming together and responding with calm
determination."

The incident comes after a number of recent events at mosques following the
murder of Drummer Lee Rigby in Woolwich, London. Last week two men were charged
in relation to an alleged arson at a mosque in Gloucester, and an Islamic
cultural centre in Grimsby was hit by petrol bombs last month.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        June 24, 2013 Monday 7:26 AM GMT

Walsall mosque attack: Counter-terror police drafted in

BYLINE: Matthew Cooper

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 776 words


Counter-terror police have been drafted in to help with a major hate crime
investigation after a small home-made bomb exploded near a mosque.

Around 150 people were evacuated from their homes in the Caldmore area of
Walsall on Saturday night while bomb disposal experts made the device safe.

West Midlands Police said a loud bang heard by residents late on Friday
"appeared to be consistent" with the device exploding. No one was injured and it
caused minimal damage.

The remains of the device were found in an alleyway adjoining the Aisha Mosque
and Islamic Centre in Rutter Street on Saturday by a local man who took them
home and showed them to his wife.

The mosque's imam also took them home later before anyone realised their
significance.

Assistant Chief Constable Sharon Rowe said last night: "The force is taking this
attack against the mosque very seriously and we have a major investigation under
way.

"To that end, I have called in support from all over the force, including the
West Midlands Counter Terrorism Unit, which has a number of experts supporting
the inquiry.

"Specialist investigators have been working all day and continue to ensure that
we maximise every opportunity from the crime scene."

She added: "At this stage we are keeping an open mind on a motive, but have
recorded it as a hate crime. A hate crime is any criminal act committed against
a person or property that is motivated by the offender's hatred of people
because of their gender, race, religion, disability or sexual orientation."

Police have stepped up patrols in Walsall to reassure the community, despite
believing the planting of the device was an isolated incident.

Zia Ul-Haq, a committee member and spokesman for the mosque, told BBC WM the
device was handed in on Saturday evening, and committee members called police at
about 10.15pm because it looked suspicious.

He said: "The package was found along the front boundary wall, on the corner of
the building. It was found by one of our worshippers who after midday prayer was
going home, and he had a look and it looked suspicious, so he picked it up and
took it home.

"He showed it his wife and his wife said, 'Well, it looks like something
suspicious so you should take it to the mosque'. So he brought it to the mosque
but unfortunately there was nobody responsible in the mosque so he took it back
home.

"Then he brought it back in the evening and then our imam had a look at it, and
he took it home because nobody thought it was that serious."

Eventually, several people, including members of the committee, got together at
the mosque and decided to call police after assessing the item, which was
reported to contain a battery.

"I said it looks suspicious and we decided to call the police. As soon as the
police came they said we should not have handled it."

Mr Ul-Haq thanked the police and the local council for their support following
the discovery.

He said: "They have taken this very seriously and they have supported us
wholeheartedly and we are very grateful to the police and the local authority.

"We are not suspecting anybody, we are leaving it in the good hands of the
police. We have beautiful relationships with the local community and we've never
had any trouble at all at our mosque."

Mr Ul-Haq told the BBC that the mosque had been in existence for more than 40
years and had very good relations with communities of all faiths, holding open
days for non-Muslims.

"We never ever thought there was going to be a problem and people are still
finding it hard that somebody could have targeted us."

Bomb disposal experts from the Royal Logistic Corps attended the scene to ensure
the device was safe and forensic teams spent several hours conducting a detailed
search for evidence.

About 80 people evacuated from the area as a precautionary measure overnight
were given shelter by Walsall Council, while 70 residents stayed with friends or
family.

Councillor Zahid Ali, portfolio holder for public health and protection, said:
"We stand shoulder to shoulder together as a community in support of the police.

"We've worked very hard with the community and shown that we were there for them
when the evacuated residents needed shelter.

"Walsall has really shown its mettle in coming together and responding with calm
determination."

It comes after a number of recent incidents at mosques following the murder of
Drummer Lee Rigby in Woolwich, London.

Last week two men were charged in relation to an alleged arson at a mosque in
Gloucester, and an Islamic cultural centre in Grimsby was hit by petrol bombs
last month.

Mosques in Braintree, Essex, and Gillingham, Kent, have also been targeted.

PA

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                              June 24, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

YES VOTE COULD BE DISASTROUS;
Terrorism and cyber attacks risk warning

BYLINE: DEAN HERBERT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 294 words


SCOTS will be more vulnerable to terrorism and cyber criminals if the country
breaks away from the UK, a former senior military commander has warned.

Major-General Andrew Mackay, who led British forces in Afghanistan and later
commanded the army in Scotland, said that independence would bring "very real
risks".

A new report has suggested Scotland would be left with a limited defence force
which would struggle to recruit and retain personnel after independence, while
jobs and economic growth would suffer due to the smaller force.

Independent think tank the Scotland Institute also warned that a separate
Scotland would face difficulties in setting up its own intelligence services,
leaving it vulnerable to terrorists and computer hackers.

The report's panel of experts, chaired by Maj-Gen Mackay, is comprised of senior
armed forces personnel, defence academics, former secretaries of defence and
senior officials from Nato, the MOD and the EU.

Maj-Gen Mackay - who resigned from the army in 2009 after 27 years' service -
said in the report's foreword: "I cannot see how slicing up a competent and well
established military will aid either the United Kingdom or an " independent
Scotland."

Dr Azeem Ibraham, the executive chair of the Scotland Institute, added: "An
independent Scotland would find it difficult to maintain an air force of any
consequence and would possess a truncated navy stripped of submarine forces. It
would also be at some disadvantage in the gathering of intelligence and in
meeting cyber security challenges."

" But a Scottish Government spokesman said: "An independent Scotland will
havefirst-classconventional "forces which will play a full role in defending the
country and cooperating with international partners."

scotnews@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONCERNED: Mackay

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             June 25, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Petrofac to restart work after terror attacks

BYLINE: Mark Leftly

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 168 words


PETROFAC is set to restart work on a natural gas contract in southern Algeria
after terrorist attacks in January which prompted a slide in the oil giant's
shares.

Staff were evacuated from the In Salah gas complex - where Petrofac was
providing construction and engineering services - after more than 70 people were
killed by Islamist militants at another gas facility. BP and Statoil were also
working at In Salah.

Work had expected to resume after only a few weeks, but is now expected in the
second half of the year. Today's trading statement said that, as a result, any
profit booked from the project in 2013 will be heavily weighted towards the
second half of Petrofac's annual figures.

Although 2013 is now expected to be a year of only "modest net profit growth",
according to chief executive Ayman Asfari, he added that the group is on course
to meet its target of doubling earnings by 2015.

Shares in the company, which prior to the terrorist attack were comfortably
above 1700p, edged down 3p to 1231p.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                             June 25, 2013 Tuesday

Statoil launches new security unit after terrorist attack at In Amenas gas plant

SECTION: RICE; Middle East and Africa

LENGTH: 283 words



HIGHLIGHT: Norwegian energy company Statoil has launched a security and
emergency preparedness unit in response to the January attack by Islamist
militants on its In Amenas gas plant in Algeria.


Norwegian energy company Statoil has launched a security and emergency
preparedness unit in response to the January attack by Islamist militants on its
In Amenas gas plant in Algeria.

The new Statoil head of security is Helga Nes, a long-time official of the
company. She said: "Since the attack on In Amenas we have deepened our dialogue
with various governments, including the Norwegian and the Algerian, to increase
our understanding of the threats and risks we are facing and our ability to
mitigate the risks"

Development and Production International (DPI), a security firm employed by the
company, has doubled its staff since 2012.

DPI security head Asbjørn Ringstad said: "Understanding and mitigating security
risks is at the core of this challenge, and we will revamp Statoil's security
organisation."

Statoil is reviewing the security arrangements at the In Amenas plant along with
its other partners, which include BP and Algeria-based Sonatrach.

The company is also conducting an internal investigation into security at the
facility and is expected to submit a report to the Statoil board of directors in
mid-September, to be made public subsequently.

The In Amenas gas project includes the development of four primary gas fields in
the Illizi basin in south-eastern Algeria and the associated gas processing
facility.

In January, around 30 heavily armed gunmen attacked the In Amenas gas plant.
Approximately 48 workers and 29 militants were killed in the ensuing battle.

The plant started partial production in February, and produces nine billion
cubic metres of natural gas and 50,000 barrels of condensate a year.

Image: The In Amenas gas project is jointly operated by Sonatrach, BP and
Statoil.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 25, 2013 Tuesday 3:14 PM GMT

Students 'planned terror attack using remote control planes';
Police have carried out raids in Germany and Belgium targeting a suspected
Islamist plot by aeronautics students at the University of Stuttgart to use
remotely controlled planes for a terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Jeevan Vasagar Berlin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 385 words


German                      authorities searched nine homes and properties in
the Stuttgart area, in the area around Munich, as well as in Saxony and Belgium.

A spokesman for Germany's Attorney General confirmed to the Daily Telegraph that
the suspected plot involved the use of model planes fitted with explosives.

The Attorney General's office said in a statement: "The searches in the
Stuttgart area and in Belgium were directed against two men of Tunisian origin
who are suspected of collecting information and items for the commission of
radical Islamist bombings with remote-controlled model aeroplanes."

Two of the suspected plotters were students in the aeronautics department at the
University of Stuttgart, who were developing systems for using GPS to guide
pilotless aircraft, according to the German public broadcaster SWR.

Police raids also targeted the homes of four of the men's acquaintances, who are
being investigated on suspicion of financing militant jihad. One acquaintance of
the suspected plotters is under investigation for money laundering. No arrests
have been made, authorities said.

The statement read: "The aim of today's search is to obtain evidence of
potential attack plans and preparations, and to gain insight into the means of
financing radical Islamist terrorism."

The raids involving about 90 police officers were carried out by the German
equivalent of SWAT teams, as police feared the suspects might be armed.

In 2011, the FBI foiled a plot to attack the Pentagon and US Capitol with
remote-controlled model planes carrying explosives. Rezwan Ferdaus, a US
citizen, obtained a 7ft model plane that could fly at up to 100mph. He pleaded
guilty and was sentenced to 17 years in prison, last year.

Germany has seen only one deadly attack by an Islamist radical; the shooting of
two US servicemen at Frankfurt airport in 2011. The attacker, who was born in
Kosovo and grew up in Germany, told the court he was radicalized by watching
jihadist propaganda online.

The footage he saw, allegedly a US atrocity in Iraq, was in fact a clip from a
Brian de Palma movie, Redacted.

There have been several attempted attacks in Germany, which stayed out of the
Iraq war but is the third largest contributor to international forces in
Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 26, 2013 Wednesday

Terror attacks in Afghanistan planned in neighbouring countries - pundit

LENGTH: 564 words


Text of report by privately-owned Afghan Ariana TV on 25 June

[Presenter] Following a group attack by insurgents at the Presidential Palace
some Afghan observers believe that US and NATO should change the war direction
and stress that with today's attack on the Presidential Palace, the insurgents
proved that they are able to target strategic locations in the country. They
once again blame the Pakistani ISI [Inter-Service Intelligence] for coordinating
such attacks. My colleague with more details:

[Correspondent] The appearance of insurgents at the gate of the Presidential
Palace raised a lot of concerns among Afghan officials. According to some Afghan
observers, the presence of insurgents in strategic locations shows weakness and
vulnerability of Afghan intelligence and security forces. However, they still
stress that there are strong secret hands behind such attack as the Taleban are
not able to plan such complicated attacks on their own.

The observers believe that now is the time to change the geographical combat
against terrorism and the international community should apply pressure on the
Pakistani spy agency, ISI. Some Afghan military experts believe that spy
agencies in the region, especially Pakistan's ISI, are the masterminds behind
these sorts of attacks.

[Nurolhaq Olumi, military affairs analyst, captioned] As it is an intelligence
war and there are political goals behind attacks, these types of actions are
planned by neighbouring countries, such as Pakistan's ISI. They are aware of the
all specific details and try to attack areas where the Afghan security forces
can be exposed as weak or lacking qualifications to defend against different
tactics.

[Correspondent] Afghan security organizations also say such attacks are planned
on Pakistani soil and asked the international community to change the
geographical combat zone. Some other military experts believe that the access of
insurgents to such strategic locations is questionable and it shows that the
insurgents have infiltrated Afghan intelligence and security bodies.

[Amrollah Aman, military observer, captioned] It raises questions about the
state of security when insurgents get through one of Kabul's strategic sectors
that is under constant and serious inspections of the Afghan security forces.
Insurgents passed through a long distance to get to the [Presidential] Palace.
They did not fly like birds, but the Afghan government has failed to find out
their centres in Kabul city, how they were equipped and where they spend their
nights.

[Correspondent] In a press release, the US embassy in Kabul strongly condemned
the insurgents' attack at the gate of the Afghan Presidential Palace and stated
the attack was a failed insurgency activity. The embassy's press release,
quoting the US ambassador, says that all the Taleban attackers were killed and
they did not achieve any of their apparent goals.

The statement said that the attack indicated once again that the Taleban will
wildly attack to achieve their objectives.

The insurgents' armed attack coincided with the arrival of the US special envoy
to Afghanistan and Pakistan, James Dobbins, in the capital of the country after
the Taleban's political office was opened in Qatar. Tensions over the opening of
the political office prevented him from meeting Taleban representatives in
Qatar.

Source: Ariana TV, Kabul, in Dari 1530 gmt 25 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            June 26, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Pair 'planned model plane terror attack'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 56 words


TWO students are being investigated over an alleged plot to carry out terror
attacks with model aeroplanes. The pair, said to be of Tunisian origin, planned
'to commit Islamic extremist explosive attacks with remote-controlled model
aeroplanes', German prosecutors said. Both men are said to be aeronautics
students at Stuttgart university.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 27, 2013 Thursday

International body condemns terror attack on Pakistani judge

LENGTH: 255 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 27 June

Islamabad: The International Commission of Jurists (ICJ) has condemned the
attempted assassination of Justice Baqar Maqbool, a judge of the Sindh High
Court (SHC).

"This is the second bombing targeting the Pakistani judiciary in six months.

The ICJ is extremely concerned that these attacks signal a renewed challenge to
the ability of the Pakistani judiciary to function as an independent
institution," said Sheila Varadan, ICJ's South Asia Legal Advisor, in a
statement issued to media on Thursday.

According to local media sources, TTP, an armed group operating in northwestern
Pakistan, has claimed responsibility for the bombing, admitting that it
specifically targeted Justice Maqbool for his "anti-shariah" judgements and
'ruling against the Mujahideen'.

"Any physical attack on a judge constitutes a serious threat to the rule of law
and the independence of the judiciary.

If the TTP or another armed group is deliberately targeting judges, it could
constitute a crime under international law," said Varadan.

Under international standards, including the United Nations Basic Principles on
the Independence of Judges, Pakistan is responsible for taking measures to
ensure the protection of members of the judiciary from acts of violence or other
threats to their safety. In March 2013, the ICJ also condemned the suicide
bombing inside a Peshawar courthouse killing four people and injuring 30 others.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 27 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             June 27, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I feared machete thug would kill our babies...;
¦ Mum-to-be tells of terror over park attack ¦ Robber stole phone and just £2 in
change

BYLINE: DAN THOMPSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 449 words


AMUM-TO-BE has spoken of her terror after a cowardly robber held a machete to
her stomach before ransacking her toddler's pram. Joanna Milan-Kuziora, 26, had
been pushing her two-yearold daughter Jasmine around Oldham's Alexandra Park
with another young mum and her baby when two thugs struck. Petrified Joanna, who
is 16-weeks pregnant with her second child, begged the attackers not to harm
their children as one held a huge blade to her bump. The robbers made off with
their mobile phones - which contained priceless baby photos - and just £2 in
change from Joanna's stroller. The attack is one of 18 that has happened near
Oldham town centre in the last TEN days. Joanna, who lives near Alexandra Park,
said: "We were terrified, so scared.

We didn't know what they were going to do.

We were saying 'please take everything, just don't hurt the babies'. "At first I
couldn't believe it and it has made me so angry. How could they attack two
defenceless, innocent girls with their babies? They could see I was pregnant but
held a machete to my stomach.

"They must be really desperate to attack a pregnant woman with a toddler. If
they need money, why don't they go out and get a job?" Polish-born Joanna, a
stay-athome mum who moved to Oldham from the US around eight months ago with
husband Rafal, described how hundreds of pictures and videos of her daughter
Jasmine were on her stolen phone - a HTC Amaze. She and Rafal, a 30-year-old
cake factory worker, fear for their safety following the broad daylight attack
and want to move out of the town. Joanna said: "I'm afraid to go outside with my
baby, even for a walk or to go to the shop.

I don't feel safe any more.

I really like that park, I walk in it every day, but now I'm scared to go
there." She described the attackers as white, wearing hoodies and sweatpants.

One was around 16 to 20 and the other no older than 30 - but both had covered
their faces with something stockings or tights.

The shocking raid took place near Furness Avenue at 5pm on Friday. Officers
believe two different gangs may be responsible for the 18 attacks and GMP has
launched Operation Manila in response.

As part of the operation, two boys have been arrested on suspicion of robbery
and bailed pending further enquiries. Inspector Jim Troisi said: "We would like
to reassure our communities that we are doing everything we can to bring those
responsible to justice. "While some of these robberies may be linked, and indeed
there may be more than one group carrying out offences, we are committed to
delivering justice for each person who has recently been a victim of robbery in
or around Oldham."

'They must be really desperate to attack a pregnant woman with a toddler'

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCARED Joanna with her little girl Jasmine, two, who was with her
during the attack
TERRIFIED Pregnant Joanna and husband Rafal say they now fear for their safety
Pictures: Simon Pendrigh

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2013 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 28, 2013 Friday

Terror attack against police prevented in Russia's North Caucasus

LENGTH: 88 words


Text of report by privately-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 28 June: A terror attack against police officers has been prevented in
Magas [the capital of the republic of Ingushetia in Russia's North Caucasus],
Interfax was told at the National Antiterrorist Committee [NAK] information
centre.

"A terror attack against police officers has been prevented in the capital of
Ingushetia," a NAK spokesman said.

NAK promised to provide further details later.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1122 gmt 28 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 28, 2013 Friday 11:41 AM GMT

Death toll at 35 after ethnic clashes in western China;
Foreign Ministry spokeswoman: 'This is a terrorist attack, there's no question
about that'

BYLINE: Associated Press

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 440 words


The death toll from clashes in western China has risen to 35, reports say.

The violence included knife attacks on police in the Xinjiang region which has
seen frequent clashes between China's Muslim minority Uighurs and the ethnic Han
majority.

Initial reports said 27 people were killed in a remote town, with state-run
media saying that knife-wielding attackers targeted police stations, a
government building and a construction site - all symbols of Han authority.

The new toll included some of the severely injured dying in the hospital. It
also included 11 attackers shot dead in Lukqun township, the Xinhua News agency
said. Two police officers were among the 24 people they killed.

"This is a terrorist attack, there's no question about that," Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Hua Chunying said. "As to who masterminded it, local people are
still investigating."

State news reports did not identify the ethnicity of the attackers, nor explain
what may have caused the conflict in the Turkic-speaking region, where Uighurs
have complained of suppression and discrimination by Han people. The report also
said police captured four injured attackers.

The violence was one of the bloodiest incidents since unrest in the region's
capital city of Urumqi killed nearly 200 in 2009.

Photos released in state media show scorched police cars and government
buildings and victims lying on the ground - presumably dead.

It was impossible to independently confirm the state-run media accounts. The
Global Times said police set up many checkpoints along the 30km (19-mile) road
to Lukqun and dissuaded reporters from travelling there due to safety concerns.
It said heavy security has been necessary because some suspects remained on the
run.

Xinjiang is home to a large population of minority Muslim Uighurs in a region
that borders Central Asia, Afghanistan and Pakistan and has been the scene of
numerous violent acts in recent years, including the riots in the capital four
years ago.

Critics have attributed the violence, including Wednesday's deadly clashes, to
Beijing's oppressive and discriminatory ethnicity policies. Many Uighurs
complain that Beijing imposes tight restrictions on their religious and cultural
life, barring children and women from attending mosques and discouraging fasting
during the Muslim month of Ramadan, which starts this year in early July.

The Chinese government says all ethnic groups are treated equally and that the
violence is terrorism with no connection to religion or ethnicity. It points to
billions of dollars it has invested in modernising Xinjiang, a strategically
vital region with significant oil and gas deposits.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      June 29, 2013 Saturday 11:45 AM GMT

'Terrorists' attack police station in restive Chinese province;
More than one hundred knife-wielding "terrorists" were repelled after attacking
a police station in the volatile Chinese province of Xinjiang, state media
claimed on Saturday.

BYLINE: By Tom Phillips Shanghai

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 410 words


The Global Times newspaper said casualties were "still being counted" after
rioters on motorcycles launched a noon assault on the building in the city of
Hotan.

The incident came just two days after at least 35 people were killed during
bloody clashes in Turpan, a city in the same province in China's extreme west.

State news agency Xinhua said eleven rioters were gunned down by police and
another four were captured after armed groups targeted government installations
and a building site on Wednesday morning, torching police cars and killing 24
people.

Almost half of Xinjiang's 22 million-strong population is composed of Uighurs, a
largely Muslim, Turkic-speaking group who often oppose the growing influx of Han
Chinese immigrants.

Uighur rights groups criticise Beijing's alleged attempts to restrict their
religious and cultural freedoms and argue that the Uighurs have largely been
excluded from the region's economic boom.

Xinjiang has been the scene of repeated inter-ethnic clashes, including
confrontations between Han Chinese and Uighurs in July 2009 that left nearly 200
dead.

In a lengthy editorial on Saturday, the state-run Global Times blamed this
week's violence on "am absolute minority in Xinjiang" and said the incidents
represented "a rare situation".

"There is zero possibility that Xinjiang's overall social stability will be
overturned," the newspaper argued. "China, including Xinjiang, is experiencing
unprecedented prosperity and we must have full confidence that we can solve the
problems we are confronted with."

On Friday, the Uighur American Association disputed the government's account of
Wednesday's violence calling for "an independent verification of events".

In a statement, its president Alim Seytoff questioned the government's claims
that "terrorists" were behind the violence and blamed the troubles on the
"devastating effects of [Beijing's] failing ethnic policies." A spokesperson for
the US State Department addressed the violence on Thursday saying Washington was
"deeply concerned by the ongoing reports of discrimination and restrictions
against Uighurs and Muslims in China." US criticism was rejected by Beijing. A
spokesperson for the Chinese Foreign Ministry said Beijing was "unsatisfied"
with the US' comments.

"Western public opinion, standing upon Western interest, may make use of the
incidents to try to fan the flames of trouble. We should ignore those noises,"
said the Global Times editorial on Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 30, 2013 Sunday

China warns of strong crackdown on "terrorist attacks" in Xinjiang

LENGTH: 472 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Urumqi, 29 June: A Chinese leader said Saturday [29 June] that the country will
strike hard on violent terrorist attacks according to law and maintain social
stability in Xinjiang.

Yu Zhengsheng, member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the
Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, made the remarks at a meeting
in Urumqi, capital of northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.

Xinjiang was hit by violent terrorist attacks in the past few days.

Yu, leading a work team, arrived in Urumqi early Saturday, after President Xi
Jinping presided over a meeting of the Standing Committee of the Political
Bureau of the CPC Central Committee on Friday to arrange the work of
safeguarding social stability and the interests of the people in Xinjiang.

China will impose severe punishment on those taking part in violent crimes, Yu
said at Saturday's meeting, which was attended by officials from across
Xinjiang.

"We will step up actions to crack down upon terrorist groups and extremist
organizations and track the wanted," he said.

Xinjiang has achieved sound economic development in recent years, but
separatists in and outside the country have been escalating their efforts and
those deep-seated problems challenging Xinjiang's social stability have not been
completely solved, Yu said.

A few criminals have continuously masterminded and conducted violent terrorist
attacks, causing serious losses to the lives and properties of the public, he
said, slamming the attacks as "key threats to national unity and social
stability in Xinjiang."

Safety precautions must be taken, especially for key areas and institutions, he
said, calling for efforts to mobilize the public and CPC members.

Yu called on local people to stay calm and keep vigilance.

Yu also said authoritative information on the attacks should be released in a
timely manner, and efforts must be taken to promote China's ethnic and religious
policies as well as laws and regulations.

Also at the meeting, Meng Jianzhu, secretary of the Commission for Political and
Legal Affairs of the CPC Central Committee, made detailed anti-terror
arrangements in Xinjiang.

Meng said that the recent violent terrorist attacks have revealed the anti-human
nature of the terrorists, who are the common enemy of all ethnic groups.

Law enforcement agencies should severely crack down on violent terrorist
activities, with precautionary and preemptive measures, to guarantee social
stability in Xinjiang, Meng said.

The meeting was also attended by Zhang Chunxian, secretary of the CPC's Xinjiang
committee, Public Security Minister Guo Shengkun and Wang Zhengwei, minister in
charge of state ethnic affairs commission.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1531gmt 29 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       June 30, 2013 Sunday 12:09 AM GMT

Feds fear for another independent terrorist attack during the upcoming Fourth of
July holiday

BYLINE: ASHLEY COLLMAN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 570 words



     ·    An FBI and Department of Homeland Security notice calls for U.S. law
          enforcement officials to look out for other lone-ranger terrorists
     ·    The Tsarnaev brothers originally planned their attack for the Fourth
          of July holiday
     ·    Firework explosives were found in the bombs used at the Boston
          Marathon


Law enforcement officials across the U.S. were warned Friday to be on the
lookout for a possible terrorist attack during the upcoming Fourth of July
holiday.

The notice was issued in a 'Roll Call Release' by the FBI and Department of
Homeland Security, and obtained by ABC News.

While officials said there weren't any credible threats tied to the holiday as
of Friday night, the recent Boston Marathon bombings have caused concern about
other independent extremist 'knuckleheads' like the Tsarnaev brothers.

In fact, the Tsarnaev brothers had planned their attack on Boston for the Fourth
of July, but executed it a few months early during the Boston Marathon once
their bombs were ready. Investigators found firework explosive powder in the
bomb remains.

The Tsarnaev brothers didn't seem to have a strong connection to foreign
terrorist cells. So avoiding another lone-ranger attack is 'of paramount
concern' for the national holiday.

The national significance of the holiday combined with the 'crowd density' it
creates, means there is a  greater 'opportunity to perpetuate a mass casualty
attack.'

According to one law enforcement official, 'out of an abundance of caution' the
New York Field Office of the FBI is sending two bomb-technicians up to Boston
for the holiday to help out.

The abundance of fireworks on sale for the holiday is worrisome since firework
explosive powders can be adapted for use in homemade bombs, similar to the
pressure-cooker bomb used at the Boston Marathon in April.

'Recent incidents in the Homeland demonstrate that consumer fireworks - widely
used during the upcoming [July 4] celebrations - can be misused by criminals and
violent extremists to construct improvised explosive devices,' the notice said.

Local law enforcement officials were instructed to pay close attention during
the holiday and take notice of anyone asking questions 'that go beyond mere
curiosity about the potential damage fireworks could cause.'

The Tsarnaev's learned how to make their explosive from a how-to article
published in the first issue of Al Qaeda's 'Inspire' magazine.

Two months before the attack, Tamerlan Tsarnaev drove to Seabrook, New Hampshire
where be bought 48 mortars containing about eight pounds of low explosive powder
from Phantom Fireworks.

Investigators found emptied firework shells in DzhokarTsarnaev's dorm room and
in one of the suspect's backpack.

The Boston bombings was the largest terrorist attack on U.S. soil since 9/11.
The explosion at the finish line of the Boston Marathon killed three people, and
injured over 260.

The only surviving suspect in the attack, 19-year-old Dzhokar Tsarnaev was
indicted Thursday on 30 charges in relation to the attack. Seventeen of the
charges carry the death penalty.

And they're not the only home-grown terrorists who have gone the DIY route,
using fireworks to make their bombs.

Faisal Shahzad, the man behind the failed 2010 bombing of Times Square in New
York, bought 150 small fireworks which he used in an attempt to blow up a Nissan
Pathfinder.

Firework components were also found in Colorado theater shooting suspect James
Holmes' apartment.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Cambridge Evening News

                              July 1, 2013 Monday

Terror at dog death attack triggers warnings in Cambridge park

BYLINE: RAYMOND BROWN

LENGTH: 287  words


Terrified parents have put up 'dangerous dog' notices in a Cambridge park after
a dog killed another hound and attacked other pets.

The warnings have been posted in Alexandra Gardens park in Carlyle Road which
has a playground and popular with families.

Daniel Zeichner, Labour's parliamentary candidate for Cambridge who lives in
nearby Victoria Road, is concerned about the dog.

And Cambridgeshire police are investigating a dog attack on Tuesday at the park.

Mr Zeichner said: "We need tougher laws to tackle dangerous dogs, and councils
need powers to deal with aggressive behaviour before it turns into a vicious
attack.

"The Government should have introduced a dog control notice in the Queen's
Speech which would mean owners could be served with an instruction to muzzle or
be required to keep the dog on a lead at all times.

"Labour also argued that the Government should abandon plans to abolish the dog
control order which enables councils to designate areas like parks and play
areas dog-free zones or demand dogs are kept on leads in these areas.

"This is a specific dog-related control power and it should remain so."

He added: "We have seen some well-publicised tragic cases nationally where young
children have suffered horribly from dog attacks. Parents are understandably
worried and need reassurance that the appropriate authorities have powers to act
before anything happens - waiting until someone has been hurt isn't good
enough."

A police spokesman said: "We are investigating a report of a dog being attacked
by another dog in the park off Alexandra Gardens, Cambridge, on Tuesday, June
25.

"Inquiries are ongoing to identify the owner of the dog involved to establish
the exact circumstances of the incident."

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CambridgeNews


                    Copyright 2013 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Scotland On Sunday

                              July 1, 2013 Monday

China sends in troops after terrorist gang attack'

BYLINE: Christopher Bodeen In Beijing

LENGTH: 575  words


Chinese paramilitary troops have begun round-the-clock patrols in the country's
huge north-western region of Xinjiang following a series of bloody clashes that
have killed at least 56 people over the last several months.

The deadliest unrest in years was carried out by a gang engaged in "religious
extremist activities", state media reported, saying the group had been busy
buying weapons and raising money.

Beijing initially called the most serious incident in which 35 people were
killed in a "terrorist attack". Details of the incident only emerged in the past
few days, even though it occurred last week.

Xinjiang is home to the mainly Muslim Uighur people who speak a Turkic language.
Many deeply resent what they see as Chinese government restrictions on their
culture, language and religion. Beijing accuses ­extremists of separatism.

The order for the patrols by the People's Armed Police was issued by the ruling
Communist Party's top law enforcement official, Meng Jianzhu, at an emergency
meeting late on Saturday in Xinjiang's regional capital, Urumqi. The action came
just days ahead of the 5 July anniversary of a 2009 riot between Xinjiang's
native Uighur people and Han Chinese migrants in the city that left nearly 200
people dead.

Troops must patrol in all-weather conditions, "raise their visibility, maintain
a deterrent threat and strengthen the public's sense of security," Mr Meng said,
according to a notice posted to the public security ministry's website.

The animosity between the majority Han Chinese and the Uighurs poses a major
challenge for China's Communist Party leaders. President Xi Jinping, who took
office in March, has called for the unity of all ethnic groups in China.

According to reports on the government website of Xinjiang and the state news
agency Xinhua, last week's attacks occurred after police arrested a member of
the gang.

The next day the same gang went on a rampage in the remote township of Lukqun,
about 120 miles south-east of Xinjiang's capital of Urumqi.

The group attacked a police station, shops and a construction site. A total of
24 civilians, both Uighur and Han Chinese, and police were killed, along with 11
gang members.

"Since February, Ahmatniyaz Siddiq and others were engaged in religious
extremist activities, listening to violent terrorist recordings," said the
reports. "They formed a violent terrorist group of 17 members, and since
mid-June were raising money, and buying knives, gasoline and other tools for
crime."

"Terrorist organisations should be aware that the Chinese nation and its people
are determined to safeguard the country's territorial integrity and national
unity against all enemies," Xinhua said in a separate commentary yesterday. "Any
attempt to sabotage will eventually fail."

Two days after the deadly attack, more than a hundred people, riding motorbikes
and wielding knives, attacked a police station in Xinjiang.

Bordering Central Asia, Afghanistan and Pakistan, Xinjiang has long been home to
a simmering rebellion against Chinese rule among parts of the Uighur population
opposed to large-scale Han Chinese migration and angered by strict communist
restrictions on Islam and their Turkic language and cultural institutions.

However, recent incidents point to a growing level of violence and the
apparently growing influence of radical Islam, in spite of a massive security
presence spread across the vast region, which is almost six times the size of
the UK.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWTS thescotsman


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 2, 2013 Tuesday

Romanian Foreign Ministry strongly condemns terrorist attack in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 190 words


Text of report by Romanian government news agency Agerpres

[Unattributed report: "Romanian Foreign Ministry Strongly Condemns Kabul
Terrorist Attack"]

Bucharest, July 2 /Agerpres/ -- The Romanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MAE)
strongly condemns the tragic truck bomb attack Tuesday morning [2 July] at 'Camp
Pinnacle' in Afghanistan, that killed one Romanian and injured another.

Such deplorable acts of violence have no justification and must be fought at all
costs, reads a MAE release to Agerpres.

The Foreign Ministry extends condolences to the grieving family and expresses
deep regret at the loss.

'In its capacity as an EU and NATO member, Romania stays firmly committed to
supporting the efforts of the Afghan government to eradicate all forms of
terrorism and ensure the transition to stability and a functional rule of law,'
the release underscores.

Tuesday's attack was perpetrated by suicide bombers against a foreign logistics
center used to supply ISAF, the NATO-led security mission in Afghanistan. At
least seven were killed in the attack, the Afghan police said.

Source: Agerpres news agency, Bucharest, in English 1047gmt 02 Jul 13

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 2, 2013 Tuesday

Syrian citizens in Hasaka stage protest against "terrorist groups" attacks

LENGTH: 81 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Massive protest in al-Shadadi city in Hasaka against terrorists' crimes"]

Residents of Al-Shadadi city in Hasaka countryside staged on Tuesday [2 July] a
protest condemning the criminal acts of the armed terrorist groups and their
attacks on the public and private properties.

The protesters called on the armed terrorist groups to get out of the city.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 2 Jul 13

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 3, 2013 Wednesday

Turkey: Iraqi Turkmen Front seeks own security force against terror attacks

LENGTH: 403 words


Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also
known as Anatolia)

[Unattributed report: "Turkmens insist on 'security force' in Iraq - A spokesman
for Iraq-Turkmen Front (ITF) in Irbil stated that they insisted on establishing
a security force that would protect Turkmens from terror attacks"]

IRBIL [Arbil] (AA) -Aydin Maruf Selim, a spokesman for Iraq-Turkmen Front in
Irbil, has said they wanted a new security force which would consist of Turkmens
to protect them from terror attacks.

Making evaluations to AA correspondent about suicide bomb attacks targeting
Turkmens in Tuzhurmatu and Kirkuk, Selim expressed attacks against Turkmens
increased with the killing of Deputy Chairman of ITF Ali Hashim Muhtaroglu and
Selahaddin's Deputy Governor Ahmet Koca.

-Attacks won't demoralize us, says Selim

"We witnessed a big death toll as a result of a treacherous assault on June 25,
2013. We harshly condemn the attacks aiming at Turkmens. Whatever they do, we
keep on our struggle. The attacks won't demoralize us," said Selim, stating
Turkmens were targeted by some dark groups which were supported by interior and
external forces.

Stating Iraqi government also evaluated the foundation of a security force which
would consist of 750 people two weeks ago, Selim said, "This decision is a
rightful action and we assess it as positive, but this force should be
independent from individuals. If it is managed under dominance of Prime Minister
Nouri al-Maliki or his supporter groups, we will be worried with this force.
Then it can cause conflicts among Turkmens. Tuzhurmatu is one of key districts
and takes place in a dubious region. That's why, we ask the security force to be
independent and founded under Iraq-Turkmen Front. We cannot approve anyone's
claiming right over this force after its foundation."

-"We wish creation of a force to protect Turkmen region"

Saying the force to be founded in the region would not be a military force,
Selim added they insisted on foundation of a security force in Iraqi army which
would protect Turkmens. "But this force would not be same as groups of
Peshmargas or Sadr. To illustrate, a Sahra force was founded in the region and
the constitution allowed it. We have communications and there are positive
developments, too. I believe in foundation of this force."

Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency, Ankara, in English 1051
gmt 2 Jul 13

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 3, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Pilots under attack from laser terror in city skies;
SHOCKING FIGURES SHOW MORE THAN 220 LASER ; ATTACKS IN REGION WITH AIRLINERS AND
POLICE HELICOPTERS TARGETED ; EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: NICK McCARTHY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1094 words


THUGS are using powerful lasers to target airliners, police helicopters and even
military transporters bringing wounded troops into Birmingham.

There have been more than 220 separate laser attacks reported in the West
Midlands in the last two years, according to alarming new figures from the Civil
Aviation Authority (CAA).

The worrying statistics, obtained under the Freedom of Information Act, revealed
one attack on the police helicopter last year came from the open window of a
mosque in Small Heath.

Laser beams were also spotted coming from bedroom windows, hotels, moving cars
and even an unnamed Midland sports stadium as planes came into land in
Birmingham.

Chillingly, there have also been three separate attacks against military
aircraft bringing in injured troops for treatment in Birmingham. The first was
on May 4, 2011, when a plane was targeted by a green laser as it made its final
approach to the airport.

The second attack was on September 15 that year when another military aircraft
was flying at 4,000 feet, west of the M6 near Cannock.

Two weeks later there was a third incident when a plane flying at 2,000ft was
targeted by a laser as it came in to land.

In some of the 220 incidents pilots have been targeted by multiple lasers with
the cockpit lit up with red, blue and green lights.

In one attack in July 2011 the police helicopter was targeted by FOUR different
beams as it hovered one mile south-west of the airport.

Nearly 700 incidents involving aircraft in or above the West Midlands were
reported to the Civil Aviation Authority, including bird strikes, emergency
landings, a bomb threat and the closure of the airfield because of a flying
kite.

There was also a missed landing because a dog was loose on the taxiways - and
the Air Ambulance hospitalised a bystander who was injured by flying pallets
when it took off.

But nearly a third of all incidents relate to laser attacks.

The powerful beams can temporarily blind pilots or illuminate the whole cockpit,
leaving flight crews struggling to land the aircraft.

The British Airline Pilots Association (Balpa) has warned that targeting lasers
on aircraft is like playing "Russian roulette" with the lives of passengers and
has called for prison sentences for those responsible.

Cases of laser attacks across the UK have jumped from just three in 2004 to more
than 1,500 last year.

General secretary of Balpa Jim McAuslan said: "We want regulations over the sale
of high powered lasers strengthened, more prosecutions and action taken through
trading standards.

"Lasers can be bought easily and cheaply. The Government should convene a
cross-agency summit to discuss how to tackle this problem."

One pilot told Balpa about notes he made after having a laser shone on his
aircraft: "Flash blindness is a risk, but distraction and disruption at a
critical point under intense stress is a threat to life itself.

"A laser attack could be the straw that breaks the camel's back one day - don't
underestimate it."

We s t Midlands Police said attacks on its helicopter has fallen in recent
months.

Martin Knowles, from air operations, said: "We are pleased to see that the
number of laser pen strikes on the force's helicopter continues to fall.

"Whenever this topic is reported we do see a spike in offences and would advise
people that we take laser pen attacks extremely seriously and will always
investigate these fully.

"The aircraft has sophisticated technology that can accurately pinpoint anyone
shining a laser pen into the sky, so offenders can expect police patrols to be
upon them very quickly."

Since 2010 shining a laser or light at an aircraft in flight has been a specific
criminal offence.

A spokesman for the Civil Aviation Authority said: "The aviation industry and
the police are doing everything possible to combat the problem and we strongly
urge anyone who sees a laser being shone in the night sky near an airport to
contact the police immediately."

In October 2011, a teenager was jailed for six months for dazzling a police
helicopter with a laser pen. Wayne Junior French, 19, of Hollymoor Way, Rubery,
was caught by police who were investigating reports of a commercial jet being
zapped by a green laser pen.

Paul John, defending, said French had learning difficulties and was "immature".

OUR SAY: PAGE 14 Dates of near disaster ¦ 01/01/2011. Around 100 Chinese
lanterns recov-ered from the runway after blowing on to the airfield in New
Year's Eve celebrations.

21/01/2011. Plane targeted three times by a blue/violet laser while in descent
at 5,000ft.

20/06/2011. Airplane suffers birdstrike at 200ft on approach. Multiple strikes
to nose, windshield and landing gear.

20/08/2011. Brake components found to be miss-ing after aircraft had parked up.
Parts later located on taxiway.

01/10/2012. Oily fumes in the flight deck causing cabin and flight crew illness.

12/08/2012. Police helicopter on operational duties over Small Heath,
illuminated by a laser from an open window of a mosque. Ground forces sent to
location.

700 INCIDENTS REPORTED TO THE CAA NEARLY 700 incidents involving aircraft were
reported to the CAA in 2011 and 2012 under the Mandatory Occurrence Reporting
scheme.

A CAA spokesman said each report it receives is reviewed and, where appropriate,
there is further investigation and action taken.

The attempt to shoot at West Midland's Police's helicopter during the summer
riots in 2011 was listed in the incidents.

The armed ambush saw a gang of thugs shoot at officers on the ground and at the
police helicopter, which was hovering at 1,800ft above The Bartons Arms in
Newtown.

There was also an incident in November 2011 where the Air Ambulance hospitalised
a bystander when it blew wooden pallets into their legs with its downwash.

A report into the incident recommended extra vigilance to identify potential
hazards at ad hoc landing sites.

Other incidents listed included a missed approach by an aircraft at Birmingham
Airport because a dog was loose on the taxiway in January 2012.

Departures were also cancelled and arrivals were held back from landing when a
kite was seen flying a mile west of the airport in October 2012. In another
incident a giant searchlight was reported missing from the police helicopter in
January 2012. Investigators assume it 'fell off' somewhere in the Midlands
during flight.

Meanwhile, police launched an investigation in September 2011 when a written
bomb threat was discovered inside a company flight magazine during embarkation
at Birmingham.

'"A laser attack could be the straw that breaks the camel's back one day - don't
underestimate it.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A C-17 Globemaster commonly seen at Birmingham Airport carrying wounded
soldiers. Below, the police helicopter.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2013 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                             July 3, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Business is flying for Dewar;
The Insiders ; After having to deal with a terrorist attack early on in his
career in aviation, Gordon Dewar quickly realised the sector may be many things,
but dull it certainly was not

BYLINE: Victoria Masterson

SECTION: EDINBURGH NOW;FEATURES; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 1252 words


GORDON Dewar's introduction to airports was something of a baptism of fire.

The chief executive of Edinburgh Airport has worked in virtually every area of
transport you could imagine - but nothing prepared him for his first job in
aviation as managing director of Glasgow Airport.

"I joined just before the terrorist attack of 2007," he recalls of the day when
a burning Jeep was crashed into the front of the airport's main terminal
building.

"Once we realised that no one had been badly hurt, it was actually quite
exciting. It was a brilliant team-building opportunity to get the team aligned
and working better together.

"As well as airport operations, it involved the police, fire service and
airlines. It was a real experience for everyone in the team, although not one
you'd wish for.

"Everyone handled it superbly and the whole airport was open again in less than
24 hours, with no long-term impact on the business as a result."

Returning to business as usual, a key highlight for Dewar was launching the
£40million Skyhub project to expand and improve airport facilities, the biggest
single capital investment at Glasgow Airport since the opening of the
international terminal in 1994.

"The ultimate aim was to reduce the amount of time passengers were waiting in
security lines and, in the process, deliver a better customer experience for our
growing number of passengers," Dewar says.

Airport owner BAA then invited Dewar to lead a similar flagship project at
Edinburgh Airport, where he was appointed managing director in 2008.

With just over nine million passengers last year, Edinburgh is Scotland's
busiest airport and the sixth busiest in the UK.

"We pushed the front of the airport out towards the runway with a huge new
departure lounge," Dewar explains.

"It was mostly retail but also an expanded security hall, with generally better
facilities for passengers airside. The £40million funding all came from
additional commercial income from the retail side."

But after cutting the ribbon on the new development in 2010, Dewar was poached
to the Middle East to become the chief executive of Bahrain Airport.

"They asked me if I fancied coming to do a similar job in Bahrain," he recalls.

IN NEWS. "I'd never worked overseas before so that was attractive. Bahrain
Airport was also just coming out of government ownership and being privatised,
so that seemed like too good an opportunity to miss."

However, his move coincided with the dawn of the Arab Spring, and when Dewar was
invited back as managing director of Edinburgh Airport by its new owners, Global
Intrastructure Partners (GIP), he accepted.

An investment fund that buys infrastructure from gas pipelines to ports, GIP
already ran Gatwick and London City airports and paid £807.2million to buy
Edinburgh from BAA in June last year after they were forced to sell off a
Scottish airport by the Competition Commission.

"There's a huge freedom with GIP to do what's right for Edinburgh rather than
being constrained by group thinking and decisionmaking in the way that BAA were
as a group of airports," Dewar explains.

"On top of that you have phenomenal skill sets that you can tap into through
GIP's London or New York offices. A big part of their team came out of General
Electric, which led the whole continuous improvement agenda.

"So they know how to improve process efficiency and the quality of customer
service while taking cost out and boosting profitability."

Dewar has worked in transport his whole career. After a BSc in Geography at the
London School of Economics, he joined the transport consultancy arm of civil
engineer Halcrow, where he spent 10 years advising clients ranging from London
Underground to the Scottish Executive.

He then spent six years at Aberdeen-based FirstGroup, where he helped introduce
the UK's first commercial smart card for buses and free bus passes for
pensioners.

Dewar also helped prepare FirstGroup's successful bid for the ScotRail
franchise, where he became commercial director.

Understanding the link between commercial success and operations has been key to
his career progression.

"It doesn't matter how good your fares are, if you don't run punctually in
public transport, you're not going to make any money," he says.

Dewar's three watchwords at Edinburgh Airport are growth, efficiency and
service. Route development is a key focus and since GIP's acquisition a year
ago, the airport has announced 18 new destinations, including Istanbul from
Turkish Airlines, Toronto from Air Canada and Cancun from Thomson Holidays.

More than 40 airlines now fly from Edinburgh to around 130 destinations.

"We want to get more routes so people have more choice where they fly to and
from," Dewar explains.

"We're also investing in technology that improves customer service and are
automating some parts of the security process. A huge number of our passengers
are regular travellers who want to get through the airport and get to their
destination as quickly as possible, so that's important to them."

Dewar is also reviewing the airport's masterplan, which predicts passenger
numbers will grow from nine million to 12.3 million by 2020, and to 20.5 million
by 2040.

"We know we don't need a second main runway for about 30 years and that we've
got space to the east, in particular, to expand.

"We're just reviewing exactly how and when we do these things to make sure we're
always a step ahead of demand."

Meantime passenger growth is more positive than it has been for several years,
with the busiest May on record - up 7.5 per cent on last year - following a one
per cent decline over a tough winter.

"There's a little bit more bounce in the general economy," Dewar adds.

"Domestic traffic growth is a really strong barometer of economic growth and for
the first time ever we've had 2.7 per cent growth here, which is a great sign of
background economic growth.

"We've also seen 11.8 per cent growth in intenational traffic, thanks in part to
all the new deals we've done with the likes of easyJet, Ryanair, KLM and Turkish
Airlines."

In the last few weeks, Edinburgh Airport has also added to its trophy cabinet
with two high profile awards - Scottish Airport of the Year at the Scottish
Transport Awards and, for the third year running, Best European Airport (5-10
million passengers) at the ACI EUROPE Best Airport Awards.

Edinburgh Airport has contributed more than £260million to the economy over the
last 10 years and employs around 5,000 people, 450 of them by Edinburgh Airport
Limited.

"The variety you have and the fact that, although we're the owner and operator,
we're responsible for less than 10 per cent of people who work here, means that
nothing can be done well unless there's collaboration and partnership,"
concludes Dewar.

"That requires trust, communication and common ground so we're sharing the same
themes of growth, efficiency and service.

"It's also hugely inspiring to look at our impact on the wider economy and the
jobs we create. It's just a fascinating place to work."

FACTS Edinburgh Airport by numbers.

Operating hours: 24 hours a day, 365 days a year Opened: 1977 Runways: Two (one
is contingency) Terminals: One Airlines: More than 40 Destinations: Around 130
Passengers per year: Nine million Average passengers a day: 24,600 Employees:
5,000 (450 are Edinburgh Airport Limited employees) Air cargo per year: 10,200
tonnes ARE YOU BUILDING A BUSINESS IN EDINBURGH? EMAIL US AT NEWS. Edinburgh Now
.

CO.UK

It doesn't matter how good your fares are, if you don't run punctually you're
not going to make money

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Future Dewar is reviewing Edinburgh Airport's masterplan
Upwards Dewar is delighted with recent growth in passenger numbers at Edinburgh
Airport

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2013 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 3, 2013 Wednesday 8:36 PM GMT

Top Chechen rebel makes rare internet appearance to encourage terror attacks at
Winter Olympics in 2014

BYLINE: ANNA EDWARDS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 635 words



     ·    Doku Umarov urged his fighters to 'do their utmost to derail' the
          games, which he described as 'satanic dances on the bones of our
          ancestors'
     ·    Black Sea resort Sochi is hosting the Winter Games in February, a pet
          project for President Vladimir Putin
     ·    Umarov last year urged his fighters to avoid civilian targets because
          Russians in Moscow were taking to the streets to protest against Putin
     ·    But today in an internet appeal he reversed his command, and urged
          militants to inflict terror on the games


A powerful Chechen rebel has demanded militants to 'derail' the upcoming
Olympics in the Black Sea resort of Sochi, which he described as 'satanic
dances'.

Sochi is hosting the Winter Games in February, a pet project for President
Vladimir Putin, who is determined for them to be a success.

Doku Umarov, a widely known Chechen rebel leader, urged his fighters to 'do
their utmost to derail' the games, which he described as 'satanic dances on the
bones of our ancestors'.

He called on Islamist militants in Russia's North Caucasus to inflict terror on
the games, reversing his previous appeal not to target civilians in the region.

'We have the obligation to use all means to prevent this,' he said in a video
posted on a rebel website today.

Umarov last year urged his fighters to avoid hitting civilian targets because
Russians in Moscow were taking to the streets en masse to protest against Putin.

Security experts have said the Islamic insurgency raging across the North
Caucasus mountains that tower over Sochi is a daunting threat to the games -
although rebels have not attacked Sochi so far.

Dagestan, which lies about 500 kilometers (300 miles) east of Sochi, has become
the center of the insurgency that spread across the North Caucasus region after
two separatist wars in the 1990s in neighboring Chechnya.

Rebels seeking to carve out a caliphate, or Islamic state, have targeted police
and other officials in near-daily shootings and bombings.

Umarov is believed to be their most influential leader.

Tamerlan Tsarnaev, the elder of the two ethnic Chechen brothers who are accused
of staging the Boston Marathon bombings, spent six months last year in Dagestan.

The overall bill for the games stands at $51 billion, making them by far the
most expensive Olympics in history.

Jean-Claude Killy, head of the IOC coordination commission for Sochi, said such
threats are to be expected.

'We get threats before every Olympics. This cannot be taken lightly,' he warned.

'I think the Russians are well equipped to face the challenge.'

The Sochi 2014 Organizing Committee said in an emailed comment that ensuring
security at the games is 'the responsibility of the state' and will be its
priority.

'We are confident that the games will be safe and comfortable for all as
guaranteed by the Russian state,' the committee said.

Russia's National Anti-Terrorism Committee said in a statement on Wednesday that
it is working to eliminate threats at all international sporting events in the
country including the Olympics.

Officials said that they aim 'to identify and avert various threats, including
those of terrorism.'

Press officers for the Interior Ministry in Russia's southern district, which
includes the North Caucasus, declined to comment.

An officer of the Interior Ministry's special task force in the North Caucasus,
who asked not to be identified because he was not allowed to comment publicly,
said that Umarov's statement could prompt Russians to step up their efforts to
comb the mountainous areas where the rebel could be hiding.

The United States declared Umarov's group a terrorist organization in 2011 and
offered up to $5 million for information leading to his capture.

Umarov's group is blamed for bombing a Moscow airport in January 2011, two
subway stations in 2010 and a Russian train in 2009.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             July 4, 2013 Thursday

Melon farmers suffer after terrorist attack

SECTION: INDUSTRIES

LENGTH: 409 words


LUKQUN - Memet Dawut is worried about the ripe honeydew melons he sells at a
fruit stand in Lukqun Township in northwest China's  Uygur autonomous region.

The 64-year-old fruit vendor has seen his sales slow following a recent
terrorist attack that occurred in the township.

On June 26, terrorists attacked local stores, police stations, government
buildings and a  site, killing 24 people.

"After the attack, the number of visrs dropped sharply and fruit purchasers from
other provinces and regions also headed home," Memet Dawut said.

The elderly vendor has been selling fruit for over a decade. His daily income
used to be about 1,000 yuan ($163) during the peak  season. But now, he worries
that he may not be able to make as much during upcoming s.

Lukqun is renowned for its honeydew melons and other fruit, which are a pillar
of the local economy. Farmers depend on fruit sales to stay afloat, but the June
26 attack has made many wonder whether they will be able to sell enough to get
by.

Wang Mei, a 50-year-old melon farmer, has piles of melons waiting to be sold on
the market. However, she has had a hard time finding laborers to pick up and
transport the melons to buyers, as the local labor market emptied following the
attack.

The attack occurred during a peak period for fruit sales and has heavily
affected the town's melon and grape industry, said Abdurahman Hupur, mayor of
Lukqun.

The town is dealing with both a major labor shortage and a sharp reduction in
the number of fruit buyers, he added.

Wang said she is also worried about her restaurant and hotel busines, which are
usually popular with fruit buyers when they come to the area to purchase fruit.

Wang remembers hearing loud explosions on the day of the attack, when she was
preparing for a banquet at her restaurant. She opened the restaurant's door and
offered refuge to local residents who were seeking shelter.

The banquet was canceled and the restaurant received few customers after the
attack.

"The town is always lively and peaceful. I never thought something so brutal
could happen here. It is not acceptable for anyone," Wang said.

Abdurahman Hupur said the current difficulties are temporary, as farm produce
agents are working to encourage fruit buyers to return to the area. The agents
are also working to act as middlemen, purchasing and transporting fruit for
farmers and buyers who don't want to leave their respective locations.

Lukqun will be revitalized, the mayor said.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Staffordshire Newsletter

                                  July 4, 2013

Residents left terrorised after arson attack

BYLINE: Sarah Marshall

LENGTH: 88  words


TENANTS left frightened after arsonists torched their block of flats say they
are bracing themselves for summer holiday trouble.

Householders were evacuated from Derwent House in Hawksmoor Road in the early
hours of June 17 after the blaze in the stairwell and worried residents said
they were putting up with constant trouble.

Resident Billy Evans said: "Things have calmed down and we have seen more police
patrols around.

"But we are just worried about the summer holidays and whether that will lead to
people hanging around again."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SN


                    Copyright 2013 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 5, 2013 Friday

Eastern DRCongo administrator dreads imminent attack by terrorists, rebels

LENGTH: 448 words


Text of report by DRCongo's UN-sponsored Radio Okapi website on 5 July

[Unattributed report: "Nord-Kivu: Julien Paluku fears the attack of Beni by a
rebel and terrorist coalition"]

The governor of Nord-Kivu Province, Julien Paluku, on 4 July, denounced the
presence of members of the terrorist group, Al-Shabab, on the sides of the
ADF-NALU [Allied Democratic Forces -National Army for the Liberation of Uganda]
Ugandan rebels and the Mayi-Mayi militias in the Beni territory.

According to him, this rebel, terrorist and militia coalition is preparing an
imminent attack against Beni City. Julien Paluku is calling on the international
community and the Congolese government to mobilize so as to prevent the
expansion of terrorism in the region.

According to the Nord-Kivu government, the security situation in Beni has been
particularly disturbing since the attack against the central prison of this
territory on 1 July. Four persons had been killed and 288 others detainees had
escaped during this operation attributed to a Mai-Mai group.

Julien Paluku considers, above all, that the change in the modus operandi of
these militias during the last attacks was disturbing. "Before, these attacks
were too old-fashioned, but, for some time now, the method of attacking the
positions of the FARDC [Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of Congo] has
changed. This leads us to believe, indeed, that there on the side of the Mai-Mai
groups, especially Col Hilaire Kombi [a deserting officer], and terrorists of
the Al-Shabbaab type as it was denounced several times," he said.

According to Governor Paluku, the threat of a possible attack against Beni puts
a "real" pressure on the population of this territory. "That's why I am
launching an appeal to both the international community and the Congolese
government. If terrorism establishes itself in the region, it will be very
dangerous for the life of our people," he pleaded.

He also called on the army and Monusco to be vigilant, believing that the
objective of the Ugandan rebels of the ADF/Nalu, by uniting with the Mai-Mai
militias, was to sabotage the efforts made, in particular the deployment of
Monusco's intervention brigade, with the view of pacifying this region.

According to him, their aim is to capture the town of Beni, at least to occupy
the entire territory of the same name. Al-Shabab (youth, in Arab) is a Somali
Islamist group that militates for the instauration of Shar'iah. Suspected of
maintaining strong links with the central management of Al-Qa'idah in Pakistan,
it was placed on the United States' official list of terrorist organizations in
February 2008.

Source: Radio Okapi website, Kinshasa, in French 0000 gmt 5 Jul 13

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              July 5, 2013 Friday

Pain lingers after Xinjiang terrorist attack

BYLINE: Cui Jia

SECTION: COVER STORY

LENGTH: 300 words


Authorities blame religious extremism and call for tighter security, reports Cui
Jia in Lukqun township, Turpan

Public services have returned to normal a week after a police station in the
Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region was attacked by terrorists on June 26.

But blackened bloodstains on the wall of the building remind people in Lukqun
township, Turpan prefecture, of the nightmare they experienced.

The attack by a 16-member gang resulted in 35 deaths - two police officers, two
assistant officers, 20 residents and 11 gang members.

It was the second-deadliest attack the region has witnessed. A riot that broke
out in the regional capital, Urumqi, on July 5, 2009, killed 197 people.

Sixteen of the victims in the latest attack were Uygurs, according to police,
who said the gang members had been brainwashed by religious extremists.

The region has been in the front line of the battle against separatists,
extremists and terrorists. The authorities have intensified anti-terrorist
efforts since April after a number of disturbances in regional centers such as
Kashgar, Hotan and Turpan, according to Zhang Chunxian, Party chief of Xinjiang.
The central government is determined to curb the attacks, which have two things
in common: brutality and indiscriminate killings of innocent people.

When the violence broke out, Li Changqing, the head of Lukqun police station,
was asleep on the second floor of the station, while four unarmed officers were
on duty on the ground floor.

"Around 5:50 am, I heard a loud noise in the hallway and someone tried to open
the door of my room. When I opened the door, I saw seven or eight masked men
waving long knives and attacking every officer they could see," said Li, 37,
from his hospital bed, where he is receiving treatment for deep lacerations to
his back.


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             July 6, 2013 Saturday

Witnesses' account of Xinjiang terror attacks

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 2225 words


More than one week after rioters killed 24 people at Lukqun Township in
northwest China's  Uygur Autonomous Region, the charred walls of a police
station still serve as a painful reminder of that violent morning on June 26.

What happened on that bloody morning? Who were the rioters? What have caused a
series of violent terrorist attacks in Xinjiang?

Over the past week, Xinhua reporters conducted extensive interviews with
victims, witnes, officials and experts to uncover more details of the terror
attacks.

Bloody slaughter

Lukqun Township in Shanshan County is well known for its abundant melon and
grape production. The police station, government building and the office
building of the special patrol squadron are located from west to east along the
township's main artery, with stores dotting both sides of the road.

At this time of year, local people usually start their day early in order to
dodge the temperatures that begin to soar around noon. At dawn of June 26, about
1,000 workers gathered near a crossroad in the town center, waiting to pick and
transport fruit.

No one could have known what was about to happen. Around 6 a.m., truck driver
Liu Fei from Korla City in southern Xinjiang was awakened by noise outside.
Through his windows, he saw flames spurting from the police station across the
road and a chaotic scene on the street crowded with people.

Shortly after, he saw a group of people run out of the police station, wielding
long knives. They jumped onto a motorized tricycle and piled into a black
Volkswagen Santana sedan and rushed toward the township government building,
followed by another group of shouting young people, some of whom were wearing
masks.

What shocked Liu most was a human head in a pool of blood in the middle of the
street.

The violent terrorist attack was the most severe since the July 5, 2009 riots
that resulted in 197 deaths in Xinjiang's capital of Urumqi.

The police station was only the rioters' first target. They attacked the office
building of the special patrol squadron, the township government building, a
site, a private store and a beauty saloon. They also set fire to multiple cars
and motorcycles.

Abulimit, a retired teacher who used to be up early, on that day was killed
while trying to stop the rioters from attacking a pedestrian with their wielding
long knives.

A security guard also saw the atrocities and alerted police. He was also killed
while trying to stop the rioters.

The rioters also attacked a construction site, killing a number of workers
there.

According to public security authorities, 24 people, including two females, were
killed in the attack. Of the victims, 16 were ethnic Uygurs and eight were of
Han ethnic. The attacks also left 21 others injured.

On the afternoon when Xinhua reporters arrived at Lukqun, the wreckage of
charred or damaged cars, police vehicles and motorcycles could be seen along the
road and in the yards outside the targeted buildings.

The shrouded bodies of some victims were lain in the backyard of the police
station. A police officer told reporters that at least five victims were
beheaded.

"The bodies of the police officers and civilians were all gathered here to be
taken away, while the rioters' bodies were put in another place. We must not lay
their bodies together," the police officer said, bursting into tears.

The terror attack shocked local communities, as the region of Turpan Prefecture
that administers Shanshan County has witnessed fast development in recent years,
and local people live a relatively well-off life.

"We are living a paradise-like life. But on that day, I saw the scenes of hell,"
said Suleyman, an ethnic Uygur who has lived in the township for more than three
decades.

Masterminded terror attacks

Police investigations suggest that the multiple attacks in Shanshan on June 26
was a premeditated and organized violent terrorist crime.

Before the violent attack, rioters had internalized religious extremism spread
by foreigners, carried out secretive and illegal religious activities, watched
terrorist video footage, purchased criminal tools and familiarized themselves
with the  surrounding the targets, according to police investigations.

The way the attacks were carried out and the horror the perpetrators inflicted
on the public was similar to the terrorist attacks in other countries, as the
perpetrators were deluded by overseas terrorist organizations who incited them
to action and scouted the targets multiple times ahead of the attack.

Police have learned that a group of people headed by Ahmatniyaz Sidiq and Eli
Ahmatniyaz, both from Lukqun Township, began to illegally gather and watch
terrorist video footage and listen to audio programs from the terrorist group
East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM) that spread so-called "jihad" principles.

After becoming religious extremists, they actively recruited members for a
17-member group to carry out illegal religious activities. Meanwhile, they
mulled terrorist attacks and conspired to go abroad to participate in the
"jihad," according to police.

Before the attack, two extremists from Kuqa County in southern Xinjiang
mobilized the group to carry out a "jihad." As they considered it would be too
difficult to go abroad, they instead planned to stage the violent attacks
locally.

The evidence shows that, in plotting the attack, Eli Ahmatniyaz and some other
members said clearly on June 20 that they wanted to "start a 'jihad' and do
something big."

They set the town's police station and the special patrol squadron as their
initial attack targets, then they would attack local government buildings and
residents.

They raised funds and purchased 26 long knives, 21 daggers and 310 liters of
gasoline. They also made 28 petrol bombs.

Police evidence shows that before the incident, some members of the gang
conducted several scouting missions around the township government building, the
police station and nearby places under the instigation of Eli Ahmatniyaz.

On June 26, the rioters staged the mobile attack, driving the motorized tricycle
and the hijacked Santana car.

"I have seen that man before, as he often showed up on the street recently. I
never thought that he was plotting such evil deeds," said a witness who had
recognized the driver of the motorized tricycle. The witness preferred not to be
name over fears of terrorists taking revenge.

The attacks unfolded in a way that many local people did not even think of.

Around 1:00 a.m. on that day, 16 rioters gathered for a religious ritual and
they rushed to a gas station in three motorized tricycles and forced staff there
to fill their cans with gas around 3:00 a.m.

Around 5:50 a.m., the rioters assaulted the police station in Lukqun and the
township government building, axing officers, burning buildings and crashing
cars.

While carrying out the attacks, the terrorists tried to kill everybody they saw
along their way, attacking a beauty salon and a construction site, killing and
injuring innocent people, including ethnic Uygurs.

The local government and police imtely launched counter-attacks. They killed 11
rioters and arrested four others. Many knives and gas cans used by the
terrorists were confiscated.

"The attacks were well planned. The rioters wanted to get rid of law enforcement
officers first and then attack the government and the civilians," said a wounded
Uygur policeman, Askar, who gunned down several rioters.

Terrorists incited by 'three evil forces'

The knife-wielding rioters slaughtered innocent people regardless of sex, age or
ethnicity.

Police evidence shows that these terrorists were incited into action and deluded
by the "three evil forces" of terrorism, separatism and extremism.

Police said illegal religious activities and religious extremism have been
increasing in Xinjiang in recent years due to the influence of hostile forces
both at home and abroad. Some young people have had their thoughts changed and
been deluded by religious extremists in videos about the "jihad."

Moreover, the "three evil forces" have frequently deluded and instigated hatred
between different ethnics through online rumors. The collusion between the
hostile forces at home and abroad made terrorists more organized.

Some extremist religious groups and extremist individuals organized illegal
religious activities on the Internet, spread religious extremism, advocated the
"jihad," recruited members and organized and plotted terrorist activities.

Many local residents said the public security situation in Lukqun Township had
been deteriorating over the past year or two amid the growing religious
extremism.

Abdurehim, a Lukqun resident, said some people have been advocating religious
extremism by claiming that those who oppose their opinions are not real Muslims.

Li Changqing, chief officer of the town's police station who shot several
rioters, said all the rioters were local people, mostly in their early-20s, who
were affected by religious extremism.

Li said that some people had previously tried to stop all stores in the township
from selling cigarettes and alcohol. They assaulted those who disobeyed them,
set fires and created disorder in the township.

Investigations show that these acts were conducted by some religious extremists.
Police had already arrested some suspects. The violent attack on June 26
occurred while those people were being investigated, said Li.

"We do not rule out that the direct cause of the terrorist attack was revenge by
some extremists against the administrative and law enforcement departments. And
the underlying cause is that they were brainwashed by extreme religious
thoughts," Li said.

On June 25, one day ahead of the terrorist attack, police apprehended one member
of the terrorists. Fearing their illegal activities would be exposed, Ahmatniyaz
Sidiq, the terrorist ringleader, called on his accomplices to stage the attack.

Some of the rioters had previous convictions. Police investigations show that
40-year-old Ahmatniyaz Sidiq was sentenced to two-and-a-half years in prison at
the end of 2001 for joining in a separatist group. Eli Ahmatniyaz, 31, a core
member of the group, was also sentenced to four years in prison in 2004 for the
same reason.

"I can hardly understand why they slaughtered indiscriminately. Don't they have
their own parents and children?" said policeman Askar.

He said the incident disrupted normal life and harmony in the township, and
people must stay vigilant against terrorists.

Crackdown on terrorists urged

A series of violent terrorist attacks in Xinjiang have taken many lives and
created huge losses, dam Xinjiang's social progress and ethnic unity.

Religious extremism has become the biggest threat to Xinjiang's security, said a
Xinjiang researcher at Lanzhou Military Command Area, who requested anonymity in
discussing the matter.

The "three evil forces" of terrorism, separatism and extremism were boosted,
partly because some countries offered consent and support religious extremist
forces, the researcher said.

"The violent terrorist attacks this year mainly targeted grassroots government
agencies. The terrorists killed officials and residents of Uygur and other
ethnics," said Pan Zhiping, a researcher at the Xinjiang Academy of Social s.

"The attacks are typical cases of terrorism," Pan said. "They are targetting the
Communist Party of China and the Chinese government, in an attempt to disrupte
the good prospects of Xinjiang's development."

Whenever a violent terrorist attack occurs, the "three evil forces" and other
hostile forces abroad will give speeches that confuse right and wrong, mislead
the public and slander the Chinese government. Such speeches have encouraged the
arrogance of terrorists, according to experts.

Yiblayan Eli, the last attacker at large in the Lukqun violent attack, was
captured on June 30, thanks to tips given to police by the public. Two people
selling knives to the terrorists were also arrested on the same day.

"Lukqun is a beautiful and peaceful town. The rioters damaged our good life and
we hate them," said Zaytuna Ghalip, an employee at a photo studio in town. "But
I believe our town will become better and safer."

"A dog's bark will never make a camel go astray," Turghan Pida, direr of the
Ethnic Affairs Commission of Xinjiang, said by citing a local proverb.

He said the terrorists could not represent any ethnic or any religion.

"They betrayed their motherland and their people. They are the common enemies of
every Xinjiang people," Turghan Pida said.

Meanwhile, Xinjiang is facing a severe situation in maintaining stability.

A top Xinjiang public security official said police officers will always stay
active in fighting terrorist crimes and severely crack down on terrorists. He
also called on the public to actively expose terrorist schemes and contribute to
maintaining social stability.

"Xinjiang is developing really fast. It has so many opportunities, especially in
Turpan. Everything is developing very fast and we must cherish such good days,"
said a wounded policeman, who added that he will return to work after he is
discharged from the hospital.

But the violent attack has cast a shadow over the small town in the midst of its
season.

"The grapes will start ripening by the end of July. We will convince rs to come
to Lukqun and buy our products. The difficulty is only temporary," said Abdu
Raxman Gupur, head of the township government.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             July 6, 2013 Saturday

Investigations reveal details of Xinjiang terror attack

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 623 words


URUMQI - More than one week after rioters killed 24 people at Lukqun Township in
northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, the charred walls of a
police station still serve as a painful reminder of that violent morning on June
26.

What happened on that bloody morning? Who were the rioters? What have caused a
series of violent terrorist attacks in Xinjiang?

Over the past week, Xinhua reporters conducted extensive interviews with
victims, witnesses, officials and experts to uncover more details of the terror
attacks.

Bloody Slaughter

Lukqun Township in Shanshan County is well known for its abundant melon and
grape production. The police station, government building and the office
building of the special patrol squadron are located from west to east along the
township's main artery, with stores dotting both sides of the road.

At this time of year, local people usually start their day early in order to
dodge the temperatures that begin to soar around noon. At dawn of June 26, about
1,000 workers gathered near a crossroad in the town center, waiting to pick and
transport fruit.

No one could have known what was about to happen. Around 6 a.m., truck driver
Liu Fei from Korla City in southern Xinjiang was awakened by noise outside.
Through his windows, he saw flames spurting from the police station across the
road and a chaotic scene on the street crowded with people.

Shortly after, he saw a group of people run out of the police station, wielding
long knives. They jumped onto a motorized tricycle and piled into a black
Volkswagen Santana sedan and rushed toward the township government building,
followed by another group of shouting young people, some of whom were wearing
masks.

What shocked Liu most was a human head in a pool of blood in the middle of the
street.

The violent terrorist attack was the most severe since the July 5, 2009 riots
that resulted in 197 deaths in Xinjiang's capital of Urumqi.

The police station was only the rioters' first target. They attacked the office
building of the special patrol squadron, the township government building, a
construction site, a private store and a beauty saloon. They also set fire to
multiple cars and motorcycles.

Abulimit, a retired teacher who used to be up early, on that day was killed
while trying to stop the rioters from attacking a pedestrian with their wielding
long knives.

A security guard also saw the atrocities and alerted police. He was also killed
while trying to stop the rioters.

The rioters also attacked a construction site, killing a number of workers
there.

According to public security authorities, 24 people, including two females, were
killed in the attack. Of the victims, 16 were ethnic Uygurs and eight were of
Han ethnic. The attacks also left 21 others injured.

On the afternoon when Xinhua reporters arrived at Lukqun, the wreckage of
charred or damaged cars, police vehicles and motorcycles could be seen along the
road and in the yards outside the targeted buildings.

The shrouded bodies of some victims were lain in the backyard of the police
station. A police officer told reporters that at least five victims were
beheaded.

"The bodies of the police officers and civilians were all gathered here to be
taken away, while the rioters' bodies were put in another place. We must not lay
their bodies together," the police officer said, bursting into tears.

The terror attack shocked local communities, as the region of Turpan Prefecture
that administers Shanshan County has witnessed fast development in recent years,
and local people live a relatively well-off life.

"We are living a paradise-like life. But on that day, I saw the scenes of hell,"
said Suleyman, an ethnic Uygur who has lived in the township for more than three
decades.


LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 7, 2013 Sunday

Ministry says blasts outside north Indian temple "terror" attack

LENGTH: 165 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 7 Jul: Serial explosions inside and outside Mahabodhi temple in east
Indian state Bihar were a terror attack, the Indian Home Ministry said on Sunday
as it sent National Investigation Agency (NIA) and National Security

Guard (NSG) teams for post-blasts investigations. "It was a terror attack,"
Union Home Secretary Anil Goswami told PTI.

He, however, said so far no group has claimed responsibility for the multiple
blasts and investigations were on. Goswami said four blasts took place inside
the temple complex while four occurred outside it.

The Home Secretary said teams from National Investigation Agency and National
Security Guard comprising explosive experts were sent to Bihar to help the
police in collection of evidence and assist in post-blasts investigation.

Two people were injured in the serial blasts early this morning in the temple
town of Bodh Gaya in Bihar.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0538gmt 07 Jul 13

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 7, 2013 Sunday 12:00 AM GMT

Nigerian terror group attack kills 29 children;
Boko Haram insurgents storm school in Yobe state armed with guns and cans of
petrol

BYLINE: Alex Delmar-Morgan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 609 words


Armed extremists stormed a school in north-east Nigeria in the early hours of
yesterday morning, setting fire to the building and killing 29 students and a
teacher.

Gunmen attacked Government Secondary School in the town of Mamudo in Yobe state
at around 3am local time. Survivors said suspected militants arrived armed with
guns and containers full of fuel and set fire to the school. Twenty-nine pupils
out of a school population of 1,200 died, together with an English teacher,
named as Mohammed Musa, who was shot in the chest, according to an agency
report. Survivors were treated for burns in a nearby hospital.

In a separate attack in Taraba state, suspected Islamist gunmen robbed a bank,
killing three policemen.

The school attack, believed to the work of the radical terror group Boko Haram,
is the deadliest in a string of attacks on schools in the past few weeks by the
Islamist organisation, which now controls territory in the far north-east of the
country.

Nigeria's government is battling a growing insurgency from Boko Haram militants,
responsible for around 2,000 deaths since the start of their violent campaign in
2009. The group's rise is seen as a threat to Nigeria's large oil industry.

In May, President Goodluck Jonathan declared a state of emergency in three
north-eastern states, dispatching troops to try to crush the Islamist rebellion.
Since the start of the government offensive, troops claim some success,
regaining control of towns and villages in the north-east and arresting scores
of extremist fighters.

The al-Qa'ida-allied group is calling for the implementation of sharia law
across an ethnically diverse country where Christians, predominantly in the
south, and Muslims, in the north, each make up around half of Nigeria's 175
million population.

Parents of the victims caught up in yestrday's attack wept as they tried to
identify burnt bodies, some riddled with gunshot wounds. Malam Abdullahi, a
farmer, found the bodies of his 10-year-old son, shot in the back as he
apparently tried to run away, and his elder brother, 12, shot in the chest.
"That's it, I'm taking my other boys out of school," he said, adding that he had
three younger children in a nearby school.

"It's not safe," he added. "The gunmen are attacking schools and there is no
protection for students, despite all the soldiers."

One eyewitness described the moment of panic when he woke to find an attacker
confronting him. "We were sleeping when we heard gunshots. When I woke up,
someone was pointing a gun at me," said 15-year-old Musa Hassan, who had four
fingers blown off from his right hand. "They burned the children alive," he
added, describing how the gunmen brought jerry cans of fuel to torch the
complex.

Dozens of children were reported as having escaped by running into the nearby
bush, though they have not been seen since.

Since the start of its campaign four years ago, Boko Haram, whose name
translates as "Western education is sinful", has blown up churches, traditional
mosques, and the United Nations headquarters in Nigeria's capital, Abuja, in
2011.

Earlier this year, it carried out its first cross-border raid, kidnapping a
group of French nationals as they returned from Waza National Park in Cameroon.
The family of seven, including four children, were freed two months later.

To the north-west of Nigeria, Mali has lifted a six-month-long state of
emergency to allow campaigning for the presidential election, due to be held at
the end of the month. The move comes after a French-led offensive in January to
drive Islamist militants from the country. Four former prime ministers, as well
as 28 other candidates, are standing.

AP

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                              July 8, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Qatada denies involvement in al-Qaida terrorist attacks;
DEPORTED: RADICAL PREACHER REFUTES CLAIMS IN JORDANIAN COURT

BYLINE: PA NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 338 words


Abu Qatada has denied plotting al-Qaida-inspired terror attacks at a court in
Jordan after a near-decadelong battle to deport the radical cleric finally saw
him board a plane out of Britain.

Under cover of darkness, the 53-year-old, dressed in robes and headscarf, was
escorted by Scotland Yard officers on to a private flight from RAF Northolt, in
west London, in the early hours yesterday.

Upon arriving in Jordan, the father-of-five was taken by masked anti-terror
police to a military court on the outskirts of the capital, Amman, where he has
pleaded not guilty to conspiracy to carry out terror attacks in 1999 and 2000.

Charges faced by Qatada cover a foiled plot against the American school in Amman
and an alleged attack on Israeli and American tourists during new year
celebrations.

His departure has triggered a wave of relief throughout Westminster as the
controversial preacher could have challenged his removal once again at any
minute.

Home Secretary Theresa May said: "I am glad that the Government's determination
to see him on a plane has been vindicated and that we have at last achieved what
previous governments, Parliament and the British public have long called for.

"This dangerous man has now been removed from our shores to face the courts in
his own country."

Following numerous courtroom battles, it was a treaty signed between the UK and
Jordan that finally secured Qatada's departure, giving the radical preacher the
assurances he needed to leave his taxpayer-funded home behind.

The cleric was seen in images released by the Ministry of Defence being shown to
the door of an aircraft by an official. Other broadcast footage showed Qatada
aboard the plane, looking out of a window.

Now in Jordan, his lawyer Tayseer Thiab told reporters his client "told military
prosecutors that he is not guilty of terrorism and rejected the charges against
him".

A military prosecutor said he will be detained for 15 days pending further
questioning at Muwaqar I, a prison in Amman's south-eastern industrial suburb of
Sahab.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FLIGHT: Abu Qatada boarding a private jet bound for Jordan
PICTURE: PRESS ASSOCIATION

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LEM


                        Copyright 2013 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                              July 8, 2013 Monday

Deported cleric Abu Qatada in court to deny plotting terror attacks inspired by
al-Qaida

LENGTH: 310  words


Abu Qatada has denied plotting al-Qaida inspired terror attacks at a court in
Jordan after a near-decade long battle to deport the radical cleric finally saw
him board a plane out of Britain.

Under cover of darkness, the 53-year-old, dressed in robes and headscarf, was
escorted by Scotland Yard police officers on to a private flight from RAF
Northolt, in west London, in the early hours of yesterday.

Upon arriving in Jordan, the father-of-five was taken by masked anti-terror
police to a military court on the outskirts of the capital Amman where he
pleaded not guilty to conspiracy to carry out terror attacks in 1999 and 2000.

Charges faced by Qatada cover a foiled plot against the American school in Amman
and an alleged attack on Israeli and American tourists during new year
celebrations.

His lawyer, Tayseer Thiab, said Qatada "told military prosecutors that he is not
guilty of terrorism and rejected the charges against him".

A military prosecutor said he will be detained for 15 days pending further
questioning at Muwaqar I, a prison in Amman's southeastern industrial suburb of
Sahab.

However Mr Thiab is understood to be preparing a bail application for as early
as today.

Information Minister Mohammed Momani said Jordan "is keen on credibility and
transparency" in handling Qatada, whose real name is Omar Mahmoud Mohammed
Othman. He added that his deportation "sends a message to all fugitives that
they will face justice in Jordan".

Qatada's father, Mahmoud, and an unidentified relative stood at the entrance of
the State Security Court in Amman, but were not allowed to enter.

"I have nothing to say, except that my son is innocent and I hope the court will
set him free," Qatada's father told reporters.

His departure has triggered a wave of relief throughout Westminster as the
controversial preacher could have challenged his removal once again.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 9, 2013 Tuesday

China seeks Nepal's help to prevent terrorist attacks - report

LENGTH: 944 words


Text of report published by Nepali newspaper Annapurna Post website on 5 July

Kathmandu - The northern neighbour China, in anticipation of increased terrorist
attacks against the country, has sought the Nepalese Government's cooperation to
prevent them. China says that there have been a series of terrorist attacks in
the country and that Nepal's cooperation will be important in preventing such
attacks.

An official letter by the Chinese Embassy in Nepal addressed to the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs three days back urges: "In order to prevent such attacks being
made in China, the Nepalese Government as a neighbouring country should also
help take intelligence initiatives." China has requested for intelligence
gathering on the institutions and the persons involved in possible anti-China
activities in Nepal and to step up very strict monitoring on them.

China has described the present time as sensitive. While urging for a continued
support and cooperation during the sensitive times, China has said in the
letter: "We in all seriousness would like to request the Nepalese Government to
step up necessary security arrangements and intelligence efforts so that such
extremist groups or people who are involved in anti-China activities are kept
under very strict monitoring."

The letter from the Chinese Government has been sent not just to the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs but also to all the security agencies. The letters, sent to the
Ministry of Home Affairs, the Defense Ministry, and the headquarters of the
Nepalese Army, the Nepal Police, the Armed Police Force, and the National
Investigation Department [intelligence agency], mentions that in the light of
attempts being made for terrorist attacks against China, China would like to
request all the security agencies of Nepal to foil such attempts. The Chinese
Government anticipates terrorist attacks in China and a growth in possible
anti-China activities in Nepal on 5 and 6 July. The 5 July marks the fourth
anniversary of ethnic clashes in Uyghur Autonomous Region in the northwestern
Xinjiang Province. Likewise, 6 July marks the birthday of Tibet's famous
religious leader, the Dalai Lama.

About four years ago on 5 July, the minority Muslim community had launched a
major revolt. The Chinese Government was successful in suppressing the revolt
quickly. The supporters of the Dalai Lama have undertaken a series of
self-immolation bids demanding the independence of Tibet.

The Chinese Government has been describing the Uyghur revolt as terrorist
attacks and separatist activities and has been alleging that Lama and his
supporters as religious extremists engaged in violent activities.

In the latter, China has referred to the anti-China violent activities by the
extremists in the two neighboring countries of Nepal and India for a long time.
China has said: "The entire China is suffering from the terrorist evil
activities. This needs to be condemned by all the peace loving people and the
government all over the world and should be committed to defeat all terrorists
and their activities."

The letter also mentions it is in collaboration with the international terrorist
organizations that attacks are being made in China. China alleges that the East
Turkistan is a terrorist and separatist organization, it has links with the
international terrorist organizations, and it is through this organization that
attack has been made on northwestern China. The letter said: "This attack has
been made by the three forces of terrorism, extremism, and separatism and this
has done a great damage to the lives and property of the simple, voiceless
people. Not only this, this has also posed the unity and security of this
region."

On expressing the commitment to continue to perennially fight against terrorism,
China in the letter said that there should not be double standards controlling
terrorism. Even though China has claimed that terrorists, separatists, and
extremists in China have links with the international terrorists, it has not
mentioned the names of countries where these organizations are active.

All the peace loving people in the world understand the violent activities
taking place in China and they will support the stand taken by China, according
to the letter. It said: "There is no dispute that the matter on Xinjiang is
related to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of China. Therefore, the
Chinese Government will not lag behind in taking action against such criminals."

China, in the letter to the Nepalese Government, refers to three major terror
attacks that had taken place in China in the past one year.

Terrorist Attacks in China

On 26 June, an attack by a religious extremist group consisting of 17 people led
by Ahmad Niyaz Siddiqui in Turpan District of Sansan County left 24 people dead.
This included 16 people of Uyghur community. In the attack, 21 policemen and
ordinary people were injured. The Chinese Government had shot dead 11 terrorists
four of them who were injured were arrested immediately while another one was
arrested after four days.

On 24 April 2013, an armed terrorist group attacked Kasghar District in Bachu
county killing 21 people, including 15 ordinary people. Six of the terrorists
involved in the attack were shot dead.

On 29 June 2013, six people at Hotan had attempted to hijack, in the name of
"holy war" GS 7554 flight of the Tianjin Airlines. The bold flight crew and the
passengers succeeded to take the hijackers under control within the aircraft. In
the process two of the flight security personnel were seriously injured while an
air host and seven passengers were slightly injured.

Source: Annapurna Post, Kathmandu, in Nepali 05 Jul 13

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 10, 2013 Wednesday

Uganda: Seventeen suspects on trial following 2010 Kampala terror attack

LENGTH: 166 words


Excerpt from report entitled "Remembering 11 July, 2010 bomb blasts in Kampala"
published by state-owned, mass-circulation Ugandan daily The New Vision website
on 10 July

Exactly three years ago, the Somali-based Al-Shabab militants, who have close
links with the world's leading terror group, Al-Qa'idah, attacked Uganda,
killing 76 people who were watching the final of the FIFA World Cup.

The bombs went off almost simultaneously at the Kyaddondo Rugby Grounds at
Lugogo and the Ethiopian Village in Kabalagala, Kampala. Al-Shabab claimed
responsibility for the bombings.

The Somali-based Al-Shabab militants claimed responsibility for the explosions,
saying it was avenging the presence of Ugandan peacekeepers in the war-torn Horn
of Africa country.

Seventeen suspects, the majority being foreigners, are still on trial over the
tragedy. The suspects face three counts of terrorism, 76 counts of murder and 10
[counts] of attempted murder.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 10 Jul 13

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            July 10, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Apartments blaze terror;
FAMILIES ESCAPE 'ARSONIST ATTACK'

BYLINE: GARRETH MacNAMEE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 494 words


HEROIC firefighters helped rescue three children and 10 adults from a suspicious
apartment block blaze.

The drama unfolded after a fire broke out at the Thornfield complex in
Clondalkin, West Dublin, in the early hours of yesterday.

Frantic parents passed their little ones out of windows to the firefighters as
the blaze threatened to go out of control at around 5.30am.

Gardai said they believed the inferno was suspicious and they are treating the
apartment building as a crime scene.

A woman who was caught up in the terrifying incident went into labour and was
taken to hospital and four others were treated for smoke inhalation at the
scene.

As the mystery fire ripped through the complex, the fire alarm sounded, saving
families from certain death.

One woman described the scene she awoke to, explaining the chaos and panic that
surrounded the quiet suburb.

Natalie Lawrence told RTE's Morning Ireland: "The fire alarm went off. I went
out to knock off the alarm and the whole place was in flames, outside my
friend's door.

"So we had to run around and get the kids out the front window as quick as we
could, because the whole place was in flames.

"On the other side of the apartments, all the other people were getting out the
windows."

Natalie's neighbour Lisa added: "I woke up this morning with the alarms going
off, there was flames coming underneath my door.

"I threw the kids off the balcony [to rescuers below]. I had to get down myself.
People could have died."

The fire started on the first-floor hallway and gardai are hunting a suspected
arsonist.

A spokesman for the Dublin Fire Brigade said: "We received a 999 call at around
5.30am. Several pumps and ambulances were deployed to the scene and began to
evacuate the building.

"Many people were trapped on each floor and several children were lowered to
safety from windows and balconies at the four-storey building."

Clondalkin councillor Gino Kenny said he was delighted everyone was able to get
out of the block safely.

He added: "First, the fire services were fantastic, they are lifesavers. It's
great that nobody was seriously injured in it. The fire doors worked and so did
all the alarms.

"But it could have been so much worse. Fire is lethal. It could have been a
terrible thing.

"We have seen in the past other blocks that don't have proper regulations and
fire safety when it can become a headache.

"It was obviously stressful for all involved but it was a good result in the
end."

Third Officer Greg O'Dwyer of the Dublin Fire Brigade said: "Initially it was a
three-pump fire. It was very developed when we arrived, the whole landing was
engulfed and the fire doors were jammed open.

"We were able to get to everyone in time and extinguish the fire after a while."

Gardai said there is water damage to some properties, although there is no
obvious damage to the exterior of the building.

O'Connor Management Company spokesman Jim O'Connor has been working to make sure
everyone has alternative accommodation.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCARE People in car park as flats made safe
ORDEAL Residents waiting outside complex
CRIME SCENE Garda at entrance to Thornfield complex in West Dublin yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            July 10, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Could a terrorist cyber attack set off World War 3?;
AFTER BLACKOUT THREAT TO LONDON OLYMPICS..

BYLINE: CRISPIN BLACK

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 883 words


COULD World War Three start with the click of a mouse in a bedroom in Kabul or
an anonymous office block in Beijing?

That is the terrifying question faced by the West's intelligence agencies every
day, and it was thrown into sharp relief by yesterday's revelation that Islamist
terrorists attempted a cyber attack on the London Olympics.

They planned to disrupt the opening ceremony and possibly scupper the entire
event by tampering with the electrical power systems at various stadiums.
Luckily, they were thwarted by the UK's increasingly sophisticated and
well-resourced cyber security effort at GCHQ.

A blacked-out Olympics would have been embarrassing and annoying rather than
catastrophic but it gives an insight into the power of cyber warfare and the
ambition of some of its would-be practitioners.

Could ambitious terrorists start World War Three by launching electronic
attacks? Well, yes, they could, in theory, up to a point.

If terrorists, say, gained control of the computer systems behind the UK's
nuclear deterrent and managed to fire off a Trident missile at Russia, then
Russian radar systems would alert the Kremlin and President Putin would launch
his retaliation immediately - no questions asked.

But frightening though this scenario sounds it would actually be far more
difficult to accomplish than it looks.

Many military computers used to be fairly easy to hack into. In 2002 Gary
McKinnon, the Scottish systems administrator and hacker, played merry hell with
a number of US military computer networks.

But security has since improved dramatically. The most sensitive computers in
advanced countries are usually protected by an "air gap". In other words, they
are part of a closed system cut off from the rest of cyberspace. There is no
electronic connection to the outside world.

A clever hacker like McKinnon cannot find a way in, because there isn't one.

MESSAGE

Ironically, this was the kind of cyber-security practised by Osama bin Laden in
his hideout at Abbottabad in north east Pakistan.

Bin Laden had no phones and no internet connection. If he wanted to communicate
he would draft a message on his computer offline, download it on to a thumb
drive and get one of his helpers to send the message from a cyber cafe.

Replies were received in the same way. There were no electronic footprints
leading to bin Laden. The procedures for firing British Trident missiles are, of
course, surrounded by secrecy.

Most people assume it involves the exchange of complicated codes from the
"launch authority", the Prime Minister. But in fact it has been suggested that
the instruction to launch would actually be issued to naval headquarters on a
video-link by the PM in person. There are some good Cameron mimics but this
comparatively low-tech procedure acts as a final safeguard.

It might be a tiny bit easier to take control of the computer systems of a
nuclear power station and try to make one blow up. After all, Western
intelligence agencies managed to introduce the Stuxnet virus into Iran's uranium
processing centrifuges, giving them the equivalent of an electronic nervous
breakdown. What This might prove attractive to a certain type of terrorist, but
it would be unlikely to set off a world war.

There is one part of the world though where a cyber attack could indeed set off
a world war - South East Asia - where an increasingly competitive and suspicious
United States and an increasingly assertive and ambitious China are limbering up
to be rivals.

President Obama has deliberately tilted US defence policy away from Europe and
the Middle East to refocus on the Pacific. The US has offered military
protection to countries such as Australia which are fearful of Chinese
expansionism. From next year, there will be a sizeable force of US Marines based
in northern Australia. China is rapidly building its military strength -
launching its first aircraft carrier, the must-have accessory of military power
in the Pacific, earlier this year. It wants a blue-water navy to rival the US.
Aware of the difficulties of running large carrier fleets effectively, the
Chinese have set up a number of naval academies.

But everyone who wants to join the Chinese Navy has one thing in common - they
all study the Japanese surprise attack at Pearl Harbor. Americans fear surprise
attack.

BARRIERS

Relations between the US and the Chinese leadership are not warm. The language
and cultural barriers are difficult to overcome. The US is highly suspicious of
China's much vaunted cyber-warfare capability.

Islamists have little time for the Han Chinese who are seen as the oppressors of
the Muslim Uighur people who live in the far west of China.

They have even less for the US. What better way to take out two enemies at once
than by starting a military conflict in the Pacific? Conduct a sophisticated
cyber attack on a US carrier group in international waters in the South China
Sea. Persuade its commander it is under attack from a Chinese Dong Feng
anti-ship missile, fired from a Chinese Navy flotilla and you've got a fake
electronic Pearl Harbor.

There won't be time for the American admiral to check with Washington before
launching his own counter-attack. The terrorists sit back and watch the sparks
fly.

What better way to take out as two enemies at once than by starting conflict?
for two

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MISSILE Hackers could launch attack
HACKER McKinnon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 10, 2013 Wednesday 8:23 PM GMT

Dzhokar Tsarnaev's motorcade arrives to Boston courthouse where he'll face
terror attack victims for first time

BYLINE: PAUL THOMPSON, REUTERS REPORTER and AP REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1270 words



     ·    Wednesday's court appearance marks the 19-year-old's first public
          appearance since the April 15 explosion that killed three and injured
          264 others
     ·    Heavy security surrounds the federal courthouse, the same where the
          Whitey Bulger mob boss trial is in its fifth week
     ·    Survivors and their families will watch as Tsarnaev is arraigned
     ·    A dozen supporters holding signs and chanting 'Justice for Jahar' also
          stood outside the courthouse Wednesday
     ·    The teenage ethnic Chechen is charged with using a weapon of mass
          destruction and could face the death penalty
     ·    Tsarnaev's current physical condition remained unknown leading up to
          his courtroom appearance


Four hours before his first hearing, accused Boston bomber Dzhokar Tsarnaev
arrived at the courthouse in a four-vehicle motorcade that included a van, a
Humvee and a state police car.

Survivors of the Boston Marathon bombing will watch as the young man who could
face the death penalty for the attack appears in court for the first time since
he was found bleeding and hiding in a boat in a suburb days after the April 15
explosion.

Tsarnaev is to make his first appearance since the April terror attack in which
he is accused of killing three and injuring 264 others.

Scroll down for video...

A huge police presence was in force and the courthouse jammed for Tsarnaev's
appearance.

A spokeswoman for the U.S. attorney's office said space is being reserved in the
main courtroom for victims' families, but she wouldn't indicate how many planned
to attend. Court officials have set aside an overflow courtroom to broadcast the
hearing for the media.

The 30-count indictment against Tsarnaev includes 17 charges carrying the death
penalty or life imprisonment. Aside from bombing-related counts, it also
contains charges covering the slaying of a police officer and the carjacking of
a motorist during the getaway attempt that left Tsarnaev's older brother,
Tamerlan, dead.

The mother of one of the victims said she wanted to stare down 'the face of
evil.'

Liz Norden, whose two sons lost a leg each, said: 'It has been incredibly hard
to accept what happened to my boys.'

'I'm angry. I want to be there.'

Others who survived the two bombs exploding at the finishing line in April are
expected to be in court.

Martin Richard, 8; Krystle Marie Campbell, 29; and Lingzi Lu, 23 were killed by
the bombs, which were improvised from pressure cookers. Authorities say the
Tsarnaevs also killed Massachusetts Institute of Technology officer Sean Collier
days later while they were on the run

A group of about a dozen Tsarnaev supporters cheered as the motorcade arrived.
The demonstrators yelled 'Justice for Jahar,' as Tsarnaev is known. One woman
held a sign that said, 'Free Jahar.'

Brittney Gillis, a student at the University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth, where
Tsarnaev attended, came to the courthouse because she wanted to see the suspect.
She said he used to walk her friend home in the evenings because he was worried
about her being alone.

'He would walk her from the campus library to her dorm at night,' she said.

Some former high school wrestling teammates in attendance weren't sure what to
make of the accusation against their old friend.

One of them, Hank Alvarez, said Tsarnaev was calm, peaceful and apolitical in
high school.

'Just knowing him, it's hard for me to face the fact that he did it,' said
Alvarez, 19, of Cambridge.

Another ex-teammate, Shun Tsou, 20, of Cambridge, called Tsarnaev 'a silent
warrior type.'

'There was nothing sketchy about him,' said Tsou, adding that he had not formed
an opinion on Tsarnaev's guilt or innocence.

'FREE JAHAR!': CONSPIRACY THEORISTS AND SUPPORTERS GATHER OUTSIDE ARRAIGNMENT OF
ALLEGED BOSTON BOMBER DZHOKAR TSARNAEV

Around a dozen supporters of accused Boston Marathon bomber, 19-year-old Dzhokar
Tsarnaev, were among those gathered outside John Joseph Moakley United States
Courthouse in South Boston awaiting his arraignment hearing and first public
appearance since the April 15 bombings that killed three and left many more
injured.

One woman held a sign that said, 'Free Jahar.'

Jennifer Michio wore a shirt bearing the teen's likeness and the words, 'Dzhokar
Tsarnaev Is Innocent.'

The supporters and protesters represented a cross-section of beliefs.

Several of Tsarnaev's high school wrestling teammates were in attendance and
weren't sure what to make of the accusations.

Another man, with no apparent personal connection to Tsarnaev, held a sign
proclaiming 'Boston was a false flag,' among other declarations.

Lacey Buckley, 23, said she traveled from her home in Wenatchee, Wash., to
attend the arraignment. Buckley said she has never met Tsarnaev but came because
she believes he's innocent.

'I just think so many of his rights were violated,' Buckley said. 'They almost
murdered an unarmed kid in a boat.'

Tsarnaev faces three murder charges from the bombing and a fourth from killing a
police officer who was shot before the teen and his elder brother engaged in a
gun battle before being captured.

It was the worst mass-casualty attack on U.S. soil since September 11, 2001 and
could bring a sentence of the death penalty.

The biggest challenge for Tsarnaev's attorney, public defender Miriam Conrad,
will be sparing him the death penalty, one observer said.

'I suspect that Miriam will start tomorrow by trying to change his image and
make him look like the normal, average, clean-cut young kid,' Walter Prince, a
former federal prosecutor in Boston who is now a partner with the law firm
Prince Lobel told Reuters.

Security was tighter than usual on Wednesday outside Boston's U.S. District
Courthouse, which is also the site of the ongoing murder and racketeering trial
of mob boss James "Whitey" Bulger, now in its fifth week.

Police set a line of metal barriers around the front of the fog-shrouded
waterfront building, and uniformed officers with dogs were patrolling its
perimeter. In addition to well over a dozen police cars and trucks, a Boston
Police boat was moored close to the building's side entrance - the normal entry
point for suspects in custody.

The hearing is due to be brief, with Conrad perhaps entering a not guilty plea
on his behalf, Prince said.

Conrad did not respond to a request for comment.

According to court papers, Tsarnaev scrawled a note on an inside wall and beams
of the boat in which he hid.

'The U.S. Government is killing our innocent civilians,' the note read,
according to court papers. 'We Muslims are one body, you hurt one you hurt us
all.'

'Now I don't like killing innocent people it is forbidden in Islam but due to
said it is allowed,' he wrote, according to court papers. 'Stop killing our
innocent people and we will stop.'

Tsarnaev was badly wounded during the gun battle and arrest. After initially
being confined at a city hospital, he was moved to a prison west of Boston.
Prosecutors have declined to comment on his current condition or if he is still
being held at the Fort Devens, Massachusetts, facility.

The Tsarnaev brothers' ethnic homeland of Chechnya, a mainly Muslim area that
saw centuries of war and repression, no longer threatens to secede from Russia.
But it has become a breeding ground for a form of militant Islam whose adherents
have spread violence to other parts of Russia.

Three people died in the April 15 bombing - 29-year-old restaurant manager
Krystle Campbell, 23-year-old graduate student Lingzi Lu and 8-year-old Martin
Richard.

Three days later the Tsarnaevs shot dead Massachusetts Institute of Technology
police officer Sean Collier, according to the indictment.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 10, 2013 Wednesday 6:35 PM GMT

Dzhokar Tsarnaev's motorcade arrives to Boston courthouse where he'll face
terror attack victims for first time

BYLINE: PAUL THOMPSON, REUTERS REPORTER and AP REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 995 words



     ·    Wednesday's court appearance marks the 19-year-old's first public
          appearance since the April 15 explosion that killed three and injured
          264 others
     ·    Heavy security surrounds the federal courthouse, the same where the
          Whitey Bulger mob boss trial is in its fifth week
     ·    Survivors and their families will watch as Tsarnaev is arraigned
     ·    A dozen supporters holding signs and chanting 'Justice for Jahar' also
          stood outside the courthouse Wednesday
     ·    The teenage ethnic Chechen is charged with using a weapon of mass
          destruction and could face the death penalty


Four hours before his first hearing, accused Boston bomber Dzhokar Tsarnaev
arrived at the courthouse in a four-vehicle motorcade that included a van, a
Humvee and a state police car.

Survivors of the Boston Marathon bombing will watch as the young man who could
face the death penalty for the attack appears in court for the first time since
he was found bleeding and hiding in a boat in a suburb days after the April 15
explosion.

Tsarnaev is to make his first appearance since the April terror attack in which
he is accused of killing three and injuring 264 others.

A huge police presence will be in force and the courthouse jammed for Tsarnaev's
appearance.

A spokeswoman for the U.S. attorney's office said space is being reserved in the
main courtroom for victims' families, but she wouldn't indicate how many planned
to attend. Court officials have set aside an overflow courtroom to broadcast the
hearing for the media.

The 30-count indictment against Tsarnaev includes 17 charges carrying the death
penalty or life imprisonment. Aside from bombing-related counts, it also
contains charges covering the slaying of a police officer and the carjacking of
a motorist during the getaway attempt that left Tsarnaev's older brother,
Tamerlan, dead.

The mother of one of the victims said she wanted to stare down 'the face of
evil' and will be in court.

Liz Norden, whose two sons lost a leg each, said: 'It has been incredibly hard
to accept what happened to my boys.'

'I'm angry. I want to be there.'

Others who survived the two bombs exploding at the finishing line in April are
expected to be in court.

Martin Richard, 8; Krystle Marie Campbell, 29; and Lingzi Lu, 23 were killed by
the bombs, which were improvised from pressure cookers. Authorities say the
Tsarnaevs also killed Massachusetts Institute of Technology officer Sean Collier
days later while they were on the run

A group of about a dozen Tsarnaev supporters cheered as the motorcade arrived.
The demonstrators yelled 'Justice for Jahar,' as Tsarnaev is known. One woman
held a sign that said, 'Free Jahar.'

Lacey Buckley, 23, said she traveled from her home in Wenatchee, Wash., to
attend the arraignment. Buckley said she has never met Tsarnaev but came because
she believes he's innocent. 'I just think so many of his rights were violated.
They almost murdered an unarmed kid in a boat,' she said.

Brittney Gillis, a student at the University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth, where
Tsarnaev attended, came to the courthouse because she wanted to see the suspect.
She said he used to walk her friend home in the evenings because he was worried
about her being alone.

'He would walk her from the campus library to her dorm at night,' she said.

Tsarnaev faces three murder charges from the bombing and a fourth from killing a
police officer who was shot before the teen and his elder brother engaged in a
gun battle before being captured.

It was the worst mass-casualty attack on U.S. soil since September 11, 2001 and
could bring a sentence of the death penalty.

The biggest challenge for Tsarnaev's attorney, public defender Miriam Conrad,
will be sparing him the death penalty, one observer said.

'I suspect that Miriam will start tomorrow by trying to change his image and
make him look like the normal, average, clean-cut young kid,' Walter Prince, a
former federal prosecutor in Boston who is now a partner with the law firm
Prince Lobel told Reuters.

Security was tighter than usual on Wednesday outside Boston's U.S. District
Courthouse, which is also the site of the ongoing murder and racketeering trial
of mob boss James "Whitey" Bulger, now in its fifth week.

Police set a line of metal barriers around the front of the fog-shrouded
waterfront building, and uniformed officers with dogs were patrolling its
perimeter. In addition to well over a dozen police cars and trucks, a Boston
Police boat was moored close to the building's side entrance - the normal entry
point for suspects in custody.

The hearing is due to be brief, with Conrad perhaps entering a not guilty plea
on his behalf, Prince said.

Conrad did not respond to a request for comment.

According to court papers, Tsarnaev scrawled a note on an inside wall and beams
of the boat in which he hid.

'The U.S. Government is killing our innocent civilians,' the note read,
according to court papers. 'We Muslims are one body, you hurt one you hurt us
all.'

'Now I don't like killing innocent people it is forbidden in Islam but due to
said it is allowed,' he wrote, according to court papers. 'Stop killing our
innocent people and we will stop.'

Tsarnaev was badly wounded during the gun battle and arrest. After initially
being confined at a city hospital, he was moved to a prison west of Boston.
Prosecutors have declined to comment on his current condition or if he is still
being held at the Fort Devens, Massachusetts, facility.

The Tsarnaev brothers' ethnic homeland of Chechnya, a mainly Muslim area that
saw centuries of war and repression, no longer threatens to secede from Russia.
But it has become a breeding ground for a form of militant Islam whose adherents
have spread violence to other parts of Russia.

Three people died in the April 15 bombing - 29-year-old restaurant manager
Krystle Campbell, 23-year-old graduate student Lingzi Lu and 8-year-old Martin
Richard.

Three days later the Tsarnaevs shot dead Massachusetts Institute of Technology
police officer Sean Collier, according to the indictment.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 10, 2013 Wednesday 6:24 PM GMT

Dzhokar Tsarnaev's motorcade arrives to Boston courthouse where he'll face
terror attack victims for first time

BYLINE: PAUL THOMPSON, REUTERS REPORTER and AP REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 931 words



     ·    Wednesday's court appearance marks the 19-year-old's first public
          appearance since the April 15 explosion that killed three and injured
          264 others
     ·    Heavy security surrounds the federal courthouse, the same where the
          Whitey Bulger mob boss trial is in its fifth week
     ·    Survivors and their families will watch as Tsarnaev is arraigned
     ·    The teenage ethnic Chechen is charged with using a weapon of mass
          destruction and could face the death penalty


Four hours before his first hearing, accused Boston bomber Dzhokar Tsarnaev
arrived at the courthouse in a four-vehicle motorcade that included a van, a
Humvee and a state police car.

Survivors of the Boston Marathon bombing will watch as the young man who could
face the death penalty for the attack appears in court for the first time since
he was found bleeding and hiding in a boat in a suburb days after the April 15
explosion.

Tsarnaev is to make his first appearance since the April terror attack in which
he is accused of killing three and injuring 264 others.

A huge police presence will be in force and the courthouse jammed for Tsarnaev's
appearance.

A spokeswoman for the U.S. attorney's office said space is being reserved in the
main courtroom for victims' families, but she wouldn't indicate how many planned
to attend. Court officials have set aside an overflow courtroom to broadcast the
hearing for the media.

The 30-count indictment against Tsarnaev includes 17 charges carrying the death
penalty or life imprisonment. Aside from bombing-related counts, it also
contains charges covering the slaying of a police officer and the carjacking of
a motorist during the getaway attempt that left Tsarnaev's older brother,
Tamerlan, dead.

The mother of one of the victims said she wanted to stare down 'the face of
evil' and will be in court.

Liz Norden, whose two sons lost a leg each, said: 'It has been incredibly hard
to accept what happened to my boys.'

'I'm angry. I want to be there.'

Others who survived the two bombs exploding at the finishing line in April are
expected to be in court.

A group of about a dozen Tsarnaev supporters cheered as the motorcade arrived.
The demonstrators yelled 'Justice for Jahar,' as Tsarnaev is known. One woman
held a sign that said, 'Free Jahar.'

Lacey Buckley, 23, said she traveled from her home in Wenatchee, Wash., to
attend the arraignment. Buckley said she has never met Tsarnaev but came because
she believes he's innocent. 'I just think so many of his rights were violated.
They almost murdered an unarmed kid in a boat,' she said.

Brittney Gillis, a student at the University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth, where
Tsarnaev attended, came to the courthouse because she wanted to see the suspect.
She said he used to walk her friend home in the evenings because he was worried
about her being alone.

'He would walk her from the campus library to her dorm at night,' she said.

Tsarnaev faces three murder charges from the bombing and a fourth from killing a
police officer who was shot before the teen and his elder brother engaged in a
gun battle before being captured.

It was the worst mass-casualty attack on U.S. soil since September 11, 2001 and
could bring a sentence of the death penalty.

The biggest challenge for Tsarnaev's attorney, public defender Miriam Conrad,
will be sparing him the death penalty, one observer said.

'I suspect that Miriam will start tomorrow by trying to change his image and
make him look like the normal, average, clean-cut young kid,' Walter Prince, a
former federal prosecutor in Boston who is now a partner with the law firm
Prince Lobel told Reuters.

Security was tighter than usual on Wednesday outside Boston's U.S. District
Courthouse, which is also the site of the ongoing murder and racketeering trial
of mob boss James "Whitey" Bulger, now in its fifth week.

Police set a line of metal barriers around the front of the fog-shrouded
waterfront building, and uniformed officers with dogs were patrolling its
perimeter. In addition to well over a dozen police cars and trucks, a Boston
Police boat was moored close to the building's side entrance - the normal entry
point for suspects in custody.

The hearing is due to be brief, with Conrad perhaps entering a not guilty plea
on his behalf, Prince said.

Conrad did not respond to a request for comment.

According to court papers, Tsarnaev scrawled a note on an inside wall and beams
of the boat in which he hid.

'The U.S. Government is killing our innocent civilians,' the note read,
according to court papers. 'We Muslims are one body, you hurt one you hurt us
all.'

'Now I don't like killing innocent people it is forbidden in Islam but due to
said it is allowed,' he wrote, according to court papers. 'Stop killing our
innocent people and we will stop.'

Tsarnaev was badly wounded during the gun battle and arrest. After initially
being confined at a city hospital, he was moved to a prison west of Boston.
Prosecutors have declined to comment on his current condition or if he is still
being held at the Fort Devens, Massachusetts, facility.

The Tsarnaev brothers' ethnic homeland of Chechnya, a mainly Muslim area that
saw centuries of war and repression, no longer threatens to secede from Russia.
But it has become a breeding ground for a form of militant Islam whose adherents
have spread violence to other parts of Russia.

Three people died in the April 15 bombing - 29-year-old restaurant manager
Krystle Campbell, 23-year-old graduate student Lingzi Lu and 8-year-old Martin
Richard.

Three days later the Tsarnaevs shot dead Massachusetts Institute of Technology
police officer Sean Collier, according to the indictment.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 10, 2013 Wednesday 5:57 PM GMT

Dzhokar Tsarnaev's motorcade arrives to Boston courthouse where he'll face
terror attack victims for first time

BYLINE: PAUL THOMPSON, REUTERS REPORTER and AP REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 829 words



     ·    Wednesday's court appearance marks the 19-year-old's first public
          appearance since the April 15 explosion that killed three and injured
          264 others


Four hours before his first hearing, accused Boston bomber Dzhokar Tsarnaev
arrived at the courthouse in a four-vehicle motorcade that included a van, a
Humvee and a state police car.

Survivors of the Boston Marathon bombing will watch as the young man who could
face the death penalty for the attack appears in court for the first time since
he was found bleeding and hiding in a boat in a suburb days after the April 15
explosion.

Tsarnaev is to make his first appearance since the April terror attack in which
he is accused of killing three and injuring 264 others.

A huge police presence will be in force and the courthouse jammed for Tsarnaev's
appearance.

A spokeswoman for the U.S. attorney's office said space is being reserved in the
main courtroom for victims' families, but she wouldn't indicate how many planned
to attend. Court officials have set aside an overflow courtroom to broadcast the
hearing for the media.

The mother of one of the victims said she wanted to stare down 'the face of
evil' and will be in court.

Liz Norden, whose two sons lost a leg each, said: 'It has been incredibly hard
to accept what happened to my boys.'

'I'm angry. I want to be there.'

Others who survived the two bombs exploding at the finishing line in April are
expected to be in court.

A group of about a dozen Tsarnaev supporters cheered as the motorcade arrived.
The demonstrators yelled 'Justice for Jahar,' as Tsarnaev is known. One woman
held a sign that said, 'Free Jahar.'

Lacey Buckley, 23, said she traveled from her home in Wenatchee, Wash., to
attend the arraignment. Buckley said she has never met Tsarnaev but came because
she believes he's innocent. 'I just think so many of his rights were violated.
They almost murdered an unarmed kid in a boat,' she said.

Brittney Gillis, a student at the University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth, where
Tsarnaev attended, came to the courthouse because she wanted to see the suspect.
She said he used to walk her friend home in the evenings because he was worried
about her being alone.

'He would walk her from the campus library to her dorm at night,' she said.

Tsarnaev faces three murder charges from the bombing and a fourth from killing a
police officer who was shot before the teen and his elder brother engaged in a
gun battle before being captured.

It was the worst mass-casualty attack on U.S. soil since September 11, 2001 and
could bring a sentence of the death penalty.

The biggest challenge for Tsarnaev's attorney, public defender Miriam Conrad,
will be sparing him the death penalty, one observer said.

'I suspect that Miriam will start tomorrow by trying to change his image and
make him look like the normal, average, clean-cut young kid,' Walter Prince, a
former federal prosecutor in Boston who is now a partner with the law firm
Prince Lobel told Reuters.

Security was tighter than usual on Wednesday outside Boston's U.S. District
Courthouse, which is also the site of the ongoing murder and racketeering trial
of mob boss James "Whitey" Bulger, now in its fifth week.

Police set a line of metal barriers around the front of the fog-shrouded
waterfront building, and uniformed officers with dogs were patrolling its
perimeter. In addition to well over a dozen police cars and trucks, a Boston
Police boat was moored close to the building's side entrance - the normal entry
point for suspects in custody.

The hearing is due to be brief, with Conrad perhaps entering a not guilty plea
on his behalf, Prince said.

Conrad did not respond to a request for comment.

According to court papers, Tsarnaev scrawled a note on an inside wall and beams
of the boat in which he hid.

'The U.S. Government is killing our innocent civilians,' the note read,
according to court papers. 'We Muslims are one body, you hurt one you hurt us
all.'

'Now I don't like killing innocent people it is forbidden in Islam but due to
said it is allowed,' he wrote, according to court papers. 'Stop killing our
innocent people and we will stop.'

Tsarnaev was badly wounded during the gun battle and arrest. After initially
being confined at a city hospital, he was moved to a prison west of Boston.
Prosecutors have declined to comment on his current condition or if he is still
being held at the Fort Devens, Massachusetts, facility.

The Tsarnaev brothers' ethnic homeland of Chechnya, a mainly Muslim area that
saw centuries of war and repression, no longer threatens to secede from Russia.
But it has become a breeding ground for a form of militant Islam whose adherents
have spread violence to other parts of Russia.

Three people died in the April 15 bombing - 29-year-old restaurant manager
Krystle Campbell, 23-year-old graduate student Lingzi Lu and 8-year-old Martin
Richard.

Three days later the Tsarnaevs shot dead Massachusetts Institute of Technology
police officer Sean Collier, according to the indictment.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 10, 2013 Wednesday 5:43 PM GMT

Dzhokar Tsarnaev's motorcade arrives to Boston courthouse where he'll face
terror attack victims for first time

BYLINE: PAUL THOMPSON, REUTERS REPORTER and AP REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 668 words


Four hours before his first hearing, accused Boston bomber Dzhokar Tsarnaev
arrived at the courthouse in a four-vehicle motorcade that included a van, a
Humvee and a state police car.

Survivors of the Boston Marathon bombing will watch as the young man who could
face the death penalty for the attack appears in court for the first time since
he was found bleeding and hiding in a boat in a suburb days after the April 15
explosion.

Tsarnaev is to make his first appearance since the April terror attack in which
he is accused of killing three and injuring 264 others.

A huge police presence will be in force and the courthouse jammed for Tsarnaev's
appearance.

A spokeswoman for the U.S. attorney's office said space is being reserved in the
main courtroom for victims' families, but she wouldn't indicate how many planned
to attend. Court officials have set aside an overflow courtroom to broadcast the
hearing for the media.

The mother of one of the victims said she wanted to stare down 'the face of
evil' and will be in court.

Liz Norden, whose two sons lost a leg each, said: 'It has been incredibly hard
to accept what happened to my boys.'

'I'm angry. I want to be there.'

Others who survived the two bombs exploding at the finishing line in April are
expected to be in court.

Tsarnaev faces three murder charges from the bombing and a fourth from killing a
police officer who was shot before the teen and his elder brother engaged in a
gun battle before being captured.

It was the worst mass-casualty attack on U.S. soil since September 11, 2001 and
could bring a sentence of the death penalty.

The biggest challenge for Tsarnaev's attorney, public defender Miriam Conrad,
will be sparing him the death penalty, one observer said.

'I suspect that Miriam will start tomorrow by trying to change his image and
make him look like the normal, average, clean-cut young kid,' Walter Prince, a
former federal prosecutor in Boston who is now a partner with the law firm
Prince Lobel told Reuters.

Security was tighter than usual on Wednesday outside Boston's U.S. District
Courthouse, which is also the site of the ongoing murder and racketeering trial
of mob boss James "Whitey" Bulger, now in its fifth week.

Police set a line of metal barriers around the front of the fog-shrouded
waterfront building, and uniformed officers with dogs were patrolling its
perimeter. In addition to well over a dozen police cars and trucks, a Boston
Police boat was moored close to the building's side entrance - the normal entry
point for suspects in custody.

The hearing is due to be brief, with Conrad perhaps entering a not guilty plea
on his behalf, Prince said.

Conrad did not respond to a request for comment.

According to court papers, Tsarnaev scrawled a note on an inside wall and beams
of the boat in which he hid.

'The U.S. Government is killing our innocent civilians,' the note read,
according to court papers. 'We Muslims are one body, you hurt one you hurt us
all.'

'Now I don't like killing innocent people it is forbidden in Islam but due to
said it is allowed,' he wrote, according to court papers. 'Stop killing our
innocent people and we will stop.'

Tsarnaev was badly wounded during the gun battle and arrest. After initially
being confined at a city hospital, he was moved to a prison west of Boston.
Prosecutors have declined to comment on his current condition or if he is still
being held at the Fort Devens, Massachusetts, facility.

The Tsarnaev brothers' ethnic homeland of Chechnya, a mainly Muslim area that
saw centuries of war and repression, no longer threatens to secede from Russia.
But it has become a breeding ground for a form of militant Islam whose adherents
have spread violence to other parts of Russia.

Three people died in the April 15 bombing - 29-year-old restaurant manager
Krystle Campbell, 23-year-old graduate student Lingzi Lu and 8-year-old Martin
Richard.

Three days later the Tsarnaevs shot dead Massachusetts Institute of Technology
police officer Sean Collier, according to the indictment.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 10, 2013 Wednesday 11:05 AM GMT

Boston bomber to come face to face with victims of the terror attacks in his
first court hearing today

BYLINE: PAUL THOMPSON and REUTERS REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 506 words


The alleged Boston bomber is to come face to face with some of his victims when
he makes his first court appearance today.

Dzhokar Tsarnaev, 19, is to make his first appearance since the April terror
attack in which he is accused of killing three and injuring 264 others.

A huge police presence will be in force at the courthouse in Boston for
Tsarnaev's appearance.

The mother of one of the victims said she wanted to stare down 'the face of
evil' and will be in court.

Liz Norden, whose two sons lost a leg each, said: 'It has been incredibly hard
to accept what happened to my boys.'

'I'm angry. I want to be there.'

Others who survived the two bombs exploding at the finishing line in April are
expected to be in court.

Tsarnaev faces three murder charges from the bombing and a fourth from killing a
police officer who was shot before the teen and his elder brother engaged in a
gun battle before being captured.

It was the worst mass-casualty attack on U.S. soil since September 11, 2001 and
could bring a sentence of the death penalty.

The biggest challenge for Tsarnaev's attorney, public defender Miriam Conrad,
will be sparing him the death penalty, one observer said.

'I suspect that Miriam will start tomorrow by trying to change his image and
make him look like the normal, average, clean-cut young kid,' Walter Prince, a
former federal prosecutor in Boston who is now a partner with the law firm
Prince Lobel told Reuters.

Tsarnaev will appear at U.S. District Court in Boston - the same building where
mobster James 'Whitey' Bulger is currently on trial.

The hearing is due to be brief, with Conrad perhaps entering a not guilty plea
on his behalf, Prince said.

Conrad did not respond to a request for comment.

According to court papers, Tsarnaev scrawled a note on an inside wall and beams
of the boat in which he hid.

'The U.S. Government is killing our innocent civilians,' the note read,
according to court papers. 'We Muslims are one body, you hurt one you hurt us
all.'

'Now I don't like killing innocent people it is forbidden in Islam but due to
said it is allowed,' he wrote, according to court papers. 'Stop killing our
innocent people and we will stop.'

Tsarnaev was badly wounded during the gun battle and arrest. After initially
being confined at a city hospital, he was moved to a prison west of Boston.
Prosecutors have declined to comment on his current condition or if he is still
being held at the Fort Devens, Massachusetts, facility.

The Tsarnaev brothers' ethnic homeland of Chechnya, a mainly Muslim area that
saw centuries of war and repression, no longer threatens to secede from Russia.
But it has become a breeding ground for a form of militant Islam whose adherents
have spread violence to other parts of Russia.

Three people died in the April 15 bombing - 29-year-old restaurant manager
Krystle Campbell, 23-year-old graduate student Lingzi Lu and 8-year-old Martin
Richard.

Three days later the Tsarnaevs shot dead Massachusetts Institute of Technology
police officer Sean Collier, according to the indictment.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      July 10, 2013 Wednesday 8:18 PM GMT

Giuliani says political correctness hampering anti-terror efforts as 'Boston
bomber' appears in court;
Rudi Giuliani, the mayor of New York at the time of the September 11 attacks,
has questioned whether a culture of "political correctness" towards the Islamist
terror threat had blunted efforts to stop homegrown terror attacks like the
Boston marathon bombings.

BYLINE: By Peter Foster in Washington and Jon Swaine in Boston

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 648 words


Speaking hours before Dzhohkar Tsarnaev - the alleged surviving Boston bomber -
was arraigned in court, Mr Giuliani took aim at the Obama administration for
creating a climate that had made US security agencies over-cautious about
pursing potential Islamist threats.

"You can't fight an enemy you don't acknowledge," Mr Giuliani told the House
Homeland Security Committee enquiry into the intelligence failures that lead to
the Boston bombs.

"In order to confront this threat effectively, we have to purge ourselves of the
practice of political correctness when it goes so far that it interferes with
our rational and intellectually honest analysis of the identifying
characteristics that help us to discover these killers in advance."

In the days immediately following the Boston attacks, Barack Obama was attacked
by the Right for his reluctance to call out the bombings as the work of Islamist
terrorists - a sign, they charged, of the president's excessive caution on the
issue.

Mr Obama announced in a landmark speech last May that the fight against the core
of al-Qaeda was now won and the battle against jihadist terrorism should return
to a pre-9/11 footing, a narrative that is contested by many Republicans who
warn that the threat from homegrown jihadists is growing.

Mr Giuliani, who was briefly a Republican presidential contender in 2008, said
he believed that the FBI's failure to track the older Tsarnaev brother,
Tamerlan, despite his return to his native Dagestan, a known centre of jihadism,
might have been caused by over-caution on civil liberty and religious issues.

"The fear of incorrectly identifying (Tamerlan) Tsarnaev as a suspected Muslim
extremist might have played a role in not taking all the steps that seemed
prudent given his suspicious behavior," he said, "He obviously wasn't going back
to listen to the Moscow symphony."

Mr Giuliani's intervention came as Mr Tsarnaev arrived at the city's federal
court house for his first appearance in public since the deadly blasts almost
three months ago.

In front of a public gallery packed with his alleged victims, Mr Tsarnaev, 19,
was due to be read the charges against him for the bombing and expected to enter
a plea of not guilty.

On a stuffy day in Boston, Mr Tsarnaev arrived at court four hours before his
afternoon hearing in a four-vehicle police motorcade.

He has been charged with using a weapon of mass destruction , which killed three
people and wounded more than 260, as well as killing a police officer during the
frenzied last stand he mounted with his older brother Tamerlan.

Some 17 of the federal charges against him carry a potential death penalty.

If convicted and sentenced to death, Mr Tsarnaev would the first person executed
in Massachusetts for 66 years.

Amid heightened security, armed police and sniffer dogs yesterday surrounded the
court house, which sits beside a harbour on the city's Atlantic coast.

Almost all the seats inside the courtroom were reserved for victims of the
bombings and their relatives, with an overflow room provided in anticipation of
mass attendance by those given their first opportunity to come face to face with
the bomber.

Dozens of television cameras from the world's media were trained on the entrance
to the court, in hopes of capturing a glimpse of some of those injured in the
attack who had braved the visit to Mr Tsarnaev's arraignment.

However, several victims said they did not intend to be at the hearing and
planned instead to focus on the damage inflicted on them.

Relatives of Martin Richard, who at eight was the youngest person killed in the
attack, were planning to stay away, a spokesman said yesterday.

"The Richard family remains focused on healing and recovery, which has been an
ongoing process for all of them," he said.

Martin's seven-year-old sister, Jane, lost a leg in the blast and their mother,
Denise, lost the use of one eye.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 11, 2013 Thursday 7:14 PM GMT

Vacuum cleaners and Harry Potter: How the CIA 'un-tortured' 9/11 bomber, Khalid
Sheikh Mohammed;
Revealed: The extraordinary extent of efforts to rehabilitate mastermind behind
terror attacks

BYLINE: Rupert Cornwell

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 510 words


Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the self-confessed mastermind of the 9/11 attacks, was
brutally interrogated countless times by the CIA following his capture in 2003.
But while the methods the CIA used to break down their prisoner were well-worn,
the way in which they pieced him back together was not. They did so by allowing
one of the world's most feared terrorists to design his own vacuum cleaner.

Mohammed's interest in the topic, according to an extraordinary tale pieced
together by the Associated Press, seems to have begun in the basement of a CIA
secret prison in Romania, where he had been transferred after being tortured
(including being waterboarded no less than 183 times) at a similar site in
Poland, following his capture in Pakistan.

In his new jail, Mohammed - who in more innocent days took a degree in
mechanical engineering at a US university - asked his captors a strange favour:
would they let him design a vacuum cleaner? And the word from CIA headquarters
in Langley, Virginia, was, yes.

Having extracted a confession and everything else it could by duress, the
agency's priority now was to keep their star prisoner sane. Perhaps in calmer
circumstances he might have further, less time-sensitive information to divulge.
And who could say, he might even one day testify at a trial, at which he would
need to appear a credible and uncoerced witness.

In other words, his handlers had to repair the psychological damage inflicted by
the waterboarding and other "enhanced interrogation techniques" to which he was
subjected immediately after being captured. Apparently they succeeded, for
military records at Guantanamo suggest Mohammed is in good health.

To get Mohammed back to something near normal, the CIA used a variety of carrots
once it had moved him to the new facility near Bucharest, code-named
"Britelite". One was the permission to design a vacuum cleaner, with the aid of
blueprints from the internet. Another was Snickers chocolate bars, doled out as
rewards for tit-bits of information about his former employers, al-Qa'ida.

The architect of the World Trade Center attacks apparently also enjoyed the
Harry Potter books. Gradually, his self-esteem grew. Britelite had a debriefing
room where Mohammed held what he liked to call "office hours," lecturing his
captors about his childhood, his family and his path to jihad and al-Qa'ida. Tea
and biscuits were served at these occasions.

But details of a Khalid Sheikh Mohammed domestic appliance are shrouded in
mystery.

After the Romanian prison was closed in 2006, Mohammed was transferred to
Guantanamo Bay, and Jason Wright, his current military lawyer told AP he was not
allowed to discuss the matter: "It sounds ridiculous, but confirming or denying
the very existence of a vacuum cleaner design.... would apparently expose US
citizens to exceptionally grave danger."

The CIA was no more forthcoming. In a letter to the AP, it said that such
records, "should they exist," would be among the agency's operational files, a
top-secret category exempt from ever being released to the public.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 11, 2013 Thursday 10:32 AM GMT

'I would rather see him suffer - Death is too quick': Fury of Boston bomber's
victims as 'smirking and yawning' teenage suspect pleads NOT GUILTY to terror
attack as he appears in court for first time

BYLINE: PAUL THOMPSON and JOSHUA GARDNER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2476 words



     ·    Boston marathon victims and their families were outraged at the
          disinterested first court appearance of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19 on
          Wednesday
     ·    The dramatic plea hearing marked the 19-year-old's first public
          appearance since the April 15th terror attacks that killed three and
          injured 264 others
     ·    Heavy security surrounded the federal courthouse
     ·    Including a guard of honor for MIT Police Officer Sean Collier - who
          was allegedly gunned down by Dzhokhar and his older brother Tamerlan
     ·    Survivors and their families watched as Tsarnaev denied all 30 charges
     ·    A dozen supporters appeared along with victims and their families in
          the gallery
     ·    The teenage ethnic Chechen could face the death penalty


Disgusted victims of the Boston marathon terror attacks unleashed their fury at
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev on Wednesday, as the teenage suspect pleaded not guilty to all
charges against him.

They spoke outside a federal courthouse in the city rocked by the April 15th
atrocity which left three people dead and more than 260 wounded and where
Tsarnaev made his first fleeting appearance in public since being apprehended.

Dismayed by his demeanor inside the court-room, the 'smirking' and 'yawning'
teenager left them outraged as he seemed disinterested during the brief
proceeding, where he smiled crookedly and at times nonchalantly stroked his
chin.

Scroll down for videos

'I'd rather see him suffer, Death is too quick.' said Mildred Valverde, 44, who
left the court with the aid of crutches, still recovering three months after
Tsarnaev and his older brother Tamerlan allegedly detonated two pressure cooker
devices at the finishing line of the Boston marathon.

'Just to be in the same room with him was bothersome, ' added Valverde to  NBC
News, who said that it is her hope that if Tsarnaev is convicted he doesn't face
the death penalty - but rather rots in jail.

Valverde suffered torn ligaments as well as concussion in the attack and
described the entire affair on Wednesday as 'kind of eerie, kind of upsetting.'

The proceedings took place in a heavily guarded courtroom packed with about 30
victims and their families, police officers, and members of the public glaring
at the teenager who looked every inch his 19-years.

As survivors of the bombing looked on, Tsarnaev, 19, gave a small, lopsided
smile to his two sisters upon arriving in the courtroom.

'He came out and he smirked at the families,' said Ed Fucarile, 64, outside of
the John Joseph Moakley federal courthouse.

'The lawyers put their hands on his shoulders like it was going to be all
right,' added Fucarile, whose son, Marc, 34, was seriously injured in the twin
blasts.

Leaning into the microphone, he told a federal judge, 'Not guilty' in a strong
Russian accent and said it over and over as the charges were read. Then he was
led away in handcuffs, making a kissing gesture toward his family with his lips.

'I expected a lot more,' said Fucarile, 64, of Tsarnaev's eight-minute hearing
on Wednesday. 'It wasn't what I thought it was going to be.'

Karen Brassard, 51, had her right ankle and leg injured in the Boston marathon
attacks.

Her daughter and husband were also hurt as well as a friend who lost both their
legs.

She wavers daily about what fate the teenage suspect should receive: "It depends
on the minute; it depends on the day. I have mixed emotions,' she said to
Bloomberg after attending Tsarnaev's plea hearing.

'I get angry, but I also think he's just a kid.'

Tsarnaev is charged with killing three people and injuring about 264 others by
setting off homemade bombs - pressure-cookers filled with explosives, nails and
ball bearings - assembled by him and his older brother, Tamerlan.

Prosecutors say the brothers placed backpacks containing the bombs among the
spectators near the finish line of the race on April 15th.

Martin Richard, 8; Krystle Marie Campbell, 29; and Lingzi Lu, 23 were killed by
the bombs - the worst terror attack on U.S. soil since 9/11.

Several days later, in the suburb of Watertown, the brother were involved in a
massive gunfight during which 26-year-old Tamerlan Tsarnaev died after his
brother ran over him with car as he escaped.

The ensuing manhunt resulted in a day-long lock-down of most of the Boston area
until Dzhokhar was found, badly wounded, hiding in a boat in a backyard.

Tsarnaev, who has been hospitalized since his capture faces 30 federal charges,
17 of which carry the death penalty.

The final decision on that controversial issue will be down to Attorney General
Eric Holder, the Obama administration confirmed.

Hours prior to the frenzied gun battle in Watertown that led to Tamerlan's death
and Dzhokhar's capture Sean Collier, 27, an officer with the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology police department was allegedly shot dead in his patrol
car by the Tsarnaev brothers.

Speaking outside the court today, his superior officer MIT Police Chief John
DiFava pulled no punches with his opinion on the naturalized U.S. Citizen.

'I'd like to grab him by the throat,' said DiFava who claimed he was 'disgusted'
with the 'smug' Tsarnaev during the eight minute long proceedings.

'I didn't see a lot of remorse. I didn't see a lot of regret,' he said to
theBoston Globe. 'It just seemed to me that if I was in that position, I would
have been a lot more nervous, certainly scared.'

DiFava added: 'I just wanted to see him. I wanted to see the person that so
coldly and callously killed four people, one of whom being an officer of mine.'

'The man deserves to die if he's found guilty.'

Tsarnaev is also charged in the shooting death of 27-year-old police officer
Sean Collier.

Indeed, almost two dozen representatives of the MIT campus police department
arrived at the courthouse before the hearing and remained outside, in uniform
and standing to attention, until after it was over.

One friend of Officer Collier told ABC Newsthat they 'were there to represent
the police officer that was killed, and the one that was gravely wounded.'

The disheveled teenager was dressed in an orange jump suit, with his arm in a
cast as he was led into the court in chains by a police officer in black gloves.

The Russian immigrant and former college student looked much as he did in a
photo widely circulated after his arrest, his hair curly and unkempt and he
appeared nonchalant, almost bored, during the hearing.

It had been unclear what the teen's current condition was until those in the
audience saw Tsarnaev.

Previously at the brink of death following a bloody shootout with police,
Tsarnaev was able to stand in the courtroom and enter his pleas.

In an obvious Russian accent, he repeated into a microphone seven times: 'Not
guilty.'

Some called his attitude 'cocky' as he entered, saying he had a little smirk on
his face.

His hair was long and unruly, his left arm in a cast and jumpsuit, unbuttoned to
the waist, revealed a black T-shirt underneath. There was a visible scar just
below his throat.

He fidgeted, scratched his face and looked around the courtroom, watching
prosecutors as they spoke and occasionally looking back at about 30 survivors of
the attack and victims' families.

As survivors of the bombing looked on, Tsarnaev, 19, gave a small, lopsided
smile to his two sisters upon arriving in the courtroom - sparking them into
tears.

Tsarnaev continued to peer back at his now sobbing sisters as one eye drooped.
Half his face appeared swollen.

'He didn't seem too shaken up by this. He didn't seem affected one bit, but I'm
not a mind reader,' said DiFava.

Among the family of the injured was Liz Norden, whose two sons lost a leg each.

'It has been incredibly hard to accept what happened to my boys,' Norden siad.
'I'm angry. I want to be there.'

She said she wanted to stare down 'the face of evil.'

'I actually felt sick to my stomach,' Norden said afterward.'I am angry.'

'Hearing his sister cry made me angry,' she explained outside the courtroom.
'Look at what he caused. How dare they cry and look at what he did to all these
people.'

'They should come to my house and see real suffering,' Norden told ABC News.
'They should see how my sons are in pain every day, how our lives have been
turned completely upside down.'

One of Tsarnaev's attorneys, Judy Clarke, asked that Tsarnaev enter a blanket
not guilty plea.

To this, Judge Marianne Bowler responded from the bench: 'I would like him to
answer.'

Clarke is something of an enigma. The California-based defense attorney emerges
only now and again and always to argue against death sentences as she did for
Unabomber Ted Kaczynski and other reviled criminals.

Clark's hand remained on her young clients back for much of the proceedings.

On Wednesday, Tsarnaev's mother, Zubeidat Tsarnaeva, told ABC News that everyone
is only angry with her son because they know he is innocent.

Speaking from her home in Makhachkala, the capital of Dagestan, Zubeidat said
that she and her husband will be watching the trial from home and that she
believes her son was framed.

'His fate is in Allah's hands,' she told ABC News before the hearing

The biggest challenge for Tsarnaev's attorney, public defender Miriam Conrad,
will be sparing him the death penalty, observers said.

Security was tighter than usual on Wednesday outside Boston's U.S. District
Courthouse, which is also the site of the ongoing murder and racketeering trial
of mob boss James "Whitey" Bulger, now in its fifth week.

MIT Police Chief John DiFava: "I'd like to grab him by the throat. He's not
worth a tear" of #Tsarneav

- David Abel (@davabel) July 10, 2013

#Tsarnaev seems almost disinterested. He is not sitting straight. He is now
handcuffed. he blows kiss to woman w/baby who sobs

- Deborah Feyerick (@DebFeyerickCNN) July 10, 2013

#Tsarnaev 's left eye appeared to be droopy and swollen, and he yawned several
times throughout the proceedings.

- David Abel (@davabel) July 10, 2013

Prosecutors William Weinreb, Aloke Chak Ravarty, and Nadine Pellegrini said they
intend to call between 80 and 100 witnesses to the stand over the course of a
trial they said will likely last three to four months.

On the same day as the arraignment, Boston's police commissioner appeared on
Capitol Hill and complained to a Senate panel that the Justice Department failed
to share information on terrorism threats with local officials before the
bombing.

'There is a gap with information sharing at a higher level while there are still
opportunities to intervene in the planning of these terrorist events,'
Commissioner Edward F. Davis III said.

Reporters and spectators began lining up for seats in the courtroom at 7:30 a.m.
as a dozen Federal Protective Service officers and bomb-sniffing dogs surrounded
the courthouse. Four hours before the 3:30 p.m. hearing, the defendant arrived
at the courthouse in a four-vehicle motorcade.

About a dozen Tsarnaev supporters cheered as the motorcade arrived. The
demonstrators yelled, 'Justice for Jahar!' as Tsarnaev is known. One woman held
a sign that said, 'Free Jahar.'

Lacey Buckley said she traveled from her home in Wenatchee, Wash., to attend the
arraignment. She said she believes he is innocent. 'I just think so many of his
rights were violated. They almost murdered an unarmed kid in a boat,' she said.

Some even made it inside the court to show their support for the teenager.

'It was a little heartbreaking, but Dzhokhar and I have faith in Allah,' said
one supporter, Mary Churbuck, who wore a shirt with Dzhokhar's image and the
slogan 'Free the Lion.'

'He's rolling with the punches,' Churbuck said. 'There's no evidence that he did
do it. They don't have any evidence of him putting his backpack down.'

"I see zero evidence to say he actually did this," added Lacey Buckley, 23, of
Washington state. "There is no DNA; there are no fingerprints. They got
nothing."  - See more at:
http://bostonherald.com/news_opinion/local_coverage/2013/07/dzhokhar_tsarnaev_pl
eads_not_guilty_to_marathon_blasts#sthash.t8iX0Z5a.dpuf"I see zero evidence to
say he actually did this," added Lacey Buckley, 23, of Washington state. "There
is no DNA; there are no fingerprints. They got nothing."  - See more at:
http://bostonherald.com/news_opinion/local_coverage/2013/07/dzhokhar_tsarnaev_pl
eads_not_guilty_to_marathon_blasts#sthash.t8iX0Z5a.dpuf

A group of friends who were on the high school wrestling team with Tsarnaev at
Cambridge Rindge and Latin waited in line for hours, hoping to get a seat.

One of them, Hank Alvarez, said Tsarnaev was calm, peaceful and apolitical in
high school.

'Just knowing him, it's hard for me to face the fact that he did it,' said
Alvarez, 19, of Cambridge.

'FREE JAHAR!': CONSPIRACY THEORISTS AND SUPPORTERS GATHER OUTSIDE ARRAIGNMENT OF
ALLEGED BOSTON BOMBER DZHOKAR TSARNAEV

Around a dozen supporters of accused Boston Marathon bomber, 19-year-old Dzhokar
Tsarnaev, were among those gathered outside John Joseph Moakley United States
Courthouse in South Boston awaiting his arraignment hearing and first public
appearance since the April 15 bombings that killed three and left many more
injured.

One woman held a sign that said, 'Free Jahar.'

Jennifer Michio wore a shirt bearing the teen's likeness and the words, 'Dzhokar
Tsarnaev Is Innocent.'

The supporters and protesters represented a cross-section of beliefs.

Several of Tsarnaev's high school wrestling teammates were in attendance and
weren't sure what to make of the accusations.

Another man, with no apparent personal connection to Tsarnaev, held a sign
proclaiming 'Boston was a false flag,' among other declarations.

Lacey Buckley, 23, said she traveled from her home in Wenatchee, Wash., to
attend the arraignment. Buckley said she has never met Tsarnaev but came because
she believes he's innocent.

'I just think so many of his rights were violated,' Buckley said. 'They almost
murdered an unarmed kid in a boat.'

Around 10 or 12 of these supporters wound up inside the court for Wednesday's
proceedings, along with about 30 victims and family of victims.

Brittney Gillis, a student at the University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth, where
Tsarnaev attended, came to the courthouse because she wanted to see the suspect.
She said he used to walk her friend home in the evenings because he was worried
about her being alone.

'He would walk her from the campus library to her dorm at night,' she said.

Read the full text of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's criminal complaint...

According to court papers, Tsarnaev scrawled a note on an inside wall and beams
of the boat in which he hid.

'Now I don't like killing innocent people it is forbidden in Islam but due to
said it is allowed,' he wrote, according to court papers. 'Stop killing our
innocent people and we will stop.'

'The U.S. Government is killing our innocent civilians,' the note read,
according to the papers. 'We Muslims are one body, you hurt one you hurt us
all.'

'

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 11, 2013 Thursday 5:57 AM GMT

'I would rather see him suffer - Death is too quick': Fury of Boston bomber's
victims as 'smirking and yawning' teenage suspect pleads NOT GUILTY to terror
attack as he appears in court for first time

BYLINE: PAUL THOMPSON, REUTERS REPORTER and AP REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2245 words



     ·    Wednesday's court appearance marked the 19-year-old's first public
          appearance since the April 15 explosion that killed three and injured
          264 others
     ·    Heavy security surrounded the federal courthouse, the same where the
          Whitey Bulger mob boss trial is in its fifth week
     ·    Survivors and their families watched as Tsarnaev denied all 30 charges
     ·    A dozen supporters appeared along with victims and their families in
          the gallery
     ·    The teenage ethnic Chechen could face the death penalty


Disgusted victims of the Boston marathon terror attacks unleashed their fury at
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev on Wednesday, as the teenage suspect pleaded not guilty to all
charges against him.

They spoke outside a federal courthouse in the city rocked by the April 15th
atrocity which left three people dead and more than 260 wounded, where Tsarnaev
made his first fleeting appearance in public since being apprehended.

Dismayed by his demeanor inside the court-room, the 'smirking' and 'yawning'
teenager left them outraged as he seemed disinterested during the brief
proceeding, where he smiled crookedly and at times nonchalantly stroked his
chin.

Scroll Down for Video

'I'd rather see him suffer, Death is too quick.' said Mildred Valverde, who left
the court with the aid of crutches, still recovering three months after Tsarnaev
and his older brother Tamerlan allegedly detonated two pressure cooker devices
at the finishing line of the Boston marathon.

'Just to be in the same room with him was bothersome, ' added Valverde to NBC
News, who said that it is her hope that if Tsarnaev is convicted he doesn't face
the death penalty - but rather rots in jail.

Valverde suffered torn ligaments as well as concussion at the finishing line and
described the entire affair on Wednesday as 'kind of eerie, kind of upsetting.'

The proceedings took place in a heavily guarded courtroom packed with about 30
victims and their families, police officers, and members of the public glaring
at the teenager who looked every inch his 19-years.

As survivors of the bombing looked on, Tsarnaev, 19, gave a small, lopsided
smile to his two sisters upon arriving in the courtroom.

'He came out and he smirked at the families,' said Ed Fucarile, 64, outside of
the John Joseph Moakley federal courthouse.

'The lawyers put their hands on his shoulders like it was going to be all
right,' added Fucarile, whose son, Marc, 34, was seriously injured in the twin
blasts.

Leaning into the microphone, he told a federal judge, 'Not guilty' in a strong
Russian accent and said it over and over as the charges were read. Then he was
led away in handcuffs, making a kissing gesture toward his family with his lips.

'I expected a lot more,' said Fucarile, 64, of Tsarnaev's eight-minute hearing
on Wednesday. 'It wasn't what I thought it was going to be.'

Karen Brassard, 51, had her right ankle and leg injured in the Boston marathon
attacks.

Her daughter and husband were also hurt as well as a friend who lost both their
legs.

She wavers daily about what fate the teenage suspect should receive: "It depends
on the minute; it depends on the day. I have mixed emotions,' she said after
attending Tsarnaev's plea hearing.

'I get angry, but I also think he's just a kid.'

Tsarnaev, who has been hospitalized since his capture recovering from wounds
suffered during a dramatic shootout and getaway attempt in Watertown, Boston,
faces 30 federal charges, 17 of which carry the death penalty.

The final decision on that controversial issue will be down to Attorney General
Eric Holder, the Obama administration confirmed.

Hours prior to the frenzied gun battle in Watertown that led to Tamerlan's death
and Dzhokhar's capture Sean Collier, 27, an officer with the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology police department was allegedly shot dead in his patrol
car by the Tsarnaev brothers.

Speaking outside the court today, his superior officer MIT Police Chief John
DiFava pulled no punches with his opinion on the naturalized U.S. Citizen.

'I'd like to grab him by the throat,' said DiFava who said he was 'disgusted'
with the 'smug' Tsarnaev during the eight minute long proceedings.

'I didn't see a lot of remorse. I didn't see a lot of regret,' he said. 'It just
seemed to me that if I was in that position, I would have been a lot more
nervous, certainly scared.'

DiFava added: 'I just wanted to see him. I wanted to see the person that so
coldly and callously killed four people, one of whom being an officer of mine.'

'The man deserves to die if he's found guilty.'

Indeed, almost two dozen representatives of the MIT campus police department
arrived at the courthouse before the hearing and remained outside, in uniform
and standing to attention, until after it was over.

The disheveled teenager was dressed in an orange jump suit, with his arm in a
cast as he was led into the court in chains by a police officer in black gloves.

The Russian immigrant and former college student looked much as he did in a
photo widely circulated after his arrest, his hair curly and unkempt and he
appeared nonchalant, almost bored, during the hearing.

It had been unclear what the teen's current condition was until those in the
audience saw Tsarnaev.

Previously at the brink of death following a bloody shootout with police,
Tsarnaev was able to stand in the courtroom and enter his pleas.

In an obvious Russian accent, he repeated into a microphone seven times: 'Not
guilty.'

Some called his attitude 'cocky' as he entered, saying he had a little smirk on
his face.

His hair was long and unruly, his left arm in a cast and the orange jumpsuit,
unbuttoned to the waist, revealed a black T-shirt underneath.

He fidgeted, scratched his face and looked around the courtroom, watching
prosecutors as they spoke and occasionally looking back at about 30 survivors of
the attack and victims' families.

As survivors of the bombing looked on, Tsarnaev, 19, gave a small, lopsided
smile to his two sisters upon arriving in the courtroom.

Tsarnaev continued to peer back at his now sobbing sisters as one eye drooped.
Half his face appeared swollen.

'He didn't seem too shaken up by this. He didn't seem affected one bit, but I'm
not a mind reader,' said DiFava.

Among the family of the injured was Liz Norden, whose two sons lost a leg each.

'It has been incredibly hard to accept what happened to my boys,' Norden siad.
'I'm angry. I want to be there.'

She said she wanted to stare down 'the face of evil.'

'I actually felt sick to my stomach,' Norden said afterward.'I am angry.'

'Hearing his sister cry made me angry,' she explained outside the courtroom.
'Look at what he caused. How dare they cry and look at what he did to all these
people.'

One of Tsarnaev's attorneys, Judy Clarke, asked that Tsarnaev enter a blanket
not guilty plea.

To this, Judge Marianne Bowler responded from the bench: 'I would like him to
answer.'

Clarke is something of an enigma. The California-based defense attorney emerges
only now and again and always to argue against death sentences as she did for
Unabomber Ted Kaczynski and other reviled criminals.

Clark's hand remained on her young clients back for much of the proceedings.

Around thirty victims and their family members were in the cramped courtroom. A
hush had fallen over them as they awaited Tsarnaev's arrival, but emotions
clearly ran high.

MIT Police Chief John DiFava: "I'd like to grab him by the throat. He's not
worth a tear" of #Tsarneav

- David Abel (@davabel) July 10, 2013

#Tsarnaev seems almost disinterested. He is not sitting straight. He is now
handcuffed. he blows kiss to woman w/baby who sobs

- Deborah Feyerick (@DebFeyerickCNN) July 10, 2013

#Tsarnaev 's left eye appeared to be droopy and swollen, and he yawned several
times throughout the proceedings.

- David Abel (@davabel) July 10, 2013

Prosecutors William Weinreb, Aloke Chak Ravarty, and Nadine Pellegrini said they
intend to call between 80 and 100 witnesses to the stand over the course of a
trial they said will likely last three to four months.

A huge police presence was in force and the courthouse jammed for Tsarnaev's
appearance.

MIT Police Chief John DiFava, who was also in the courtroom, said Tsarnaev
looked 'smug.'

'I didn't see a lot of remorse. I didn't see a lot of regret,' he said. It just
seemed to me that if I was in that position, I would have been a lot more
nervous, certainly scared.'

DiFava added: 'I just wanted to see him. I wanted to see the person that so
coldly and callously killed four people, one of whom being an officer of mine.'

Others who survived the two bombs exploding at the finishing line in April were
in court, including Karen Brassard, who entered the courtroom on crutches.

Martin Richard, 8; Krystle Marie Campbell, 29; and Lingzi Lu, 23 were killed by
the bombs, which were improvised from pressure cookers. Authorities say the
Tsarnaevs also killed Massachusetts Institute of Technology officer Sean Collier
days later while they were on the run.

'FREE JAHAR!': CONSPIRACY THEORISTS AND SUPPORTERS GATHER OUTSIDE ARRAIGNMENT OF
ALLEGED BOSTON BOMBER DZHOKAR TSARNAEV

Around a dozen supporters of accused Boston Marathon bomber, 19-year-old Dzhokar
Tsarnaev, were among those gathered outside John Joseph Moakley United States
Courthouse in South Boston awaiting his arraignment hearing and first public
appearance since the April 15 bombings that killed three and left many more
injured.

One woman held a sign that said, 'Free Jahar.'

Jennifer Michio wore a shirt bearing the teen's likeness and the words, 'Dzhokar
Tsarnaev Is Innocent.'

The supporters and protesters represented a cross-section of beliefs.

Several of Tsarnaev's high school wrestling teammates were in attendance and
weren't sure what to make of the accusations.

Another man, with no apparent personal connection to Tsarnaev, held a sign
proclaiming 'Boston was a false flag,' among other declarations.

Lacey Buckley, 23, said she traveled from her home in Wenatchee, Wash., to
attend the arraignment. Buckley said she has never met Tsarnaev but came because
she believes he's innocent.

'I just think so many of his rights were violated,' Buckley said. 'They almost
murdered an unarmed kid in a boat.'

Around 10 or 12 of these supporters wound up inside the court for Wednesday's
proceedings, along with about 30 victims and family of victims.

Brittney Gillis, a student at the University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth, where
Tsarnaev attended, came to the courthouse because she wanted to see the suspect.
She said he used to walk her friend home in the evenings because he was worried
about her being alone.

'He would walk her from the campus library to her dorm at night,' she said.

The Boston Marathon bombing was the worst mass-casualty attack on U.S. soil
since September 11, 2001 and could bring a sentence of the death penalty.

The biggest challenge for Tsarnaev's attorneys, including public defender Miriam
Conrad, will be sparing him the death penalty, one observer said.

'I suspect that Miriam will start tomorrow by trying to change his image and
make him look like the normal, average, clean-cut young kid,' Walter Prince, a
former federal prosecutor in Boston who is now a partner with the law firm
Prince Lobel told Reuters.

It will be an uphill battle with the grim charges against him.

'Each exploision killed at least one person,' reads criminal complaint against
Tsarnaev, 'maimed, burned, and wounded scores of others.'

It goes on to describe apparently very incriminating footage seen by
authorities.

'Bomber Two is his brother DZHOKHAR TSARNAEV,' it continues. 'He appears to have
the thumb of his right hand hooked under the the strap of his knapsack...a
photograph of the street shows the knapsack on the ground at Bomber Two's feet.'

Read the full text of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's criminal complaint...

Security was tighter than usual on Wednesday outside Boston's U.S. District
Courthouse, which is also the site of the ongoing murder and racketeering trial
of mob boss James "Whitey" Bulger, now in its fifth week.

Police set a line of metal barriers around the front of the fog-shrouded
waterfront building, and uniformed officers with dogs were patrolling its
perimeter. In addition to well over a dozen police cars and trucks, a Boston
Police boat was moored close to the building's side entrance - the normal entry
point for suspects in custody.

Conrad did not respond to a request for comment.

According to court papers, Tsarnaev scrawled a note on an inside wall and beams
of the boat in which he hid.

'The U.S. Government is killing our innocent civilians,' the note read,
according to court papers. 'We Muslims are one body, you hurt one you hurt us
all.'

'Now I don't like killing innocent people it is forbidden in Islam but due to
said it is allowed,' he wrote, according to court papers. 'Stop killing our
innocent people and we will stop.'

Tsarnaev was badly wounded during the gun battle and arrest. After initially
being confined at a city hospital, he was moved to a prison west of Boston.
Prosecutors have declined to comment on his current condition or if he is still
being held at the Fort Devens, Massachusetts, facility.

The Tsarnaev brothers' ethnic homeland of Chechnya, a mainly Muslim area that
saw centuries of war and repression, no longer threatens to secede from Russia.
But it has become a breeding ground for a form of militant Islam whose adherents
have spread violence to other parts of Russia.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 11, 2013 Thursday 5:18 PM GMT

Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the 9/11 mastermind, 'was allowed to redesign vacuum in
prison';
He is the self-confessed mastermind of the world's worst ever terrorist attack,
who, as Osama bin Laden's trusted lieutenant, became a symbol of al-Qaeda's
campaign of hate.

BYLINE: By Barney Henderson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 685 words


However, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Guantánamo Bay's most notorious inmate, is
apparently a big Harry Potter fan who was once allowed to redesign the vacuum
cleaner in a bid to keep him sane in prison.

The terrorist, who is facing military trial after admitting responsibility "from
A to Z" for the 9/11 attacks on America, was also rewarded with Snickers
chocolate bars for doing "homework" for the prison guards.

In a scene reminiscent of a Graham Greene's novel Our Man in Havana, Mohammed
was apparently allowed to redesign a vacuum cleaner to stop him losing his mind
while undergoing extreme CIA interrogation techniques at a secret "black site"
US prison in Romania a decade ago.

"We didn't want them to go nuts," a former unnamed senior CIA official told the
Associated Press, claiming that Mohammed, who has a 1986 degree in mechanical
engineering from a North Carolina university, used online guides to redesign the
household appliance.

The disclosure raises the possibility that the CIA is in possession of a highly
classified vacuum cleaner design, but Mohammed's lawyer said he could not
confirm whether the terrorist's work existed.

"It sounds ridiculous," said Jason Wright. "But answering this question, or
confirming or denying the very existence of a vacuum cleaner design ... would
apparently expose the US government and its citizens to exceptionally grave
danger."

The CIA stated that the records, "should they exist," would be considered
operational files of the CIA - among its most highly classified category of
government files - and therefore exempt from ever being released to the public.

While in Romania, Mohammed also became a big fan of the Harry Potter series of
books, the official claimed.

However, the terrorist, who has admitted roles in 30 jihadi plots including
using his "blessed right hand" to behead Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel
Pearl in 2002, may have had ulterior motives for his reported obsession with J K
Rowling's tales of sorcery.

All the books were checked by officers after they had been read by inmates and
Mohammed was once caught trying to hide a message on the pages of a novel
warning his fellow inmates not to talk about bin Laden's courier.

Along with the other five detainees at the black site prison code-named
"Britelite" in Bucharest, Mohammed was given assignments about his knowledge of
al-Qaeda, or "homework", as CIA officers called it. As a reward, they were
apparently given Snickers bars. He was reportedly allowed to give lectures about
his path to jihad, his childhood and family while tea and biscuits were served.

Mohammed, a Kuwaiti, was captured in Pakistan in 2003 and was moved to black
site prisons in both Poland and Romania. He was subjected to the most extreme
interrogation techniques, including being forced to stay awake for 180 hours
continuously and being waterboarded 183 times.

The CIA has stated that its interrogation methods were "designed to
psychologically 'dislocate'" people. However, the vacuum redesign project and
Harry Potter appear to have succeeded in keeping Mohammed sane, as recent
Guantánamo records show that he appears to be in good health.

Fellow inmates in Poland and Romania fared less well, however. Ramzi Binalshibh
suffers from depression and post-traumatic stress disorder, while Abd al-Nashiri
is being treated for schizophrenia.

"Any type of prolonged isolation in custody - much less the settings described
in the press - have been known to have a severe impact on the mental condition
of the detainee," said Thomas Durkin, Binalshibh's former civilian lawyer.

The Romania black site prison was closed in 2006 as the CIA programme began to
fall under increased scrutiny and Mohammed was moved to Guantánamo Bay, where he
remains awaiting military trial. President Barack Obama's plan to have him and
four accomplices tried in a federal court in New York City were dropped in 2010
after massive public outcry.

Mr Wright said that he often discussed "modern technological innovations" and
the "scientific wonders" of the Koran with Mohammed. He called the mass killer
"exceptionally intelligent".

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 11, 2013 Thursday 1:58 PM GMT

Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the 9/11 mastermind, 'was allowed to redesign vacuum in
prison';
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the self-confessed mastermind of the 9/11 terrorist
attacks, was apparently allowed to redesign a vacuum cleaner and enjoyed Harry
Potter books to keep him sane while he was held in a secret prison.

BYLINE: By Barney Henderson and Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 575 words


A former CIA official told The Associated Press that Guantánamo Bay's most high
profile inmate was given permission to work on the project while he was being
held in Romania a decade ago to keep him sane.

Mohammed                      was interrogated using the agency's harsh methods
and confessed to multiple atrocities, principally planning the 9/11 attacks on
America.

At the time, the CIA did not apparently have any plans for what to do with the
terrorist, but wanted to keep him sane.

"We didn't want them to go nuts," the former senior CIA official said, one of
several who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorised to
talk about the CIA prisons, which have since been shut down, or Mohammed's
interest in vacuums.

Using designs from the internet as his guide, Mohammed began re-engineering one
of the most mundane of household appliances.

That the CIA may be in possession of the world's most highly classified vacuum
cleaner blueprints is but one peculiar, lasting by-product of the controversial
US detention and interrogation programs.

While in Romania, Mohammed apparently also became a big fan of the Harry Potter
series of books, the official claimed. However, he was once caught trying to
hide a message in a book warning his fellow inmates not to talk about Osama bin
Laden's courier.

He and the other inmates were given "homework" to do, for which they were
rewarded with Snickers chocolate bars, the official said.

By the CIA's own account, the programme's methods were "designed to
psychologically 'dislocate'" people.

However once interrogations stopped, the agency had to try to undo the
psychological damage inflicted on the detainees.

Mohammed was waterboarded 183 times before he was transferred to Guantanamo Bay
in 2006.

The CIA apparently succeeded in keeping Mohammed sane. He appears to be in good
health, according to military records.

Others have not fared as well. Accused al-Qaeda terrorists Ramzi Binalshibh and
Abd al-Nashiri, who were also locked up in Poland and Romania with Mohammed,
have had mental issues. Al-Nashiri suffers from depression and post-traumatic
stress disorder. Binalshibh is being treated for schizophrenia with a slew of
antipsychotic medications.

"Any type of prolonged isolation in custody - much less the settings described
in the press - have been known to have a severe impact on the mental condition
of the detainee," said Thomas Durkin, Binalshibh's former civilian lawyer.
Durkin declined to discuss Binalshibh's case.

Mohammed was subjected to harsh interrogations in Poland. Agency officers and
contractors forced him to stay awake for 180 hours, according to a CIA inspector
general's report. He also underwent 183 instances of waterboarding, or simulated
drowning.

Mohammed graduated from North Carolina A&T State University with a degree in
mechanical engineering in 1986. It was not clear whether he was interested in
designing a better vacuum or had ulterior motives. He might have intended to use
the plans to conceal secret information or trick his jailers.

Mohammed's lawyer told the AP he could not confirm whether the terrorist's
alleged vacuum cleaner designs existed.

"It sounds ridiculous," said Jason Wright. "But answering this question, or
confirming or denying the very existence of a vacuum cleaner design... would
apparently expose the US government and its citizens to exceptionally grave
danger."

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      July 11, 2013 Thursday 11:20 AM GMT

9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed 'was allowed to redesign vacuum';
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the self-confessed mastermind of the 9/11 terrorist
attacks, was apparently allowed to redesign a vacuum cleaner and enjoyed Harry
Potter books to keep him sane while he was held in a secret prison.

BYLINE: By Barney Henderson and Associated Press

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 452 words


A former CIA official told The Associated Press that Guantánamo Bay's most high
profile inmate was given permission to work on the project while he was being
held in Romania a decade ago to keep him sane.

Mohammed had endured the most brutal of the CIA's harsh interrogation methods
and had confessed to a career of atrocities. But the agency had no long-term
plan for him at the time.

"We didn't want them to go nuts," the former senior CIA official said, one of
several who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorised to
talk about the CIA prisons, which have since been shut down, or Mohammed's
interest in vacuums.

Using designs from the internet as his guide, Mohammed began re-engineering one
of the most mundane of household appliances.

That the CIA may be in possession of the world's most highly classified vacuum
cleaner blueprints is but one peculiar, lasting by-product of the controversial
US detention and interrogation programs.

While in Romania, Mohammed apparently also became a big fan of the Harry Potter
series of books, the official claimed. However, he was once caught trying to
hide a message in a book warning his fellow inmates not to talk about Osama bin
Laden's courier.

By the CIA's own account, the programme's methods were "designed to
psychologically 'dislocate'" people. But once interrogations stopped, the agency
had to try to undo the psychological damage inflicted on the detainees.

The CIA apparently succeeded in keeping Mohammed sane. He appears to be in good
health, according to military records.

Others have not fared as well. Accused al-Qaeda terrorists Ramzi Binalshibh and
Abd al-Nashiri, who were also locked up in Poland and Romania with Mohammed,
have had mental issues. Al-Nashiri suffers from depression and post-traumatic
stress disorder. Binalshibh is being treated for schizophrenia with a slew of
antipsychotic medications.

"Any type of prolonged isolation in custody - much less the settings described
in the press - have been known to have a severe impact on the mental condition
of the detainee," said Thomas Durkin, Binalshibh's former civilian lawyer.
Durkin declined to discuss Binalshibh's case.

Mohammed was subjected to harsh interrogations in Poland. Agency officers and
contractors forced him to stay awake for 180 hours, according to a CIA inspector
general's report. He also underwent 183 instances of waterboarding, or simulated
drowning.

Mohammed graduated from North Carolina AT&T State University with a degree in
mechanical engineering in 1986. It's not clear whether he was interested in
designing a better vacuum or had ulterior motives. He might have intended to use
the plans to conceal secret information or trick his jailers.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 12, 2013 Friday

Palestinian forces "thwart" terror attacks planned in Israel

LENGTH: 214 words


Text of report by Israeli public radio station Voice of Israel Network B on 12
July

A Palestinian security source says that since the beginning of the year, the
Palestinian [National] Authority's security forces thwarted more than 10 terror
attacks planned for Israeli territory.

Meanwhile, a senior Palestinian [National] Authority [PNA] security official
warns that among a minority of security forces, frustration is growing over the
state of diplomatic negotiations. He said that in the past, the diplomatic
horizon was the fuel that stimulated the activity of the security forces, while
today Mahmud Abbas's instructions are the only engine for their continued
operations.

However, the source said, he does not know for how long this can continue. He
stressed that given the lack of diplomatic achievements for Abbas, the moderate
camp on the Palestinian street is losing strength. The official added that the
Palestinian [National] Authority is losing justifications for its existence
every day because of Israel and its acts on the ground. He also said that Hamas
is trying to rebuild its infrastructure in Palestinian cities in the West Bank,
and that its success will depend on the diplomatic and security situation.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 0500 gmt 12 Jul 13

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 12, 2013 Friday

Iraqi premier orders amendment to law on terror attacks

LENGTH: 150 words


Text of report in English by Baghdad-based Iraqi Kurdish Shafaq News website on
11 July

Shafaq News - The General-Secretariat of the Council of Ministers announced on
Thursday [11 July], that the prime minister , Nuri al-Maliki has ordered a
legislative amendment to the compensation law of terrorist attacks' victims.

"Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki ordered to make a legislative amendment to the
compensation law for those affected by the terrorist attacks, including law that
gives them the martyr's privileges," the secretary general of the Council of
Ministers, Ali Muhsin al-Allaq told "Shafaq News".

Iraq's provinces except Kurdistan witnessed region after 2003 armed operations
by car bombs and roadside bombs as well as silencer weapons that claimed the
lives of hundreds of thousands and left a similar number of orphans and widows.

Source: Shafaq News website, Baghdad, in English 1315 gmt 11 Jul 13

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Scotland On Sunday

                              July 12, 2013 Friday

Tipton mosque attack was terrorism, say police

BYLINE: Matthew Cooper

LENGTH: 440  words


AN EXPLOSION reported near a mosque is being treated as a terrorist incident,
police said.

Counter-terrorism officers have launched an investigation after residents heard
a loud bang in Tipton, West Midlands, before nails and other debris were found.

No injuries have been reported but several streets in the Binfield Street area
have been sealed off.

"Police have been called to Binfield Street in Tipton this afternoon following
reports of a loud explosion," a West Midlands Police spokesman said yesterday.

"Officers were called at 1:06pm and are currently at the scene. A cordon has
been set up and the immediate area has been evacuated.

"Some residents have reported finding debris in the area and finding nails. This
is being investigated by counter terrorism detectives and forensic officers at
the scene.

"There are no reports of any injuries to anyone at this time.

"An investigation is being led by the West Midlands Counter Terrorism Unit and
it is being treated as a terrorist incident.

"There are some road closures in place around the Binfield Street area."

The incident came on the day murdered soldier Lee Rigby was remembered at a
funeral service in Bury, Greater Manchester.

Tipton Green councillor Ian Jones said residents in the area described hearing a
"loud thud".

Councillor Syeda Amina Khatun said she was not aware of any previous attacks on
the mosque.

"The explosion has gone off on the disused railway line behind the mosque," she
said.

"There are lots of police around so there must be a want for them to be here.

"The whole estate has been blocked off. People are surprised that something like
this has happened."

The loud bang was reported near the Kanz-ul-Iman Muslim Welfare Association
Central Jamia Mosque in Binfield Street, the councillors said.

West Midlands Police are still investigating another explosion near a mosque in
the Caldmore area of Walsall on 21 June.

The remains of a home-made explosive device were found the next day in an
alleyway adjoining the Aisha Mosque and Islamic Centre in Rutter Street.

The earlier incident, in which no one was injured, forced the overnight
evacuation of around 150 people from their homes in the surrounding area.

Dozens of local people, who were asked to leave their homes inside the
sealed-off area gathered at several cordons where police were giving out bottles
of water to families with children.

There was condemnation of the attack from Muslim groups.

Mohammed Shafiq, chief executive of the Ramadhan Foundation, said: "Like we will
not let terrorism divide us when Lee Rigby was killed, we will not allow these
thugs and terrorists to divide Muslims from wider society."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWTS thescotsman


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 12, 2013 Friday 10:43 PM GMT

Terror police investigating nail bomb attack at mosque;
A major atrocity was narrowly averted yesterday after a large nail bomb exploded
outside a mosque just two hours after the funeral of terror victim Lee Rigby.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 871 words


The homemade device exploded near the Kanz Ul Iman Masjid mosque in Tipton, West
Midlands, shortly after 1pm - when up to 200 worshippers would normally have
been in the area for Friday prayers.

However, the prayers had been moved back an hour because of Ramadan and no one
was injured in the blast.

The bomb, which was left on a disused railway line behind the mosque, showered
the area with nails and other debris.

Police were last night treating the explosion as a terrorist incident and were
investigating whether there are any links to a small explosion near a mosque in
nearby Walsall last month.

Officers were also examining whether there is any connection to right wing
extremists.

It was being treated as a suspected terror attack because of the size of the
explosion, the fact nails were included and it appeared to have been timed to
coincide with the Friday prayers.

One police source said such factors "appear to indicate at this stage intent to
cause serious injury or damage".

Residents in Tipton believed the attack had also been timed to coincide with the
day of the funeral of Drummer Rigby in Bury.

The soldier died in an alleged Islamic terror attack in Woolwich, east London,
in May.

Police in Tipton cordoned off an area of up to half a mile around Binfield
Street while forensic experts, bomb specialists and counter-terrorism officers
examined the scene.

Residents reported finding nails in gardens several hundred yards away.

Adrian Bailey, the local MP, said: "Given that it is Drummer Lee Rigby's funeral
today, and previous attacks at mosques across the country, it certainly seems
that this may have been connected in some way.

"A nail bomb had exploded shortly after 1pm, when the mosque is usually at full
capacity, but fortunately, as it is Ramadan, prayer times have changed and the
devastation and potential loss of life that may have been suffered was avoided.

"At the early stages, everything points towards this being a premeditated
attack."

The attack came just two weeks after police arrested a 75-year-old man in
connection with another explosion outside a mosque in nearby Walsall.

Mushtaq Hussain, chairman of the Kanzul Iman Mosque was inside the building at
the time of the explosion.

He said: "There was huge disruption and somebody told me that there had been an
explosion.

"We immediately investigated and alerted police. We tried to remain calm as we
weren't sure what was going on.

"It happened just after one o'clock which on a Friday is the busiest time of the
day for our mosque usually.

"If it wasn't Ramadan there would be at least 200 people here but thankfully at
the time there were only a handful of people and everybody escaped without
injury.

"If what I'm hearing is correct and it was a targeted attack you can't help but
feel unsafe, worried for your friends, family and your own life."

Ahmadul Haque, councillor for Tipton, said: "I think it may be a retaliation to
Lee Rigby's funeral today. It seems like it was planned to go off at the busiest
time of the day and if that's the case, we can only be thankful that the timings
were wrong."

Razmullah Khan, 27, a local resident who lives next to the mosque, said: "It's
terrifying to be around, this is a place of worship not a war zone and with what
happened in Walsall things are becoming terrifying people are starting to not
feel safe about walking down the streets."

Hartahn Hussain, 23, who prays up to five times a day at the mosque added: "This
is a multicultural and cohesive community, there is never any trouble here.

"What's happened today is completely out of the blue and it's taken us all by
surprise.

"We're all completely shocked and each time I'll be going to pray in future I'll
be worried and looking over my shoulder."

In a joint statement, the board of trustees and management committee of the Kanz
Ul Iman Masjid mosque said: "We express our deep shock and utter dismay
regarding the incident that has occurred this afternoon. We jointly on behalf of
the local community condemn this senseless and mindless act. It's a blessing
from God that thankfully no one was injured in the blast.

Speaking at a press conference, Assistant Chief Constable Gareth Cann said:
"Just after 1pm today a member of the public phoned 999 and reported a loud bang
close to the mosque.

"As a result of this, officers initiated a search of the area, and people
started to report finding debris and nails in the area.

"People were evacuated and a cordon was put in place while officers worked with
the army bomb disposal experts and specialist officers.

"There was minor damage to a nearby home, and the army are still searching the
area and I believe that it is ready to be declared safe soon, and we can get
people to return home.

"It's likely that this is an attack given the factors and evidence found
already. This includes the loud bang, reports of smoke, the finding of nails and
the location of a mosque. From this, we can draw the most likely conclusion that
there was a serious explosion and that somebody sought to create a devastating
amount of damage.

"We are treating this as a terror attack, but we are still working to establish
if this is connected to any other incidents that have occurred."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 12, 2013 Friday 6:43 PM GMT

Terror police investigating nail bomb attack at mosque;
A major atrocity has been narrowly averted after a large nail bomb exploded
outside a mosque just two hours after funeral of terror victim Lee Rigby.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 745 words


The homemade device exploded near the Kanz Ul Iman Masjid mosque in Tipton, West
Midlands, shortly after 1pm - when up to 200 worshippers would normally be in
the area for Friday prayers.

However, the prayers had been moved back an hour because of Ramadan and no one
was injured in the blast.

Police are treating the explosion as a terrorist incident and are investigating
whether there are any links to a small explosion near a mosque in nearby Walsall
last month.

Officers are also examining whether there is any connection to right wing
extremists.

It is being treated as a suspected terror attack because of the size of the
explosion, the fact nails were included and appeared to have been timed to
coincide with the Friday prayers.

One police source said such factors "appear to indicate at this stage intent to
cause serious injury or damage".

Residents in Tipton believed the attack had also been timed to coincide with the
day of the funeral of Drummer Rigby in Bury.

The soldier died in an alleged Islamic terror attack in Woolwich, east London,
in May.

Police in Tipton cordoned off an area of up to half a mile around Binfield
Street while forensic experts, bomb specialists and counter-terrorism officers
examined the scene.

The device was left on a disused railway line behind the mosque and residents
reported finding nails in gardens several hundred yards away.

Adrian Bailey, MP for West Bromwich West, said: "Given that it is Drummer Lee
Rigby's funeral today, and previous attacks at mosques across the country, it
certainly seems that this may have been connected in some way.

"A nail bomb had exploded shortly after 1pm, when the mosque is usually at full
capacity, but fortunately, as it is Ramadan, prayer times have changed and the
devastation and potential loss of life that may have been suffered was avoided.

"At the early stages, everything points towards this being a premeditated
attack."

The attack comes just two weeks after police arrested a 75-year-old man in
connection with another explosion outside a mosque in nearby Walsall.

Mushtaq Hussain, chairman of the Kanzul Iman Mosque was inside the building at
the time of the explosion.

He said: "There was huge disruption and somebody told me that there had been an
explosion.

"We immediately investigated and alerted police. We tried to remain calm as we
weren't sure what was going on.

"It happened just after one o'clock which on a Friday is the busiest time of the
day for our mosque usually.

"If it wasn't Ramadan there would be at least 200 people here but thankfully at
the time there were only a handful of people and everybody escaped without
injury.

"If what I'm hearing is correct and it was a targeted attack you can't help but
feel unsafe, worried for your friends, family and your own life."

Ahmadul Haque, councillor for Tipton, said: "I think it may be a retaliation to
Lee Rigby's funeral today. It seems like it was planned to go off at the busiest
time of the day and if that's the case, we can only be thankful that the timings
were wrong."

Razmullah Khan, 27, a local resident who lives next to the mosque, said: "It's
terrifying to be around, this is a place of worship not a war zone and with what
happened in Walsall things are becoming terrifying people are starting to not
feel safe about walking down the streets."

Hartahn Hussain, 23, who prays up to five times a day at the mosque added: "This
is a multicultural and cohesive community, there is never any trouble here.

"What's happened today is completely out of the blue and it's taken us all by
surprise.

"We're all completely shocked and each time I'll be going to pray in future I'll
be worried and looking over my shoulder."

In a joint statement, the board of trustees and management committee of the Kanz
Ul Iman Masjid mosque said: "We express our deep shock and utter dismay
regarding the incident that has occurred this afternoon. We jointly on behalf of
the local community condemn this senseless and mindless act. It's a blessing
from God that thankfully no one was injured in the blast.

A spokesman from West Midlands Police said: "Some residents have reported
finding debris in the area and finding nails. This is being investigated by
counter terrorism detectives and forensic officers at the scene.

"There are no reports of any injuries to anyone at this time.

"An investigation is being led by the West Midlands Counter Terrorism Unit and
it is being treated as a terrorist incident."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 12, 2013 Friday 6:31 PM GMT

Terror police investigating nail bomb attack at mosque;
A major atrocity has been narrowly averted after a large nail bomb exploded
outside a mosque just two hours after funeral of terror victim Lee Rigby.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 574 words


The homemade device exploded near the Kanzul Iman mosque in Tipton, West
Midlands, shortly after 1pm - when up to 200 worshippers would normally be in
the area for Friday prayers.

However, the prayers had been moved back an hour because of Ramadan and no one
was injured in the blast.

Police are treating the explosion as a terrorist incident and investigating
whether there are any links to a small explosion near a mosque in nearby Walsall
last month.

Residents in Tipton believed the attack had been timed to coincide with the day
of the funeral of Drummer Rigby in Bury.

The soldier died in an alleged Islamic terror attack in Woolwich, east London,
in May.

Police in Tipton cordoned off an area of up to half a mile around Binfield
Street while forensic experts, bomb specialists and counter-terrorism officers
examined the scene.

The device was left on a disused railway line behind the mosque and residents
reported finding nails in gardens several hundred yards away.

Adrian Bailey, MP for West Bromwich West, said: "Given that it is Drummer Lee
Rigby's funeral today, and previous attacks at mosques across the country, it
certainly seems that this may have been connected in some way.

"A nail bomb had exploded shortly after 1pm, when the mosque is usually at full
capacity, but fortunately, as it is Ramadan, prayer times have changed and the
devastation and potential loss of life that may have been suffered was avoided.

"At the early stages, everything points towards this being a premeditated
attack."

The attack comes just two weeks after police arrested a 75-year-old man in
connection with another explosion outside a mosque in nearby Walsall.

Mushtaq Hussain, chairman of the Kanzul Iman Mosque was inside the building at
the time of the explosion.

He said: "There was huge disruption and somebody told me that there had been an
explosion.

"We immediately investigated and alerted police. We tried to remain calm as we
weren't sure what was going on.

"It happened just after one o'clock which on a Friday is the busiest time of the
day for our mosque usually.

"If it wasn't Ramadan there would be at least 200 people here but thankfully at
the time there were only a handful of people and everybody escaped without
injury.

"If what I'm hearing is correct and it was a targeted attack you can't help but
feel unsafe, worried for your friends, family and your own life."

Razmullah Khan, 27, a local resident who lives next to the mosque, said: "It's
terrifying to be around, this is a place of worship not a war zone and with what
happened in Walsall things are becoming terrifying people are starting to not
feel safe about walking down the streets."

Hartahn Hussain, 23, who prays up to five times a day at the mosque added: "This
is a multicultural and cohesive community, there is never any trouble here.

"What's happened today is completely out of the blue and it's taken us all by
surprise.

"We're all completely shocked and each time I'll be going to pray in future I'll
be worried and looking over my shoulder."

A spokesman from West Midlands Police said: "Some residents have reported
finding debris in the area and finding nails. This is being investigated by
counter terrorism detectives and forensic officers at the scene.

"There are no reports of any injuries to anyone at this time.

"An investigation is being led by the West Midlands Counter Terrorism Unit and
it is being treated as a terrorist incident."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 13, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

NAIL BOMBERS COULD HAVE MAIMED HUNDREDS;
Terror attack at mosque only thwarted because prayers were put back one hour ;
'There could have been 500 people at prayers. There would have been blood
everywhere'

BYLINE: NICK McCARTHY; STEVE BRADLEY

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4,5

LENGTH: 1278 words


A TERROR attack on a Tipton mosque failed to kill or maim hundreds of innocent
worshippers because Friday prayers had been moved back one hour due to Ramadan.

A regular at Kanz-ul-Iman Central Jamia Mosque said there would have been "blood
everywhere" if prayers had not been switched from 1pm to 2pm because of the
Muslim holy month.

Instead, no-one was injured when the nail bomb rocked the largely-deserted area
at 1.05pm.

Sick terrorists had planted the explosive device on a disused railway line
behind the mosque in Binfield Street.

The blast occurred around an hour after murdered soldier Lee Rigby's funeral was
held in Greater Manchester. Last night cops said they were not making any direct
links to the tragic Army drummer's funeral, or to a bomb attack outside a mosque
in Walsall last month. But senior officers said the attackers wanted to cause
"serious harm" with the blast which they labelled an ''act of terrorism". Mosque
leaders said it was a ''blessing from God'' that no-one had been injured. The
explosion had sent potentially deadly nails flying through the air - damaging at
least one homeowner's window.

Counter terror cops called in Army bomb disposal experts after residents heard
the bang and discovered nails and other explosive debris nearby. The material is
now being investigated by forensic officers. Nobody was injured, but police
sealed off roads around the mosque and evacuated homes nearby. Cordons were
still in place last night. Security guard Mithab Hussain, 20, a regular at the
mosque, said: "It's a straight terrorist act.

"They thought that everyone was going to be arriving at the mosque at 1pm. But
prayers had moved to 2pm. Whoever did this must have thought that we would all
be there. There would have been between 400 and 500 people there. There would
have been blood everywhere. "It's usually fine here. There has never been any
problem." Mushtaq Hussain, chairman of the mosque, was inside the building at
the time of the explosion. He said: "There was huge disruption and somebody told
me that there had been an explosion. "We immediately investigated and alerted
police. "Thankfully at the time there were only a handful of people and
everybody escaped without injury.

"If what I'm hearing is correct and it was a targeted attack, you can't help but
feel unsafe, worried for your friends, family and your own life." One local
Muslim woman, who did not want to be named said she thought the terror attack
was planned to coincide with the funeral of Lee Rigby. The 29-year-old
mum-of-two, who lives near to the mosque in Sedgley Road East, said: "I'm
guessing this is something to do with Lee Rigby. "They got the time wrong and
did not take into account the clocks changing. "We have got all faiths and all
colours in this road. There is no cultural clash in this area at all." Naz Khan
was visiting his girlfriend when the bomb went off. The 29-year-old from Dudley
said he had been to the mosque a few times. He added: "It's a stupid act.

It's disgusting to hear of it, especially during the time of Ramadan." Another
20-year-old Muslim woman, who did not want to be named was stopped from going
back to the house with her three brothers and parents in Sedgley Road East. She
said: "It's really scary. I'm quite confused. This was a really safe area and I
have never felt threatened. "I hope it does not escalate. There is a whole mix
of people in this area and we get on with everybody. "I'm shocked, it scares me
and I feel a bit like I can't now go out." At a press conference at the scene
last night, Assistant Chief Constable Gareth Cann, from West Midlands Police,
said: "Officers started to make a search of the area because they'd been told
about the large bang and people had also reported seeing some smoke. "The
officers started to discover some debris, including nails, which seemed to have
been scattered over a fairly wide area.

"They started to evacuate people from the immediate area. "Since then the
officers have called in a number of specialist resources, including colleagues
from the Army bomb disposal teams and other specialist investigators." ACC Cann
said he was unaware of any specific links to last month's blast in Walsall. He
added: "I can't say for certain that it was definitely directed at the mosque
but that seems to be the most likely explanation. "For now, the working
assumption, which could change, is that this was an act of terrorism. "Someone
who did this looked to cause serious harm or serious damage to property." Army
experts were still clearing the area last night to make sure it was safe.
Meanwhile, the mosque leadership issued a statement condemning the 'mindless
act' last night. It said: '

'We jointly on behalf of the local community condemn this senseless and mindless
act. It's a blessing from God that thankfully no-one was injured in the blast.
''We call for calm and strongly urge the community not to let this incident
divide us and cause disharmony. ''We stand united together in the aftermath of
this mindless act. ''We have worked hard to build good community relations and
will not allow this incident to divide us or undermine cohesion in the borough.
''We are working closely with the police with their ongoing investigation,
seeking reassurance to make the scene as safe and secure as soon as possible and
track down the perpetrators.''

Anyone who saw anything sus- picious can call police on 101 or Crimestoppers,
anonymously, on 0800 555 111. POLICE arrested and bailed a 75-year-old man last
month after a home-made explosive was found near a mosque in Walsall. Around 150
people were evacuated from homes near to the Aisha Mosque, in Rutter Street, on
June 22. Residents heard a "loud bang" , but police were only called after the
device was brought into the mosque. The local man was arrested on suspicion of
causing an explosion likely to endanger life or damage property. West Mercia
Police are also investigating a break-in at a part-built mosque in Redditch
where racist graffiti was daubed over the building, including swastikas.

At least six windows were also vandalised at the mosque in Jinnah Road on June
26. And on July 1 racist graffiti was also discovered on a mosque in Cradley
Heath. Council workers removed the graffiti from the Mosque and Islamic Centre
in Plant Street, shortly after it was discovered. MIDLAND MOSQUE ATTACKS Daddy's
boy joins hundreds at funeral THE young son of murdered soldier Lee Rigby joined
hundreds of mourners in remembering a "gentle soul" at his funeral yesterday.
The image of two-year-old Jack holding his mother's hand outside the church as
he wore a T-shirt with the tribute "My Daddy My Hero" shone in the poignant
service. The heartbroken family of Fusilier Rigby were among about 800 people
packed inside Bury Parish Church to honour the 25-year-old in a private funeral,
relayed via loudspeakers to large crowds.

The drummer's comrades in the 2nd Battalion Royal Regiment of Fusiliers (2RRF)
were warmly applauded as they arrived at the church, as were Fusilier veterans.
Prime Minister David Cameron and Mayor of London Boris Johnson were also in
attendance at the service for Fusilier Rigby, who was killed as he returned to
Woolwich barracks on May 22. His coffin, draped in the Union flag and with his
bearskin on top, was borne out of the church by six pall bearers in ceremonial
scarlet tunics. His wife Rebecca, 30, mother Lyn, 46, stepfather Ian, 54, and
Rebecca's mother, Susan Metcalfe, 60, watched from the steps, while son Jack
clutched his mother's hand. Three of his four sisters, Sara, 24, Chelsea, 21,
and Courtney, 12, also attended the service as did the soldier's girlfriend,
Aimee West.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The scene close to the blast in Tipton as police and bomb disposal
officers seal off and make safe the area around the Central Jamia Mosque, below.

Little Jack Rigby holds his mother's hand as the body of his father, Lee Rigby,
is carried from the church in Bury.
The bomb disposal squad get to work close to the scene of the explosion in
Tipton.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2013 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Cambridge Evening News

                             July 13, 2013 Saturday

Man jailed for terrorising his ex in Cambridgeshire arson attack

BYLINE: GARETH MCPHERSON

LENGTH: 378  words


Dean Robins

An ex-boyfriend has been jailed for four years for terrorising his former
partner by setting fire to a car outside her home.

Dean Robins' arson attack, which spread to other cars next to her Cambridgeshire
home, was the latest in a campaign of terror causing "endless misery" to his
former partner, who he was banned from going near.

The 37-year-old, who carried out the arson with the help of 24-year-old Gary
Crick, was told by a judge that he was a danger to anyone he formed a
relationship with.

Robins, of Downham Road, Ely, was driven by Crick, of Wellard Palace, Ely, to
get petrol before he was taken to Saffron Piece in Sutton, where his former
on-off girlfriend of five years lived.

He then set fire to the car next to her house in the early hours of May 17 to
cause as much fear as possible to his ex, who was at home with her child at the
time, the court heard.

Robins admitted arson and three breaches of a restraining order at a previous
hearing.

Judge Gareth Hawkesworth, sentencing at Cambridge Crown Court, said he had an
"appalling" criminal record and his only mitigation was that he pleaded guilty
to his crimes.

He said: "You set the car alight so close to her house so it would be intently
obvious to her and the child and terrify her, particularly in light of earlier
threats that you had wanted to kill her and burn her house down."

Judge Hawkesworth said he viewed him as a risk to anyone he chose to have a
relationship with.

He said he must serve two thirds of the sentence in prison when he will be
released on extended licence until 2021.

Turning to Crick, who has bipolar disorder, the judge said: "You are easily led
and like to impress people and that is probably why you committed this offence."

Crick, who admitted arson, was sentenced to 16 months in jail suspended for two
years and told to complete a thinking skills programme.

Det Con Kelly Power, investigating, said: "Robins has caused endless misery to
his former partner with a string of harassment attacks.

"Since their relationship ended he has persistently contacted her despite being
the subject of harassment orders.

"He caused a huge amount of damage to the cars and I hope the sentence will go
someway to relieve the victim of the terror she has been feeling."

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CambridgeNews


                    Copyright 2013 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Dudley News

                             July 13, 2013 Saturday

Road closures near Dudley lifted after Tipton terrorist attack

SECTION: ROUND-UP (DUDLEY NEWS ROUNDUP)

LENGTH: 97 words


ROAD closures around the scene of the suspected terrorist attack on a mosque
near Dudley have now been lifted.

The incident took place near the Kanz Ul Iman Masjd mosque on Binfield Street,
Tipton, yesterday (Friday) when a suspected nail bomb exploded at around 1pm.

A major police investigation led by counter terrorism officers is under way and
Binfield Street remains sealed off.

Dudley North MP Ian Austin has described the incident as shocking, he added:
"Don't let extremists divide us."

Anyone with information about the explosion should contact West Midlands Police
by calling 101.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                             July 13, 2013 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

Insurgents kill 24 in terror attacks

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - MOTORING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 133 words


IRAQ: A series of attacks in Iraq have left at least 24 Shiites and five
policeman dead.

The violence has been blamed on insurgents trying to inflame sectarian tensions.

In one of the attacks on Shiites, a suicide bomber rammed his explosives-laden
motorcycle into a funeral tent for a family in Muqdadiyah, 60 miles north of
Baghdad.

The explosion late on Thursday killed 13 people and wounded 24.

In the northern town of Dujail, a parked car bomb went off outside a Shiite
mosque. As people gathered around the blast site, another bomb went off, leaving
at least 11 dead and 25 wounded.

Elsewhere, a suicide car bomber struck a police patrol outside the northern city
of Mosul, killing four officers.

And outside the northern city of Tikrit, a senior police officer was shot dead
in a drive-by incident.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             July 13, 2013 Saturday
                                   1 Edition

Mosque attack terrorism alert

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 259 words


POLICE have launched a terrorism investigation after a suspected nail bomb
attack outside a mosque.

Streets surrounding the Muslim worship centre in Tipton, West Midlands, were
sealed off as an army bomb disposal unit was sent in following reports of a loud
bang and smoke.

Nails and other debris were found by officers scattered over a wide area near
the Kanz Ul Iman Masjid mosque. No-one was injured but a cordon was set up in
part of the town, people were evacuated and several streets were sealed off. It
is thought the blast took place next to a disused railway line

Army and bomb disposal teams, including members of the counter-terrorism unit,
have been at the scene.

West Midlands Police said there was minor damage to the window of one house.

A spokesman said whoever was behind the blast "looked to cause serious harm".
The army had cleared the safe to ensure it was safe, he added.

Local councillor Ian Jones said locals had described hearing a loud thud. Fellow
councillor Syeda Amina Khatun said she was not aware of any previous attacks on
the mosque. She said: "The whole estate has been blocked off. People are
surprised that something like this has happened."

The mosque's trustees and management committee described their deep shock and
utter dismay at the blast. They said: "We jointly on behalf of the local
community condemn this senseless and mindless act. It's a blessing from God that
thankfully no-one was injured in the blast. We call for calm and strongly urge
the community not to let this incident divide us and cause disharmony."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 13, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Terror attack feared after 'nail bomb' left at mosque

BYLINE: Fiona Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 256 words


Counter-terrorism police were investigating last night after a suspected nail
bomb was planted in a mosque car park, coinciding with the funeral of Fusilier
Lee Rigby.

A member of the public phoned police to report a loud bang close to the mosque
in Dudley, West Midlands, shortly after 1pm, when the building would ordinarily
have been full of worshippers.

The start of Ramadan meant that prayer times had changed and nobody was injured.

Adrian Bailey, MP for West Bromwich West, said: "Given that it is Lee Rigby's
funeral today ... it certainly seems that this may have been connected in some
way."

Assistant Chief Constable Gareth Cann said: "People started to report finding
debris and nails in the area.

People were evacuated and a cordon was put in place while officers worked with
the Army bomb disposal experts and specialist officers. It's likely that this is
an attack, given the loud bang, reports of smoke, the finding of nails and the
location of a mosque."

He said that there was minor damage to a nearby home and the Army was still
searching the area.

There has been a series of attacks on mosques and other Islamic buildings since
the murder of Fusilier Rigby in May. He was attacked outside the barracks in
Woolwich, southeast London.

Ahmadul Haque, a councillor for Tipton, said yesterday: "Everybody is worried
and scared about it, and to put it simply, nobody knows what to do. We have been
asking the police to install CCTV and tighten security as a number of people
have suffered verbal threats over the past few months."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                             July 13, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Explosion at mosque being treated by police as a terrorist attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 403 words


An explosion reported near a mosque is being treated as a terrorist incident.

Counter-terrorism officers have launched an investigation after residents heard
a loud bang in Tipton, in the West Midlands, before nails and other debris were
found.

No injuries have been reported but several streets in the area were sealed off.

A police spokesman said officers were called to the street yesterday afternoon
following reports of a loud explosion.

The incident came on the day murdered soldier Lee Rigby was remembered at a
private funeral service in Bury, Greater Manchester.

There was condemnation of the attack from Muslim groups.

Mohammed Shafiq, chief executive of the Ramadhan Foundation, called on people
not to allow terrorism to divide the community.

He said: "Today has been a difficult day for our country with the funeral of
Fusilier Lee Rigby taking place in Bury and this attack against Muslims and our
mosques.

"Like we will not let terrorism divide us when Lee Rigby was killed, we will not
allow these thugs and terrorists to divide Muslims from wider society.

"With Ramadhan happening for the next four weeks I would urge mosques to step up
security and report anything suspicious to the police.

"Finally we will not be frightened by these terrorists from whatever background
they come from, they will be defeated." Tipton Green councillor Ian Jones said
residents in the area described hearing a "loud thud".

Local councillor Syeda Amina Khatun said the explosion went off on a disused
railway line behind the mosque. "People are surprised that something like this
has happened," she said.

West Midlands Police are still investigating an explosion near a mosque in the
Caldmore area of Walsall on June 21.

The remains of a home-made explosive device were found on June 22 in an alleyway
adjoining the Aisha Mosque and Islamic Centre in the town.

The earlier incident, in which no one was injured, forced the overnight
evacuation of around 150 people from their homes in the surrounding area.

Dozens of local people were asked to leave their homes inside the sealed-off
area.

Local resident Rob Abbey, who lives a few hundred yards from the mosque, said
the explosion sounded "very, very loud" but he had no idea what it was at the
time.

The 35-year-old said: "I was just leaving to go to the park when I heard it.

"I wasn't given any choice about leaving and I'm told it may be up to several
hours before we're allowed back."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A police cordon where an blast was reported near a mosque

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDP


                    Copyright 2013 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 5:53 PM GMT

Neo-Nazi linked to Norwegian killer Anders Breivik arrested in France;
A Norwegian neo-Nazi who has expressed support for mass murderer Anders Behring
Breivik has been arrested in France on suspicion of plotting a terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 307 words


Kristian Vikernes, a heavy metal musician, has already spent 21 years in prison
in Norway for stabbing to death a rival metal guitarist. He also burned down
several churches in the early 1990s.

On his Twitter page, the 40-year-old known as "Varg" - which means wolf in
Norwegian - described himself as "Your favourite murderer and church arsonist."

A year ago he tweeted: "August 10 marks my killer anniversary. 19 years!
Sentenced to 21, LOL. ---- the police."

Last year Vikernes moved to France, settling in President Francois Hollande's
home region of Correze with his wife Marie Cachet, 25.

Jean-Claude Chauffour, the mayor of Salon-La-Tour where the couple lived, said
that they kept to themselves and did not participate in village life.

"He doesn't speak much French," Mr Chauffour told Le Nouvel Observateur. "He
used to dress in military clothes, and she also liked camouflage gear."

The couple were both arrested yesterday morning (TUES) at their home after
having purchased five guns, including four .22 calibre rifles. Ms Cachet was
said to be expecting the couple's fourth child.

"It's about acting before, and not after," said Manuel Valls, French interior
minister.

He said that there was no known plot or target yet identified.

However, Mr Vikernes was one of the people who was sent a terrorist manifesto by
Breivik, sentenced to 21 years last year in Norway for killing 77 people in a
twin terrorist attack in 2011.

On his website, Mr Vikernes discusses Breivik's manifesto, but in a post called
"War in Europe: Part V - Breivik Unveiled" he also criticises the murderer for
killing more innocent Norwegians than Muslims.

Mr Valls told the French national assembly that the Norwegian was "suspected of
preparing a terrorist attack, and therefore was a potential danger to society."

"He presents a particularly dangerous profile," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                            July 17, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Seagull attacks terrorise street;
street shocked ; as gull attacks ; are 'like a film' ; Dive-bombing bird like
'something from a film'

BYLINE: STEVEN IMPEY

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 442 words


"IT'S like The Birds" - the words of one resident in a street besieged by a
vicious seagull.

Aidan Mills-Thomas said the violent bird has been attacking people outside his
home in Priory Street, Battledown. He said the seagull is so dangerous that even
a "burly" house painter he hired to renovate his home was forced to down his
brush while the bird remains in the area.

The 63-year-old said: "It's like a scene out of The Birds - it really is.

"I called the council about it but they said it was not the council's policy to
do anything about seagulls. "We've had a house painter in but the gull attacked
him as well. "We agreed that he could not continue, especially while he worked
on the ladder because we knew, if he did, he might fall and kill himself. "It
sounds trivial but these things are not," he continued. "I appreciate wildlife
as much as the next person. I love birds but only in the right place. "Are we
going to have to wait until someone loses an eye before something is done?" It
is thought seagulls have moved to the area after a hawk was introduced to The
Brewery in the town centre to ward them off.The Priory Street gull has also been
swooping down to peck at resident Ben Taylor, 38, and his young children. They
now fear leaving their home in case the bird attacks again, and Ben is calling
for the authorities to take extreme measures and shoot the seagull. He said:
"It's frustrating. There is a baby seagull up there and its mother is being very
protective and acting extremely aggressively to an extent that it swoops down to
my children. "I was scared to leave the house with my kids because it is
swooping down every time you collect your bin or go to the car. I would like to
see it fired at and taken away." Sarah Clark, the council's public and
environmental health team leader, said it does take action to tackle the town
seagull problem. "Cheltenham Borough Council carries out yearly egg oiling at
nests that have been reported to us and at sites we have previously treated,"
she said. "Once the eggs have been treated, they do not hatch and the birds have
no young to protect. "This makes them less disruptive and caps the birds'
population growth. However it does not deal with problems from adult birds.
"Proofing is the most effective and sustainable method of gull control, as it
prevents nest building. This work should be undertaken by a responsible,
specialised pest control company because of the potential risk involved.
Proofing should be done outside the nesting season as interfering with these
nests can be illegal." OPINION, P8

Have you been attacked by a seagull? Tell us about it gloucestershireecho.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNDER SIEGE: A seagull has left one street in Cheltenham living in fear

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLE


                      Copyright 2013 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      July 17, 2013 Wednesday 9:45 AM GMT

Neo-Nazi linked to Norwegian killer Anders Breivik arrested in France;
A Norwegian neo-Nazi who has expressed support for mass murderer Anders Behring
Breivik has been arrested in France on suspicion of plotting a terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 264 words


Kristian Vikernes, a heavy metal musician, has already spent 21 years in prison
in Norway for stabbing to death a rival metal guitarist. He also burned down
several churches in the early 1990s.

Last year Vikernes, 40, moved to France, settling in President Francois
Hollande's home region of Correze with his wife Marie Cachet, 25.

Jean-Claude Chauffour, the mayor of Salon-La-Tour where the couple lived, said
that they kept to themselves and did not participate in village life.

"He doesn't speak much French," Mr Chauffour told Le Nouvel Observateur. "He
used to dress in military clothes, and she also liked camouflage gear."

The couple were both arrested on Tuesday morning at their home after having
purchased five guns, including four .22 calibre rifles. Ms Cachet was said to be
expecting the couple's fourth child.

"It's about acting before, and not after," said Manuel Valls, French interior
minister.

He said that there was no known plot or target yet identified.

However, Mr Vikernes was one of the people who was sent a terrorist manifesto by
Breivik, sentenced to 21 years last year in Norway for killing 77 people in a
twin terrorist attack in 2011.

On his website, Mr Vikernes discusses Breivik's manifesto, but in a post called
"War in Europe: Part V - Breivik Unveiled" he also criticises the murderer for
killing more innocent Norwegians than Muslims.

Mr Valls told the French national assembly that the Norwegian was "suspected of
preparing a terrorist attack, and therefore was a potential danger to society."

"He presents a particularly dangerous profile," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 18, 2013 Thursday

Russia says four men killed in Kabarda-Balkaria plotted terror attacks

LENGTH: 197 words


Text of report by Russian state news agency RIA Novosti

18 July: The four militants killed on Thursday [18 July] in Kabarda-Balkaria had
plotted terrorist attacks, the [Russian] National Anti-Terrorist Committee (NAC)
reported.

"The bandits had planned to carry out a series of high-profile crimes of
terrorist nature in the republic in the nearest future, the [NAC] press release
says. Earlier, it was reported that a counter-terrorist operation (CTO) regime
was imposed in the village of Islamey in Baksanskiy District at 0600 on Thursday
[0200 gmt on 18 July]. Four militants were killed during the operation.

"Pistols, assault rifles, a grenade, a large amount of ammunition, as well as an
improvised explosive device [IED] consisting of 3 kg of TNT were found in the
house where the rebels were hiding. The IED was defused on the spot. The members
of the neutralized criminal cell of the banned terrorist organization are
involved in a number of killings and attempts on lives, including the attack on
members of the patrol post service on 13 July 2013 which took the lives of two
police officers," the NAC added.

Source: RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0544 gmt 18 Jul 13

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                             July 18, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SMALLER TERROR ATTACKS WARNING;
'Lone actor' threats hard to detect

BYLINE: EXAMINER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 329 words


TERRORISM plots in Britain are becoming less complex, involving fewer
participants, an official watchdog has said.

The independent reviewer of terrorism legislation, David Anderson QC, said that
there were now fewer complex plots directed from the tribal areas of Pakistan
than there were 10 years ago.

However he said "al-Qaida core" still had a role in training and sanctioning
individuals in the UK to "self-organise" into groups and carry out attack
planning.

He warned that "lone actor" attacks could be more difficult for the security
services to detect and disrupt.

"The will and capacity to commit 7/7 style atrocities still exist in the United
Kingdom, as demonstrated recently by the Birmingham rucksack bomb plot. However
the bombers' chances of success have diminished with the marked improvement in
MI5's coverage since 2005," he said in his annual report.

"Simpler attacks, involving fewer people and less planning, are becoming more
common - including against national security targets, as in Northern Ireland -
and can be very difficult to detect."

The threat of such small-scale attacks was underlined by the killing of Fusilier
Lee Rigby who was stabbed to death outside Woolwich Barracks in south east
London in May. Two men have been charged with his murder.

Mr Anderson also highlighted the continued threat from individuals radicalised
in "jihadi conflicts" in various part of the world.

"Jihadi conflicts have the potential to radicalise individuals in the UK, and
for some individuals who return from fighting abroad to pose a direct threat to
the UK," he said.

"There is a high risk to UK citizens and interests in the jihadi conflict zones
of North, West and East Africa."

He added: "We are certainly not seeing now what we saw in the years around 2005,
2006, which are the large, ambitious, 9/11-style plots perhaps to bring down
simultaneously several airliners.

"What we are seeing is a trend towards lone actors and we are also seeing
self-organised plots."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       July 18, 2013 Thursday 7:51 PM GMT

Woolwich terror attack: Lee Rigby murder suspect beaten up in jail

BYLINE: Agency

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 204 words


One of the men accused of murdering Fusilier Lee Rigby outside Woolwich Barracks
has been attacked in prison.

Michael Adebolajo, 28, of Romford, Essex, was set upon at HMP Belmarsh in
south-east London on Wednesday.

It is understood that he lost his two front teeth in the attack, but no arrests
have yet been made. The Prison Service refused to comment on the extent of his
injuries or on suggestions that he had been "targeted" by prison officers.

A spokeswoman said: "The police are investing an incident that took place at HMP
Belmarsh on 17 July. It would be inappropriate to comment while the
investigation was ongoing."

Mr Adebolajo, together with Michael Adebowale, 22, is accused of hacking
Fusilier Rigby to death, near Woolwich Barracks on 22  May. The two men are
expected to stand trial on 18 November.Mr Adebolajo is also accused of the
attempted murder of two police officers and possession of a firearm with intent
to cause others to believe that violence would be used.

Thousands of people paid their respects at the scene of Fusilier Rigby's death.
But despite pleas from police and the soldier's family for his death not to be
used for political gain, there have also been several clashes between rival
protesters.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 19, 2013 Friday

Cricket: The Ashes: Second Test: 'Rhino' Harris leads the charge to draw first
blood with help from an unlikely terror: Ageing jewel of Australia's pace attack
was upstaged late in day by Steve Smith, writes Barney Ronay

BYLINE: Barney Ronay at Lord's

SECTION: GUARDIAN SPORT PAGES; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 776 words


There is something rather hopeful about Ryan Harris's nickname, Rhino. It is one
of the great default sporting nicknames, usually bestowed on a team-mate with
great physical strength and also a certain pachydermic invulnerability.

Harris is definitely halfway there: rolling in from the Pavilion End in horribly
stifling afternoon heat he resembled at times two normal sized men crushed into
one, a three-legged race coming in to bowl, all bounding brawny intent, and so
malevolently piratical you half-expected to look down and notice he was bowling
with a hunting knife on his belt.

Harris troubled every England batsman with his combination of new-ball away
swing and skiddy hostility. Half an hour after lunch, as his bouncer did for an
unusually expansive Jonathan Trott - who on this form must surely be asked to
reign in his rakish stroke-making for the good of the team - he had figures of
9.5-3-25-3 and England were in trouble at 127 for four.

In the event it was an early advantage pressed home by the unlikely figure of
Steve Smith, widely maligned purveyor of occasional leg breaks with a bowling
average of 57, but who here terrorised England's late middle order, taking three
for 16 in five overs. Smith has taken seven Test wickets, six of them at Lord's,
three of them - Ian Bell, Jonny Bairstow and Matt Prior - in the space of a most
unexpected half hour that nudged this first day decisively Australia's way.

For Harris, the ageing jewel in this Australia pace attack, the first day was
another moment of personal triumph in an intermittently late-blooming career. In
reality he is no more than a demi-Rhino, a maddeningly intermittent full-bodied
competitor who seems to have the rare gift of emerging from the latest niggle,
fracture, flesh wound and total physical collapse right back in his wonderfully
menacing groove.

Harris took his 50th Test wicket (at an average of just over 23) when he had
Trott caught by Usman Khawaja after lunch, and if he lacked a little
wicket-taking support at times it was Australia's other injury-wracked
refrigerator-scale colossus who made the first breakthrough of the day.

The opening overs at Lord's had brought with them the intriguing sight of
Michael Clarke and Shane Watson standing next to each other in public, although
Clarke, several feet forward of Watson at second slip tended to address his
small talk to Phillip Hughes on his left, leaving Watson to loom silently just
out of neck-wringing range.

Throwing the new ball to Watson after just four overs was either an act of trust
or a stroke of minor sadism given that Watson approaches the long march back to
his bowling mark with all the light-footed joie de vivre of a man heading
outside into the blizzard with his rum ration and a loaded revolver. In the
event it was Clarke's first captaincy masterstroke of the day: Watson had taken
five for 35 at Lord's against Pakistan last year, and here he dismissed Alastair
Cook lbw with his second ball, Cook's own refusal to review a good, but
marginal, decision so stirringly selfless it was almost worth getting out for.

At the other end Harris harried Joe Root with his late away swing, before
nipping one down the slope to catch him lbw, before having Kevin Pietersen
caught behind fourth ball. Not bad going for a 34-year-old whose career
blossomed at Queensland after 10 years in and out at South Australia.

Here he was again Australia's best pace bowler as Clarke turned, in the
afternoon session, to the fraternal persistence of Harris and Peter Siddle, who
bowling in tandem have about them the look of a pair of energetically capable
landscape gardeners, brawny arms, walking back to bowl as though striding off to
clear an infestation of brambles from the back lawn.

After tea, Harris set about roughing up Bairstow with a few skiddy chest-high
bouncers. A fallibility against Kemar Roach's vicious high-speed throat ball has
been unfairly interpreted as a weakness against short bowing generally.

Here though it was Smith - also a renowned purveyor of short stuff - that did
for Bairstow, who shovelled a full toss straight back to the bowler. A slightly
streaky innings of 67 was a further step towards nailing down the No6 position
after two years in the late middle order.

This was an encouraging day for these Australia all-sorts: callow, injury-prone
but brilliantly well-captained and possessing in Harris a fast-bowling rhino of
heart and skill, who will return this morning with every hope of sweeping away
the tail with the second new ball.

Captions:

Australia's Steve Smith, centre, celebrates having England's Matt

Prior caught behind by Brad Haddin Tom Jenkins for the Guardian

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 19, 2013 Friday 7:25 PM GMT

Wolverhampton Central Mosque terror attack: Ukrainian students questioned over
bombs;
Officers searched the headquarters of the software firm where the two men were
on placements

BYLINE: Paul Peachey

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 550 words


Two Ukrainian engineering students aged 22 and 25 respectively on work
placements at a hi-tech computer company were being questioned yesterday after
police revealed they had uncovered evidence of a third bombing close to a mosque
in the West Midlands.

Police said they found a blast site on a roundabout near Wolverhampton Central
Mosque late on Thursday, after a raid on an industrial unit in Birmingham. The
blast was the third in three weeks in the area.

The men were being questioned on suspicion of involvement in an act of terrorism
after explosions near mosques in Walsall and Tipton dating back to June 21, in
which nobody was hurt. Officers discovered debris from the third explosion on a
roundabout in Wolverhampton following "intelligence".

The blast in Wolverhampton was believed to date back to June 28 when officers
were sent to the scene following reports of an explosion but nothing was found.
Nothing was found inside the mosque itself which was searched by police after
the arrests and has since reopened for worship.

Anti-terrorist officers yesterday searched the headquarters of software company
Delcam where the two men were on work placements. Chief executive Clive Martell,
who was at the factory yesterday, said one of the men, both engineering students
in eastern Europe, had been at the company for four months, the other for two.

"The two men were on work placements with us, but were not employees of the
business," he said. "They were around halfway through the course and we
understand that they met each other whilst on the placement."

The company works on cutting edge computer software used in the manufacture of
yachts, specialist trainers for athletes, and planes, according to the company's
website, which has subsidiaries in Europe, the United States and Asia.

The company has established links with a series of universities in Ukraine and
accepts students from across Europe for work placements at its headquarters.
Police yesterday declined to say if they were investigating a wider link to
extremist groups in eastern Europe. Amnesty International warned in 2008 about a
rise in violent attacks against members of ethnic minorities in Ukraine.

British fans were also warned about the possibility of attacks during the 2012
European football championships co-hosted by Ukraine after racist hate signs
were displayed at grounds before the tournament started but there were no
serious outbreaks of violence.

The two men were arrested shortly after police released CCTV footage of people
they wanted to speak to in connection with the attacks. One of the men was
arrested near the Delcam site and another inside, said police.

West Midlands Police Assistant Chief Constable Marcus Beale, who is leading the
investigation, said that the two men had been staying in Birmingham. He said
officers were regarding the incident as part of a wider terrorist investigation
into explosions at two other mosques in recent weeks but added: "I have no
information to suggest that there are further threats to mosques in our region."

Iftikhar Ahmed, of Wolverhampton Central Mosque, which reopened for prayers
today, said there were anxieties in the area. "There are concerns in the
community but we have faith in the police and intelligence services that the
incidents are being dealt with."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                              July 19, 2013 Friday

Anniversary of the Terrorist Attacks in Burgas, Bulgaria and Buenos Aires,
Argentina

LENGTH: 84 words


July 18, 2013

Marie Harf

Deputy Spokesperson , Washington, DC

The United States notes that July 18 marks the one-year anniversary of the
terrorist attack in Burgas, Bulgaria, that claimed the lives of six innocent
civilians and the 19 year anniversary of the attack in Buenos Aires, Argentina
that killed 85 innocent victims. We extend our condolences to the people of
Bulgaria, Argentina, and Israel for the tragic loss of life and call for the
perpetrators of these attacks to be brought to justice.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      July 20, 2013 Saturday 11:24 AM GMT

Police link mosque attacks as start of terror campaign

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill, Crime and Security Editor

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 617 words


Three bomb attacks at mosques in the West Midlands were an attempt to launch an
anti-Muslim terrorist campaign, detectives believe.

The team investigating the attacks is linking all three devices which exploded
in Walsall, Wolverhampton and Tipton in the run up to and during the early days
of Ramadan.

The device which exploded outside the Kanzul Iman Masjid mosque in Tipton on
July 12 - the day of the funeral of Fusilier Lee Rigby in Bury - was packed with
nails and could have caused multiple injuries had it gone off when the car park
of the building was crowded.

One counter-terrorism source said: "The Tipton bomb was a horrible device. If it
had exploded at another time there could have been major loss of life".

The bomb at the Aisha Mosque in Walsall exploded on June 21 and the device
outside Wolverhampton Central Mosque went off on June 28.

The site of the Wolverhampton explosion - on a traffic roundabout close to the
mosque - was not discovered, however, until after the arrests of two Ukrainian
men, aged 25 and 22, in connection with the blasts. The suspects are believed to
be engineering students who were on work placements at a software business in
Small Heath which has been searched, as has the property where they are thought
to have shared a room.

The men were arrested under terror legislation on suspicion of being involved in
the commission, preparation or instigation of an act of terrorism and can be
held for 14 days before being charged or released.

It is understood that bomb disposal teams have found further explosive materials
leading to concerns that the terror campaign might have continued.

The incidents have heightened community tensions ahead of a rally tomorrow in
Birmingham city centre by the English Defence League and a counter-demonstration
by anti-fascist groups.

More than 1,000 police will be on duty in the city including an estimated 50
specialist public order units. The West Midlands force has asked for extra
officers to be drafted in from other forces in the region and the Metropolitan
Police is also thought to be on standby to provide "mutual aid" assistance.

Warning letters have been sent by some schools in Birmingham advising pupils and
their families to keep out of the centre of the city tomorrow.

One headmaster urged "all parents to be aware that tomorrow in Birmingham City
Centre there is a large EDL Rally". He added: "We have been asked by WM Police
to alert all parents to ask that our parents and students keep out of the city
centre tomorrow Saturday 20th July for their own safety".

The parent of one pupil said the police appeared to be declaring the city centre
a "no-go zone" but a police spokesman said their advice to the public was that
the city would remain open for business as usual.

The attempted bombings appear to be the latest terror attack by a lone wolf or
small self-starter cell, the sort of act that the intelligence services find
most difficult to detect but believe will become more common.

Assistant Chief Constable Marcus Beale, who is leading the investigation into
the bombings, said the arrests had led to a detailed forensic search in
Wolverhampton which had uncovered the seat of an explosion and debris.

Mr Beale added: "I have no information to suggest that there are further threats
to mosques in our region."

The officer continued: "The investigation is being led by specialist officers
and staff from our Counter Terrorism Unit who are being supported by a range of
departments from across the force. We recognise the impact news of the latest
find will have on the communities of Wolverhampton and further afield. We're
working hard to complete our enquiries so that the area can be returned to
normality."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 20, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Police link mosque attacks as start of terror campaign

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 265 words


Three bomb attacks at mosques in the West Midlands were an attempt to start an
anti-Muslim terrorist campaign, detectives believe.

The team investigating the attacks are linking all three devices that exploded
in Walsall, Wolverhampton and Tipton in the run-up to and during the early days
of Ramadan.

The device that exploded outside the Kanzul Iman Masjid mosque in Tipton on July
12 - the day of the funeral of Fusilier Lee Rigby in Bury - was packed with
nails and could have caused multiple injuries had it gone off when the car park
of the building was crowded.

One counter-terrorism source said: "The Tipton bomb was a horrible device.

If it had exploded at another time there could have been major loss of life."

The bomb at the Aisha Mosque in Walsall exploded on June 21 and the device
outside Wolverhampton Central Mosque went off on June 28.

The site of the Wolverhampton explosion - on a traffic roundabout close to the
mosque - was not discovered, however, until after the arrests of two men in
their twenties in connection with the blasts.

The suspects are believed to be students who were on work placements at a local
business, which has been searched, as has the property where they live. The men
can be held for 14 days before being charged or released.

It is understood that bomb disposal teams have found further explosive materials
leading to concerns that the terrorism campaign might have continued.

Marcus Beale, Assistant Chief Constable of West Midlands Police, who is leading
the investigation into the bombings, said "There are further threats to mosques
in our region."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 21, 2013 Sunday

Tons of cotton burnt in Syria's Hasaka due to terror attack

LENGTH: 102 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Hasaka: Terrorists attacked with a mortar shell a cotton collection centre in
al-Melbieh area in Hasaka countryside, causing huge amounts of cotton to burst
into flames.

According to the centre's director, Samir al-Mushref, 25 thousand tons of cotton
worth millions of Syrian pounds were burnt in the attack.

Al-Mushref added that the civil defence forces rushed to the area and
distinguished the fire.

The centre received about 150 thousand tons of cotton last year.

M. Ismael

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1915 gmt 20 Jul 13

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 21, 2013 Sunday 11:33 AM GMT

Murdered Muslim pensioner was victim of a terror attack say police as they
question Ukrainian man held over mosque bomb attacks on suspicion of his killing

BYLINE: ANNA EDWARDS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1103 words



     ·    Police granted extra time to question Ukrainian men in connection with
          mosque explosions
     ·    One of two men arrested in connection with murder of Mohammed Saleem
     ·    Mr Saleem, 75, stabbed and stamped on as he walked back from mosque


A pensioner who was stabbed to death on his way home from mosque was the victim
of a terrorist attack, police said today.

West Midlands Terror cops have rearrested a Ukrainian man on suspicion of the
murder of Mohammed Saleem, three days after he was arrested over a series of
bomb attacks on mosques in the west midlands.

Mohammed 75, was stabbed to death yards from his home in Birmingham in April as
he returned from prayers at his local mosque.

The eastern European man, 25, is one of two people being held over recent bomb
attacks near mosques in Walsall, Tipton and Wolverhampton.

Father of seven Mohammed was returning from prayers at his local mosque in April
when he was stabbed in the back three times, just yards from his home in the
Small Heath area of Birmingham.

Mohammed's family has been informed of this latest development in connection
with his murder.

ACC Marcus Beale, from West Midlands Police, leading the investigation said:
'The murder of Mohammed Saleem now forms part of the wider West Midlands Counter
Terrorism Unit Investigation.'

Mr Saleem, a retired baker, suffered from arthritis and was walking with a stick
when he was attacked.

His wallet was not taken.

The stabbing of Mr Saleem, a highly-regarded and well-known figure in the local
community, was described by detectives at the time as a 'despicable' attack on a
defenceless pensioner.

A joint family statement read during a press conference at West Midlands Police
headquarters on May 2 described Mr Saleem as 'a much-loved and respected
community member'.

Today they added: 'We feel relieved that we are getting somewhere because things
were going very quiet and we were getting worried that there was no progress
being made and there were no clues - so this is really good progress.

'It [her father's murder] was an act of terrorism because he was killed for his
faith and that is exactly what the police have arrested this man for, on
terrorism grounds.

'The police have done a good job so let's hope he does go to court and a trial
goes ahead, that would be great.

'It has been impossible (without my father) to be honest, since his burial,
which was only last week, we had a very delayed wait for the funeral because of
the need for the two post mortems to be carried out.

'I think now we have laid him to rest we have been holding in all that grief and
we were trying to relieve it but it had been really hard.

'It is the reality of, dad's not here, it is Ramadan, he loves Ramadan, it was
such a nice atmosphere around that time, it was one of his best times of the
year and the children are very close to him.

'Personally my children have been affected very much by it, firstly they
couldn't understand why somebody would hurt their granddad because he is an old
man and secondly they're frightened, especially my youngest.

'He was having nightmares and said he was scared that they might come and get
him because they got granddad and I said they won't get you.

'It is all about reassurance and telling them he is at peace now but I think it
has been a massive shock and now the grieving process has set in.

'At the time of his death, my sister was pregnant with her baby and he was
really excited but sadly he passed away two weeks before she was born and that
is very tragic because he was really excited to have another little
granddaughter.

'It is a shame she will never meet her granddad.'

Mrs Khan went on to pay tribute to her father who was regarded as a 'respected
member of the community' and staunchly anti-crime.

She said: 'He was very family oriented, he loved children and was very good with
his grandkids. As a grandfather he was quite a powerful figure, quite assertive
he knew his mind, he was very focused, he wanted us to learn, go to university,
he wanted us to be happy and settled in our lives.

'He was very much against crime, that is why this is so sad.

'He grew up in Small Heath, most of us have moved away to pursue a family and
career, but he loved his community and he wanted to stay there despite the fact
it wasn't the safest of places at times.

'He was very much against crime and drugs and was always advocating a good,
clean, healthy way of life.

'We are hoping this arrest can bring the family closure.

'It means a lot to everybody in Birmingham, the whole community because the
safety of the city is important and if there are certain individuals going
around blowing up places of worship and attacking the elderly, vulnerable people
in this manner it is very dangerous.

'We all want to be safe in our city, my daughter is hoping to go to Aston
University, I wasn't keen to send her to Birmingham because I didn't think it
was safe.

'A lot of people want that reassurance that the police are fighting crime and
they are working hard and I for one did have concerns and I am glad they have
got such a good result.'

He had been married to Said, 69, for 50 years and the couple had 22
grandchildren.

Yesterday, counter-terrorism officers were granted extra time to question the
Ukrainian nationals in connection with the explosions.

A sitting of Westminster Magistrates' Court granted officers up to seven days to
question the men, who were initially detained on suspicion of being involved in
the commission, preparation or instigation of an act of terrorism.

Following the men's arrest the 'seat of an explosion and debris' were found on a
roundabout near the Wolverhampton Central Mosque.

Police believe the debris came from a device that exploded on the city's
Fiveways roundabout at about 9.15am on June 28.

The remnants of a home-made explosive device were found outside a mosque in
Walsall on Saturday June 22, and another device, containing nails, exploded near
a mosque in Binfield Road, Tipton, on July 12.

No one was injured by any of the explosions.

Speaking after police were granted further time to question the two suspects, Mr
Beale said: 'We continue to investigate the circumstances surrounding the three
explosions and are appealing to anyone who may have seen anything suspicious
around these dates to contact us.

'We do not underestimate the impact this will have on communities across the
West Midlands.

'The support of all communities has been fantastic with wider faith communities
coming together to show solidarity.

'I would appeal to people, if you have the smallest piece of information that my
help the investigation then please contact us on 101 at the earliest
opportunity.'

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 22, 2013 Monday

Police treat pensioner killing as terror attack: Mosque blast suspect held in
connection with murder Two Ukrainians in custody over series of bombings

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 518 words


Police said yesterday that they were treating the murder of an Asian man near a
mosque as a terrorist attack, and have arrested a man already being held over an
alleged bombing campaign against Muslims.

Mohammed Saleem, 82, was stabbed to death in April as he walked the few hundred
yards from a Birmingham mosque to his home with the aid of a stick.

Counter-terrorism detectives arrested a 25-year-old man on Saturday in
connection with the murder, which they described as a "further act of
terrorism". He is one of two Ukrainian men arrested on Thursday over three bomb
attacks in a month on mosques in the West Midlands.

Saleem was stabbed three times in the back at 10.10pm on 29 April in the Small
Heath area of Birmingham. Images taken from CCTV in the aftermath of the attack
showed a white male wearing a cap running away, and detectives said a racial
motive was a line of inquiry.

Saleem's funeral, delayed because of the police investigation, was attended by
more than 5,000 people.

After the arrests for bomb attacks against mosques in Walsall on 21 June and
Tipton on 12 July, police discovered a third explosion had taken place on 28
June close to Wolverhampton Central mosque.

On Saturday, police said one of the two men arrested had also been arrested on
suspicion of Saleem's murder.

The investigation is being led by Assistant Chief Constable Marcus Beale, who
said: "The murder of Mohammed Saleem now forms part of the wider West Midlands
counter-terrorism unit investigation."

Detectives continue to examine if the murder of Saleem and the attacks against
the mosques are linked.

They are also investigating whether those arrested had links to any groups, such
as far-right violent extremists, in the UK or abroad. The men are believed to
have only been in Britain for months, based at a Small Heath software company on
a work placement. The Labour MP for Birmingham Ladywood, Shabana Mahmood, said:
"I welcome the news that an arrest has been made in connection with the murder
of Mr Saleem, a much-loved member of our community.

"Although nothing can bring him back, the fact that a significant step has been
taken towards getting justice for Mr Saleem will be a comfort to his family and
the community in Small Heath."

Theresa May, the home secretary said she had been "shocked and sickened" by the
murder and attacks. "The West Midlands Police have my full support in their
ongoing investigation," she said in a statement. "I have spoken with Assistant
Chief Constable Marcus Beale and I have asked that I am kept up to date with the
latest developments."

Warrants to hold the two men for a further seven days under counter-terrorism
laws were granted on Saturday by City of Westminster magistrates.

Shortly after Saleem's death, one of his daughters, Shazia Khan, said the attack
was "a premeditated, brutal attack, pre-planned, intended to kill".

She added: "I cannot see him having any enemies being so full of hate to do this
to him. He was an old man. He had no other agenda in his life. We just cannot
understand it."

Captions:

Mohammed Saleem was stabbed as he walked home from a Birmingham mosque

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                              July 22, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Stabbing of Muslim was terror attack say police

BYLINE: AIDAN RADNEDGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 274 words


A GRANDFATHER who was stabbed to death on his way home from a mosque was
targeted in an 'act of terrorism', police announced yesterday. Mohammed Saleem's
death has been linked to three recent bomb attacks on mosques and a suspect has
been taken in for further questioning by officers.

The 75-year-old's family yesterday spoke of their relief that there had been
some progress in the murder case, which they were afraid had gone cold.

'We feel relieved that we are getting somewhere because things were going very
quiet,' said Mr Saleem's daughter Shazia Khan, 45. 'It was an act of terrorism
because he was killed for his faith.' Police have re-arrested a 25-year-old
Ukrainian man three days after he and a 22-year-old were held over a series of
bomb attacks on mosques in the West Midlands.

The remains of a home-made explosive were discovered outside a mosque in Walsall
on June 22, while a nail bomb exploded near a mosque in Tipton on July 12.

Killed: Mr Saleem After the two students were arrested on Thursday, police found
debris on a roundabout near Wolverhampton Central Mosque.

Some reports had suggested the attempted attacks, in which nobody was injured,
were reprisals following the killing of Drummer Lee Rigby in Woolwich,
south-east London, on May 22.

Father-of-seven Mr Saleem was returning from Green Lane Mosque in Small Heath,
Birmingham, at 10.30pm on April 29 when he when stabbed in the back three times.
The retired baker was also battered about the head.

Asst Ch Con Marcus Beale, who is leading the investigation said: 'The murder of
Mohammed Saleem now forms part of the wider West Midlands Counter Terrorism Unit
investigation.'

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Killed: Mr Saleem

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             July 23, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;

Schoolboy speaks of terror at bomb attack that left him ablaze

BYLINE: GARRETT HARGAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 423 words


THE schoolboy who suffered second degree burns in a petrol bomb attack has told
how his skin melted after he was hit by the deadly device.

Kevin Grint (11) has spoken for the first time about the harrowing ordeal, which
occurred last week in a Londonderry playing field.

He recalled: "I saw a petrol bomb flying down and it hit off the ground and I
was on fire."

The Derry boy added that two women, witnessing the attack simply walked on,
leaving his two young friends to come to his aid by putting out the flames on
his back.

The terrified child explained how he ran home screaming: "I''m on fire, I''m on
fire, someone threw a petrol bomb and I''m on fire, I''m melting."

Kevin was rushed to the Royal Victoria Hospital in Belfast where he was treated
for burns. The incident happened at around 4.45pm last Thursday at Bishop''s
Park, Creggan.

Glad to be home, Kevin said: "I am feeling really good and I am happy to see all
of my friends. I''ve a few visits to the hospital to make but I am in no pain."

"  His mother Donna is delighted that Kevin's injuries aren't life-threatening.
However, the family will not know until later this week the extent of his
injuries when he returns to the Royal Victoria Hospital for a follow-up
assessment.

Donna believes it was an isolated incident without motive but she has urged her
son's attackers to hand themselves into police.

"Stuff like this doesn''t happen often, I don''t think it is likely something
similar will happen again any time soon. Parents just need to keep a watch on
what their children are doing, like I do myself," she said.

Police are looking for two boys aged between 12- to 14-years-old who they
believe threw the device at Kevin as he sat on a bench in the park.

Donna said: "If they have a shred of decency they should admit what they have
done and if their parents know or even think their child did this, then they
need to do the decent thing too. Friends of Kevin, who were also at the park,
seen the boys who did it but Kevin didn''t."

"  Although the attack won't deter her son from playing at the park again, Donna
explained that it has taken its toll: "He hasn''t been outside of the front
garden since he got back from hospital. He''s been in bed resting, it kept him
up last night so he didn''t get much sleep."

Local Sinn Fein councillor, Kevin Campbell added: "There is a lot of relief
within the community now that the young boy is back home. There was uproar in
the area after it happened."

The PSNI has appealed for information to help find those responsible for the
attack.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Victim: Kevin Grint

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2013 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 25, 2013 Thursday

"Terrorists" sheltered by Greece may attack Turkish, American interests - daily

LENGTH: 1321 words


Text of report in English by Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman website on 25 July

A threat originating from the lack of cooperation on the part of the Greek
government in cracking down on an ultra-leftist terrorist group that targets
Turkish and US interests has escalated into one of planned suicide attacks,
according to intelligence sources, Today's Zaman has learned.

The members of the Revolutionary People's Liberation Party/Front (DHKP/C) who
Greece has been deporting to Syria due to international pressure instead of
extraditing them to Turkey are preparing for a series of large-scale suicide
attacks in major Turkish cities such as Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir, according to
government sources, who shared the confidential reports with Today's Zaman.

Strict measures have been taken in the border provinces of Turkey, particularly
those that neighbour Syria, against these possible terrorist attacks. The
National Police Department warned all security units across Turkey about the
planned attacks by DHKP/C members against several government institutions and
political parties. According to warnings that the police sent to security units,
the DHKP/C is preparing to target headquarters and branch offices of political
parties, in particular the branch offices of the Justice and Development Party
(AK Party). The police also warned the security units to take strict security
measures around the headquarters and branch offices of political parties.

The issue of cooperation on terrorism between Turkey and Greece, which has been
lacking for years, was among the topics on the agenda in a meeting between Greek
Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Evangelos Venizelos and his Turkish
counterpart, Ahmet Davutoglu, on July 19 in Ankara, Turkish diplomatic sources
said.

While Turkish diplomatic sources downplay the lack of progress on the issue,
intelligence sources indicate there has been no improvement on the Greek side in
cracking down on terror cells that breed and shelter terrorists attacking
Turkey.

"There is a consensus between the two countries on the issue of terrorism. The
two countries will work in cooperation against all terrorist organizations,"
said the official from the Turkish Foreign Ministry, without elaborating on the
details.

The decades-old terrorism problem has created serious troubles between both
countries as Athens turned a blind eye to suspects for whom its neighbour had
issued a red notice regarding their terrorist actions.

Turkey complains that Greece did not take any concrete steps to extradite the
suspects to Turkey and in fact condoned their training in the Lavrion refugee
camp, which operates under the auspices of the United Nations. The issue became
heightened when a suicide attack at the entrance of the US Embassy in Ankara on
Feb. 1 set the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in motion to take measures
against the members of the DHKP/C.

Terrorist group may again target US interests in Turkey

Ecevit AzanlA±, who carried out the bombing at the US Embassy that killed a
guard as well as himself, was among the terrorists who were trained at Lavrion,
before taking a ferry to Turkey on Jan. 30. He then travelled to Ankara to carry
out the deadly attack, according to Turkish intelligence sources.

Greece started to expel terrorists at the Lavrion refugee camp after pressure
from the US. But instead of handing them over to Turkish authorities,
intelligence last month indicated that the terrorists were making their way to
Syria's northern Latakia Governorate.

Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has provided sanctuary and a training camp for
the terrorists coming from Greece since May, according to security units. It was
also reported that only suicide bombers were send to Syria while other
terrorists remain in Greece.

Relations between Turkey and Greece - former foes turned partners - gained
momentum after the meeting of Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and Turkish
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan in early March. Samaras also promised
support during the March 4 meeting. He said: "Terrorist events not only have
negative consequences for Turkey and Greece, but they also have consequences for
the whole world. We must fight against it."

A few days after the meeting in which Erdogan voiced his demand about the
closure of the Lavrion training camp, Greek police announced that they had
closed all of the terrorist camps and detained 14 members of the DHKP/C in their
operations against the suspects. Among the suspects were also terrorists
identified by Turkish intelligence units who were in preparation for attacks;
however, Greece set the suspects free after they gave statements to the police
on the grounds that they have not participated in any attacks.

After the prime minister's meeting in Istanbul, Greece also planned to extradite
to Turkey a leader of the terrorist Marxist-Leninist Communist Party (MLKP).
This move strengthened the ties between the countries, but Greece declined to
extradite the people that Turkey has suspected for many years. Yet the latest
reports that were released after the leaders' meeting say that the Court of
Appeals nullified the decision to extradite Zeki Gurbuz to Turkey. Gurbuz was
issued a red notice for terrorist activities by Turkey, but will be released
according to the ruling.

Gurbuz was not the only one sought by Turkey and Interpol but released by a
Greek court. The Thessaloniki Supreme Court decided not to extradite Nevzat
KalaycA± to Turkey, a Turkish citizen who was sought for being a member of the
DHKP/C and attending illegal activities in Izmir between 1993-1996, by Turkish
security units and Interpol in October 2012. There are also some members who
have been issued six arrest warrants, such as Ali Ercan G., who is reported to
be in Greece now.

Turkish security units sent their reports on 15 long-sought suicide bombers to
all countries in September 2012. Specifying the fact that the terrorists receive
special training in Greece's Lavrion camp, the National Intelligence
Organization (MA°T) and National Police Department contacted Greek officials.
Photos and information about the terrorists, who have been making preparations
for suicide bombings, were shared with Greek intelligence units.

After the information-sharing between the two countries, Greek police took 14
people, including Fadik AdA±yaman, Nevzat KalaycA±, Ali Temiz and Havva Suicmez
, into custody. However, 13 suspects were set free after being questioned; only
Suicmez was sent to prison. Among the information that was shared with Greece,
the names of the terrorists Huseyin CakA±l, CaAYdaAY Ozan YavanoAYlu, Fadik
AdA±yaman, Mustafa Yilmaz, Azerif Turunc, Ali Temiz, Nevzat KalaycA±, A°smail
Zat, A°leni AcA±kgoz, Kadir Kaya, , Mehmet Yaman Hasan KoAYar, Zohre Yilmaz and
Havva Suicmez, who started hunger strikes in several prisons in 1996, were also
on the list.

Turkish requests rejected

In spite of the warnings from Turkey, four terrorists in Greece, Ali Ercan G.,
Seval A., Muharrem K., Murat K., who received training in Greece's Lavrion camp,
carried out attacks in Turkey. While Ali Ercan G. and Seval A. organized attacks
on police checkpoints in Istanbul, Muharrem K. raided the headquarters of the AK
Party in Ankara and Murat K. carried out an assault on the Ministry of Justice.
Azemsettin K. and Bulut Y. were arrested in Edirne after they entered Turkey. A
police search for Harika K. and Ferih E. is still under way.

Today's Zaman asked the Greek Embassy to comment on the allegations raised in
this story. However, the embassy did not responded by the time the paper went to
print.

The Lavrion refugee camp in Greece is known to be home to members of several
illegal organizations, including the terrorist Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)
and the DHKP/C, which are recognized by Turkey, the United States and the
European Union as terrorist organizations.

Source: Zaman website, Istanbul, in English 25 Jul 13

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                             July 25, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Labour demands answers over terror attacks in city

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 453 words


Shadow Home Secretary Yvette Cooper has written to her opposite number to demand
answers about the Government's response to terror attacks against Muslim
communities in the West Midlands.

Ms Cooper wrote to Home Secretary Theresa May after a 25-year-old Ukrainian
student was charged with murdering a Muslim grandfather in Birmingham and an
alleged bombing campaign against three Black Country mosques.

Mohammed Pavlo Lapshyn appeared this week at Westminster Magistrates' Court
accused of the terrorist-related murder of Mohammed Saleem.

The 82-year-old retired baker was stabbed three times in the back as he returned
home from prayers at his Small Heath mosque in April.

Pavlo Lapshyn, who was in Birmingham on a summer work placement with a software
firm in Small Heath, was also charged in connection with the bombing of the
Aisha Mosque, Walsall, the Kanz Ul Iman Masjid Mosque in Tipton and
Wolverhampton's Central Mosque.

In the letter, seen by the Post, Ms Cooper, said: "The charging of a suspect is
welcome. These are disturbing and sickening acts of terrorism."

Saleem "  Ms Cooper went on to ask if the new Tackling Extremism and
Radicalisation Taskforce had met to discuss the attacks, which were declared
terror incidents by police.

The Prime Minister launched the new terror task force to crack down on extremism
in the wake of the horrific murder of Drummer Lee Rigby, in May.

Lapshyn The cabinet-level group is supposed to monitor trends in radicalisation
and tackle "poisonous narratives".

Ms Cooper added: "It is important that the Tackling Extremism and Radicalisation
Taskforce looks at attacks on mosques and on Muslim communities across the
country as well as the violent Islamist extremists that attempted to divide us
in May.

"Has the Taskforce met to discuss the attacks? Given that West Midlands Police
were publicly clear that these were terrorism- related offences two weeks ago
and given that at least three explosive devices were planted - including a
device with nails - the public will rightly expect the Taskforce to have met to
discuss these attacks."

The letter also revealed that the police had struggled to have CCTV pictures of
the suspect published in national media.

Ms Cooper added: "I have been concerned by reports that the police had
difficulty in getting images of the suspect disseminated widely througth the
national media. What support can the Home Office provide in future that ensures
images released by the police in serious cases such as this are given the widest
possible dissemination?" ¦ A preliminary hearing has been set for Lapshyn at The
Old Bailey on August 2. The postgraduate engineering student, from
Dnipropetrovesk in central Ukraine, has been remanded in custody.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mohammed Saleem
Pavlo Lapshyn

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMP


               Copyright 2013 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                             July 25, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Teen in attack and 'abduction' probe;
BRUTAL ; Terror as gang climbs from van and targets victim

BYLINE: Gavin McInally

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 401 words


An investigation was under way yesterday amid fears a young man was abducted
after being attacked on a busy Paisley street.

Stunned members of the public watched as three thugs clambered out of a white
van in Renfrew Road and began to chase after their victim, who is thought to be
in his late teens.

After catching the teenager, the gang battered him, before all four got into the
van, which then sped off.

Last night, cops had yet to identify the victim and it remained unclear whether
or not he had been forced to get into the vehicle.

Officers have been conducting door-to-door enquiries and trawling through CCTV
footage in a bid to get a better idea of what happened.

Detective Inspector Julie Henry, who is based at Paisley Police Office, said:
"At this time, we do not know if the man went willingly or not and would
therefore appeal to anyone who saw the attack take place, or who has any
information about the men involved, to contact us."

The drama began at around 8.40pm on Tuesday, while a number of passers-by were
in Renfrew Road.

Police received several reports about the incident but, when officers arrived in
Renfrew Road, the van had already fled the scene.

Det Insp Henry added: "From our enquiries so far, we know that the man had been
in Renfrew Road, near to the McDonald's restaurant, when he was chased and then
attacked by three men who exited a white van, possibly a Renault or Peugeot,
which was parked near to the Esso garage on the opposite side of the road.

"It would then appear that all four men went back to the van, which made off
along Renfrew Road, towards the Abbotsinch Retail Park roundabout.

"The three suspects ran across the road in front of vehicles and pedestrians and
it is possible that cars had to swerve or slow down to avoid them."

Police have said the victim is described as having short brown hair and wearing
a black hooded top and jogging bottoms.

The first attacker is thought to be aged around 20, 5ft 9ins tall and of slim
build.

Another of the thugs is described as around 40, stocky and with a bald or shaved
head. He was wearing a dark-coloured T-shirt and shorts.

The third suspect is believed to be in his late teens, 5ft 8ins tall, slim and
was wearing a heavy jacket - possibly leather or a duffel coat.

Anyone who has information is asked to call Paisley Police Office on 0141 532
5900 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111, where details can be given in confidence.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Scene Renfrew Road, in Paisley

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 26, 2013 Friday 9:59 PM GMT

Benghazi hero is still at Walter Reed hospital near Washington, following
surgeries to save his leg that was nearly blown off in the 2012 Libyan terror
attack

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 971 words


David Ubben, a State Department diplomatic security agent who was gravely
injured in the terror attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya, is in the
Walter Reed medical center near Washington, D.C., recuperating from injuries
that almost cost him his right leg, but until Friday was kept out of reach of
reporters.

Fox News established contact with Ubben at Walter Reed, showing only his
blurred-out face in a still photograph during a television broadcast.

But members of Congress say they are still meeting resistance from the State
Department, which is reportedly stonewalling them and denying them access to
Ubben, who is still on the federal payroll and can't speak about his Benghazi
experience without clearance from State.

Four Americans died in Benghazi on Sept.11, 2012, including Ambassador Chris
Stevens and former Navy SEALs Ty Woods and Glen Doherty. Mortar rounds launched
at the roof of the CIA Annex to the U.S. Consulate, where Ubben, Woods and
Doherty were stationed, killed the two SEALs and tore Ubben's leg to ribbons.

In October Reuters spoke with Ubben's father, a 24-year Air Force veteran who
was a master sergeant when he retired in 1995. Like his son, Rex Smith was
posted at U.S. embassies across the globe.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

David Ubben didn't speak to Fox on the record, but Utah Republican Rep. Jason
Chaffetz explained that his requests to the State Department have fallen on deaf
ears.

'While initially they said they would be helpful,'  Chaffetz told Fox, 'pretty
quickly they turned that off. And I had a meeting scheduled to go visit this
young man and then I was denied.'

In his  interview with Reuters nine months ago, Ubben's father complained that
the Obama administration might be risking other American lives.

'I do find it troubling that they have not owned up to their shortcomings,' he
said. 'In government, in the military, and in business, if something goes wrong,
you admit it, correct it, and move on.'

'Mistakes and lack of foresight do happen,' he added, but 'to attempt to delay
or cover information up, upcoming election or no, might put other people's lives
at risk and fools no one.'

Between the September attack and the November presidential election eight weeks
later, the Obama administration referred to the terror attack as a spontaneous
protest that turned ugly. In the latter stages of the campaign, President Obama
conceded that it was a terror attack, and then insisted that he had
characterized it that way from the beginning.

According to  Fox News correspondent Catherine Herridge, Ubben raced into the
Benghazi diplomatic compound to retrieve the body of Foreign Service Officer
Sean Smith, 'going back into the smoke and flames at the Benghazi consulate
multiple times until he found Smith, whom he believed to be already dead from
smoke inhalation.'

'Thank you very much for what you've done,' Smith's mother said she would like
to tell Ubben, after hearing details of how her son perished. 'Why couldn't the
government have done the same thing?'

Texas Republican Rep. Louie Gohmert told Fox that he has established a
friendship with David Ubben, a fact that tends to support the State Department's
contention that it hasn't stood in the way of Benghazi survivors speaking up.

'We don't prevent anyone from telling their story,' spokeswoman Jen Psaki said
during a July 24 briefing. 'We've helped and facilitated countless hearings,
interviews and discussions with members of Congress.'

Republican Rep. Frank Wolf of Virginia is engaged in a three-week  media blitz
to draw attention to what he says are nondisclosure agreements Benghazi
survivors were reportedly forced to sign, precluding them from talking to anyone
about what they saw.

'If these reports are accurate, it would raise serious questions about
additional restrictions the State Department has placed on those with knowledge
of the Benghazi attacks,' Wolf wrote in a July 18 letter to Secretary of State
John Kerry.

'I also worry about the impact of any [nondisclosure agreements] on
congressional efforts to understand fully what happened that night and why the
agency responded as it did.'

President Obama said in response to a question during an April 30 press
conference that he was 'not familiar with this notion that anybody's been
blocked from testifying,' about Benghazi. 'What I'll do is find out what exactly
you're referring to.'

The president hasn't addressed the issue directly since making those comments.

Marine Colonel George Bristol, who was in command of Special Forces in Northern
Africa on the day terrorists staged a military-style attack on the Benghazi
diplomatic outpost, is another witness who has so far eluded Congress.

After South Carolina Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham applied pressure, and
MailOnline told the Department of Defense that it had found Bristol's home in
Northern Virginia, the Pentagon  relentedand said it would provide members of
Congress with access to the soon-to-be-retired officer.

Gohmert said that while Ubben is a soldier doing his job, he and other members
of Congress will continue to seek information about what happened in Benghazi.

'David won't demand answers. He's just a patriot,' Gohmert told Fox. 'He will do
whatever his country charges him to do. But America needs answers.'

MailOnline has confirmed that the House Committee on Oversight and Government
Affairs is planning more Benghazi hearings after the congressional August
recess.

Chaffetz told Fox that 'we need to hear from' servicemen and women like Ubben.

'America needs to thank these people for the horrific things they went through,'
he said. 'I think if we heard from the survivors including Ubben -- as they
walked into that room -- there's wouldn't be a dry eye in the place because this
is what America is all about. These are our heroes.'

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 26, 2013 Friday 1:57 PM GMT

'People need to be more vigilant to terror attacks': Security chief warns that
the public needs to do more to report their suspicions

BYLINE: SAM WEBB

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 513 words



     ·    Terror expert says tip-offs help solve plots involving just a few
          attackers
     ·    He warns that the public must help prevent attacks in UK
     ·    Murder of Lee Rigby demonstrates danger of small cells of extremists


People need to be more prepared to pass suspicions of terrorist activity to
police, a counter-terror expert has warned.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Stuart Osborne said that there will be more deadly
attacks similar to the murder of Lee Rigby if people fail to pass on
information.

Mr Osborne's fears echo those of a report by David Anderson QC, an independent
reviewer of terrorism legislation, which suggested that 'simpler' attacks that
are harder to detect are becoming more common.

Mr Osborne, who is leaving the Metropolitan Police this week, said every major
plot he has dealt with in recent years involved innocent people who knew about
the plan but did not come forward.

He said: 'In all those instances, if the people that had known about it, if they
had come to us and given us that information, we would have been able to do
something a lot sooner and the country would be a much safer place.

'There are some very dangerous and very committed individuals out there that
have got deadly terrorist intent, and if people really don't start coming
forward and reporting that activity, especially that lower level stuff where
they're looking to do something without the wider command and control, then
there's a real strong possibility that we're going to get more attacks and
there's going to be more fatalities.'

The risk of smaller attacks was illustrated by the murder of soldier Lee Rigby,
who was stabbed to death outside Woolwich Barracks in south east London in May.
Two men have been charged with his murder.

While the threat of larger, internationally-inspired atrocities remains, the
range of threats facing the UK is spreading, Mr Osborne said.

The officer, who has been with the Met for 32 years, said: 'We'll be looking at
the really high-end plots, complicated plots that attack infrastructure,
aircraft, mass casualties, right down to a few individuals plotting something
with basic implements.

'The range is spreading. Wherever there is a weakness, the terrorists are
looking to exploit it.'

Counter-terrorism teams are also monitoring the growing threat of far-right
extremism.

'There's a unit there that is actively looking for extremism on the right-wing
side in the same way that we're looking for it on the international terrorism
side,' Mr Osborne said.

'So we're applying the same approach to the two different groups.

'We've seen greater growth in right-wing extremism but that's not been followed
up by activity.

'So we're carefully watching what's happening in terms of the media, propaganda,
the messages that are coming out.'

In March this year, Home Office Minister James Brokenshire revealed that one in
10 cases referred to an anti-radicalisation scheme concerned the far-right.

He also warned that groups such as the English Defence League could 'stoke
radicalisation' by providing a gateway through which supporters could move on to
more extreme groups.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 26, 2013 Friday 5:58 AM GMT

The lone wolf is the deadliest predator: Security chief says public must be
vigilant of small-scale terrorist attacks

BYLINE: SAM WEBB

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 538 words



     ·    Terror expert says tip-offs help solve plots involving just a few
          attackers
     ·    He warns that the public must help prevent attacks in UK
     ·    Murder of Lee Rigby demonstrates danger of small cells of extremists


Terrorists will succeed with more deadly small-scale attacks if members of the
public fail to pass their suspicions on to police, the outgoing national lead
for counter-terror investigations has warned.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Stuart Osborne said tip-offs are particularly
needed in relation to smaller, less sophisticated plots that are hatched outside
international networks.

He echoed a report by the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation, David
Anderson QC, earlier this month, which suggested that simpler attacks are
becoming more common.

This type of plot is much more difficult for counter-terrorism teams to detect.

Mr Osborne, who is leaving the Metropolitan Police this week, said every major
plot he has dealt with in recent years involved innocent people who knew about
the plan but did not come forward.

He said: 'In all those instances, if the people that had known about it, if they
had come to us and given us that information, we would have been able to do
something a lot sooner and the country would be a much safer place.

"There are some very dangerous and very committed individuals out there that
have got deadly terrorist intent, and if people really don't start coming
forward and reporting that activity, especially that lower level stuff where
they're looking to do something without the wider command and control, then
there's a real strong possibility that we're going to get more attacks and
there's going to be more fatalities.'

The risk of smaller attacks was illustrated by the murder of soldier Lee Rigby,
who was stabbed to death outside Woolwich Barracks in south east London in May.
Two men have been charged with his murder.

While the threat of larger, internationally-inspired atrocities remains, the
range of threats facing the UK is spreading, Mr Osborne said.

The officer, who has been with the Met for 32 years, said: 'We'll be looking at
the really high-end plots, complicated plots that attack infrastructure,
aircrafts, mass casualties, right down to a few individuals plotting something
with basic implements. The range is spreading. Wherever there is a weakness, the
terrorists are looking to exploit it.'

Counter-terrorism teams are also monitoring the growing threat of far-right
extremism.

'There's a unit there that is actively looking for extremism on the right-wing
side in the same way that we're looking for it on the international terrorism
side,' Mr Osborne said. 'So we're applying the same approach to the two
different groups.

'We've seen greater growth in right-wing extremism but that's not been followed
up by activity. So we're carefully watching what's happening in terms of the
media, propaganda, the messages that are coming out.'

In March this year, Home Office Minister James Brokenshire revealed that one in
10 cases referred to an anti-radicalisation scheme concerned the far-right.

He also warned that groups such as the English Defence League could 'stoke
radicalisation' by providing a gateway through which supporters could move on to
more extreme groups.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 27, 2013 Saturday

Seven Pakistan Coast Guard soldiers killed in Balochistan terror attack

LENGTH: 143 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Karachi, 27 July: Seven jawans [soldiers] embraced martyrdom while five others
got injured when some 30 to 40 terrorists attacked Kalki check post of Pakistan
Coast Guards [PCG] in the early hours of Saturday [27 July] some 90 km west of
Gawadar port near Pakistan-Iran border a Coast Guards press release here said.

According to the press release the assailants who came in six vehicles first
attacked [with] rocket propelled grenades and later used small firearms. The PCG
jawans returned the fire and inflicted heavy casualties forcing them to retreat.
The terrorists also took away the bodies of their wounded men.

A wide search operation has been launched in the area to trace the perpetrators.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1052gmt
27 Jul 13

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Sunderland Echo

                              July 29, 2013 Monday

Man jailed for stun-gun terror attack

BYLINE: Karon Kelly

LENGTH: 301  words


A MAN who let off a stun gun, after he was wrongly accused of attacking the home
of a heart transplant patient, has been jailed.

Mark Heslop, of Washington, caused terror when he discharged the weapon, which
was disguised as a mobile phone.

Newcastle Crown Court heard the 23-year-old had been mistakenly blamed for an
attack with a metal bar on a Washington house where a heart patient lived with
her partner and two-year-old child.

In response he took the illegal weapon, passed to him by a pal, and pressed the
trigger as he approached the house.

When the door was slammed shut by the terrified family, he started to kick it.

Judge Brian Forster QC jailed Heslop, of Oxford Avenue, Donwell, for three and a
half years.

Heslop, who pleaded guilty to possessing a disguised firearm, had faced a
mandatory minimum of five years behind bars but the judge said the short period
of time he had hold of the weapon made the circumstances "exceptional" and
allowed the jail term to be reduced.

Judge Forster told him: "What took place has had a considerable impact upon
those who live in the house. You were aggrieved by the false allegation having
been made against you.

"I have carefully considered the victim impact statements and it is clear from
those statements those within the house were terrified.

"It is understandable that people who have had such an experience no longer feel
safe in their own home.

"The effect of what you did was to cause terror within the house."

The court heard the householder had armed himself with a knife when his home
came under attack and his window was smashed.

During an angry confrontation the man blamed Heslop.

Glen Gatland, defending, said Heslop had never been in trouble before and was a
hard-working family man. He added he did not actually touch the person with the
stun gun.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NPSE


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 30, 2013 Tuesday

Syria condemns terrorist attacks in Iraq

LENGTH: 245 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus - Syria condemned the terrorist attacks that claimed scores of lives
and injured hundreds across Iraq.

"Syria condemns in the strongest terms the coward terrorist attacks in Baghdad
and elsewhere across Iraq that claimed scores of lives and injured hundreds of
innocent Iraqis," An official source at the Foreign and Expatriates Ministry
said on Monday.

"As it expresses solidarity with the families of victims and standing by them
during these tough circumstances, Syria urges the countries and groups behind
these criminal acts who provide terrorists with funds and weapons-already known
by everyone-to immediately stop killing Iraqis and targeting the unity and
territorial integrity of Iraq," the ministry pointed out.

"Syria calls on the UN Security Council and the international community to
condemn these acts and hold responsible the financers of terrorism and those who
are providing terrorists with weapons and inciting them to commit massacres,"
the source said.

The source added that the gravest danger today is the double-standard policies
and the fact that some countries consider the terrorism that serves their
interests legitimate in a way that jeopardizes the unity of the international
counter-terrorism front.

A series of terrorist bombings hit Iraq on Monday, claiming scores of lives and
wounding hundreds.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0000 gmt 29 Jul 13

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 30, 2013 Tuesday

Pakistan agency arrests four alleged Al-Qai'dah terrorists over jail attack

LENGTH: 290 words


Text of report published by Pakistan newspaper The News website on 30 July

Lahore: Lahore CIA claimed to have arrested four terrorists of Al-Qai'dah group
of Tehreek-e-Taleban involved in the attack on the under-training jails warders
of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa staying in Rasool Park, Samanabad, under the supervision
of National Academy for Jails Administration.

Police have also seized huge cache of weapons and grenades from the possession
of the arrested persons. CIA SP Omar Virk told reporters on Monday that they had
conducted a raid on Minar-e-Pakistan on a tip-off that some terrorists of
Al-Qai'dah group were coming there to meet their accomplice.

Police arrested four alleged terrorists named Karamat alias Goshi, Zulfiqar
alias Zulfi, Afzal alias Suhail and Abdul Hafeez alias Umair. During initial
interrogations, the arrested accused persons disclosed that their commander
named Afzaal had ordered them to attack on jail warders in which they had killed
10 officials and injured 22 others. They said that their Ameer named Junaid had
conducted reconnaissance of the warders' hostel for attack.

They have also disclosed that they had also targeted army men in Gujarat at the
bridge of the River Chenab. Further investigations are underway. Meanwhile, CIA
claimed that they had arrested four terror suspects involved in the kidnapping
of slain Governor Salman Taseer's son Shahbaz Taseer.

The arrested accused terrorists were identified as Farhad Butt, Usman Basra,
Naimatullah Uzbak and Abdul Rehman. Police claimed that the arrested accused
were involved in attack on Peshawar Airport and killing of a Shia leader, Irfan
Naqvi, in Lahore. They belong to al-Qaida group of Taleban.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 30 Jul 13

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 30, 2013 Tuesday

Terror group claims bomb attack on Greek ruling MP office

LENGTH: 117 words


Text of report by government-affiliated Greek news agency ANA-MPA website

[Unattributed report: "Terror Group Claims Bomb Attack on ND MP Office"]

The group "Zero Tolerance" claimed responsibility for the July 4 firebomb attack
targeting the office of New Democracy (ND) MP Fevronia Patrianakou in Athens, it
was announced on Monday [29 July].

A proclamation posted onto an anti-establishment website on the internet noted
that the message carried by the July 4 attack is that "anyone who contributed in
any way to the preservation of this regime sooner or later will face the
punishment of the revolutionaries".

Source: Athens News Agency-Macedonian Press Agency website, Athens, in English
1256gmt 29 Jul 13

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 31, 2013 Wednesday

Somalia's Puntland security agencies on high alert for possible terror attack

LENGTH: 334 words


Text of report in English by Somali pro-Puntland government Garoweonline website
on 31 July

Somalia's Puntland government has put the entire security sector on standby for
possible terror attacks as eight days remain the end of the holy month of
Ramadan, Garowe Online reports.

Speaking at a press conference held in Puntland capital of Garoowe [northeastern
Somalia] on Wednesday, Nugal Governor Abdi Hirsi Ali Qarjab told that Puntland
security forces launched a massive security operation in Garoowe last Tuesday to
captures vehicles with tinted windows which are a source of crimes including
bombings and assassinations.

"Al Shabab wants to carry out terror attacks on or before the end of the Ramadan
inside Puntland and the targets include key structures, therefore, we have to
increase our surveillance by keeping a vigil on those hiring houses and unknown
individuals" said Governor Qarjab.

Speaking to the public, Governor Qarjab advised the locals to remain vigilant
against terrorists and to cooperate with the security forces.

"We ask you [people] to increase security at every place, we deployed special
security forces to Hotels and other public places to extremely tighten the
security and to combat anyone who wants to harm our people, I am telling the
security forces to beef up security and conduct serious stop and check
operations" added the Governor.

With eight days left in Ramadan, intelligence reports disclosed that
Al-Qa'idah-linked Al Shabab group is planning to carry out deadly bombings and
assassinations across the country including Puntland which previously launched
successful operations against underground terrorist cells and Al Shabab fighters
who are hiding out in Golis Mountains.

Al Shabab recently claimed to have carried out 108 terror attacks during the
holy month of Ramadan alone and Mogadishu has been a scene for random violence
including car bomb attacks and military style ambushes which reached record
heights this month.

Source: Garoweonline.com in English 31 Jul 13

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 31, 2013 Wednesday

Tunisian official on Jebel Chaambi terrorist attack, repercussions to attack

LENGTH: 1684 words


Text of report by Saudi-owned leading pan-Arab daily Al-Sharq al-Awsat website
on 31 July

[Report by Adil al-Naqti and Al-Munji al-Su'aydani: "Tunisian defence ministry
spokesman tells Al-Sharq al-Awsat that resistance against terrorism has a price;
security source believe it is likely that the assassins of eight soldiers on
Jebel Chaambi belong to the group of terrorist Kamel Abu Arbia"]

In an exclusive statement to Al-Sharq al-Awsat, Brigadier General Taoufiq
Rahmouni, the official spokesman of the Tunisian Defence Ministry, said that the
military establishment in Tunisia "knows very well that resisting against
terrorism has a price and requires sacrifice, patience, persistence, and
perseverance". He added: "The Tunisian national army will not spare any effort
to defend the stability of Tunisia and the security of its people". Brigadier
General Rahmouni talked in detail about the operation in which eight Tunisian
national army soldiers were killed and three others wounded on Monday, the day
before yesterday, on Jebel Chaambi (in the Kasserine Province, 300 kilometres
southwest of the Tunisian capital). He told Al-Sharq al-Awsat: "Eight members of
a military patrol were killed in an ambush sprung by an armed group at around
1830 hours in the region of Al-Tallah. Three other soldiers were injured after a
landmine blew up underneath the military vehicle that that was transporting them
on their way to reinforce the first group. Two have been discharged from
hospital; the third is receiving additional treatment".

The official spokesman of the Defence Ministry added to Al-Sharq al-Awsat that
"the bodies of several members of the patrol who were killed were mutilated; the
equipment carried by the members of the patrol were seized". n the identity and
nationality of the armed group, Brigadier General Taoufiq Rahmouni told Al-Sharq
al-Awsat: "We do not wish to prejudge the events. The investigations and
collection of intelligence information are continuing to determine the number of
the armed group, their nationalities, and their affiliation". On whether this
group sneaked into Jebel Chaambi recently or whether they have been fortified on
these heights for a while, the ministry's official spokesman told Al-Sharq
al-Awsat: "The two theories are possible; we will know from the current
investigations". Regarding the Tunisian Army's plan to confront such operations
in the future, Brigadier General Taoufiq Rahmouni said: "The combing and
reconnaissance operations will continue to repulse anyone that threatens
Tunisia's stability and the security of its people".

In another related development, Al-Sharq al-Awsat has learned from informed
sources in the Tunisian Defence Ministry that the funerals of the soldiers who
were killed in this operation will take place in their separate hometowns in
several Tunisian provinces at the request of their families. The funerals will
be attended by senior officers from the Tunisian national army (several funerals
were held yesterday). A group funeral was held yesterday for the eight victims
in the military base in Kasserine. It was attended by Tunisian President Mohamed
Moncef Marzouki, several members of the cabinet, and senior Tunisian army
officers. In his capacity as commander in chief of the armed forces, President
Marzouki, accompanied by the Minister of National Defence and the ground forces
chief of staff, supervised the funeral procession held for the military victims
in the military barracks in Kasserine, the scene of the terrorist crime. Moncef
Marzouki called on all the political groups in Tunisia to rise up to the "army's
sacrifices" in the wake of the terrorist attack yesterday in which eight
soldiers were killed in Jebel Chaambi west of the country. In a eulogy during
the funeral that was held in a military barracks in the town of Kasserine west
of Tunis, Marzouki urged the political class that it is necessary to stop the
wrangling and infighting and to pay attention to the demands of the people so
they would in turn preserve national unity and end divisions. The Tunisian
president said: "We shall continue to work to defeat the terrorist gangs that
have taken the wrong path; we are confident that we will defeat them".

Security sources have said that the terrorist group that perpetrated the
terrorist deed against the Tunisian soldiers in Jebel Chaambi most likely
belongs to Kamel Ben Arbia, codenamed "Ilyas Abou Felda" who was recently
apprehended by Algerian security forces. Algerian security sources told the
private Mosaic FM radio station in Tunis that the terrorist group consists of
Algerians and Tunisians operating under the command of Kamel Ben Arbia and
targeting security and army forces on the border between the two countries. The
sources added that the operation may be to retaliate against the capture of its
leader Ben Arbia.

Informed military sources told Al-Sharq al-Awsat that the operation may be
directed against the recently appointed army chief of staff for his crucial role
in putting down the incidents that took place in Sulayman, south of the Tunisian
capital, in 2007. The sources added that the ambush that targeted the soldiers
on Jebel Chaambi was spring for a commando unit in which General Mohamed Saleh
Hamedi was trained. The terrorists did not target other military units that
operate daily security patrols. Aliya Allani, a specialist in the affairs of
Islamic groups, spoke to Al-Sharq al-Awsat on this terrorist operation that
targeted the army and on the nature of the terrorist organization that carried
it out. He said that these jihadist organizations are interconnected; they do
not recognize borders and they coordinate their operations very well. They have
sufficient financial resources and they open their doors to jihadists from
Tunisia, Algeria, and the rest of the Arab Maghreb countries. Referring to the
In Amenas operation that took place in southern Algeria, he said that the
military intervention in Mali has driven many jihadists to return to their
respective countries with their weapons and a high level of military experience
that they had gained. Aliya Allani made a connection between these and the
events on the border between Tunisia and Algeria. On the repercussions of this
terrorist operation, he said that it may deepen the political rifts among the
Tunisian people. However, he added, it may also open their eyes to the dangers
of terrorism and unite them against this plague that has no homeland.

Regarding the condition of the bodies of the Tunisian soldiers who were killed,
Chedli El Mafqoudi (a doctor in the Intensive Care Unit in the government
hospital in Kasserine) said that eight soldiers died when they were ambushed by
the terrorists on Jebel Chaambi before the break of the fast. This is contrary
to the reports that had said that 10 soldiers were killed. In local statements,
El Mafqoudi said that all the bodies bore intensive gunshot wounds. He added:
"Five bodies were mutilated and stabbed with sharp implements". He added that
the soldiers arrived at the hospital "almost naked" with their uniforms
stripped. El Mafqoudi speculated that the gunshots wounds preceded the
mutilation and stabbing. After the uniforms of the killed soldiers were seized,
the Tunisian Defence Ministry issued a statement yesterday warning that a major
terrorist operation may be staged using the military uniforms and equipment that
were seized on Monday night. The ministry said that eight soldiers were
assassinated and four others were wounded before the break of the fast in a
tight ambush. The armed terrorist groups shot them dead and mutilated their
bodies. The ministry added that the commando forces of the national army
exchanged fire with the terrorists. However, the surprise attack and the intense
fire led to the martyrdom of the eight soldiers. In its statement, the ministry
called on the military and security commanders to be vigilant so that the armed
groups would not be able to infiltrate using the stolen uniforms.

In another development, the Ennahda movement has announced that it is prepared
"to widen the political base of power" in Tunis8ia in order to emerge from the
political crisis from which the country is suffering. However, Ennahda affirmed
that it rejects "the exploitation of the crime to stage a coup against
legitimacy". A joint statement issued by Ennahda and a number of small Islamist
political parties said: "We stress the importance of concordance and dialogue
within the context of adhering to the goals of the revolution, the principles of
a democratic civic state, and the expansion of the political base of power". The
statement added: "We call for the formation of a broad national coalition to
complete the goals of the revolution and the tasks of the democratic transition
stage". It went on to say: "We adhere to the Constituent National Assembly (the
parliament) as the foundation of the legitimacy that resulted from elections
that expressed the free general will of the people", according to the Agence
France Presse. The statement said: "We urge the Constituent National Assembly to
expedite the ratification of the constitution and the elections law in order to
hold legislative and presidential elections as soon as possible". Meanwhile, the
secular Tunisian Al-Ettakattol Party (left of centre) allied with the Islamists
in power called yesterday for the formation of a national unity government after
eight soldiers were killed in a region where the Al-Qa'idah organization is
active. In a statement, the Al-Ettakattol Party said: "National unity is the
duty of all the sons of the Tunisian people from all political currents. We call
on all the parties and organizations to shoulder their responsibilities towards
the Tunisian people and form a national unity government". However, the party
that is headed by Mostafa Ben Jaafar, the president of the Constituent National
Assembly, did not issue a warning to the Ennahda Party and did not suggest that
it may withdraw from the current government.

Source: Al-Sharq al-Awsat website, London, in Arabic 0000 gmt 31 Jul 13

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            July 31, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Alicia ex 'batters' her in car;
MY ATTACK TERROR, BY MODEL

BYLINE: RICHARD WHITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 176 words


FORMER model Alicia Douvall told last night how an ex battered her while she
drove her car - with her 18-monthold daughter in the back. Alicia, 34, said he
punched her three times in the face and spat at her during the attack.

He then fled as she screamed for help. Alicia - famed for more than 350 plastic
surgery operations - said: "It was terrifying.

"He forced his way into my car. He began punching me after a row. My little girl
Papaya was screaming in the back seat.

"I was driving at the time and we could have been killed. I pulled over and
started shouting for help. He got out of the car and ran away. We dated for a
short time but he cannot accept that the relationship is over."

The mum-of-two, who had Papaya with former Crystal Palace chairman Simon Jordan,
suffered severe bruises to her face. She said the unnamed man got into her car
at her home in Lancaster Gate, west London, and fled in nearby Oxford Street.

A man, 40, was arrested later and bailed until September. Police said: "We were
called to a report of an assault." irishsun@the-sun.ie

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bruised ... model shows injuries and, above, ambulance & police are
called

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            July 31, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EX 'BATTERS ALICIA' AS SHE DRIVES CAR;
MY ATTACK TERROR, BY MODEL EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: RICHARD WHITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 181 words


FORMER model Alicia Douvall told last night how an ex-boyfriend battered her
while she drove her car - with her 18-month-old daughter in the back seat.

Alicia, 34, said he punched her three times in the face and spat at her in a
terrifying attack. He then fled as she screamed for help.

Alicia - famed for more than 350 plastic surgery operations - said: "It was
terrifying. He "forced his way into my car.

"He began punching me after a row. My little girl Papaya was screaming in the
back seat. I was driving at the time and we could have been killed.

"I pulled over and started shouting for help. He got out of the car and ran
away.

"We dated for a short time but he cannot accept that the relationship over."

The mum-of-two, who had Papaya with former Crystal Palace chairman Simon Jordan,
suffered severe bruises to her face. She said the unnamed man got into her car
at her home in Lancaster Gate, West London, and fled in nearby Oxford Street.

A man, 40, was arrested two hours later and bailed until September. Police said:
"We were called to a report of an assault."

r.white@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Victim ... shaken Alicia, 34
Probe ... she gives details to cop
Ordeal ... Alicia with bruised face after attack
999 alert . . ambulance and police car are called in

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            July 31, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

EX 'BATTERS ALICIA' AS SHE DEIVES CAR;
MY ATTACK TERROR, BY MODEL

BYLINE: RICHARD WHITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 182 words


FORMER model Alicia Douvall told last night how an ex-boyfriend battered her
while she drove her car - with her 18-month-old daughter in the back seat.

Alicia, 34, said he punched her three times in the face and spat at her in a
terrifying attack. He then fled as she screamed for help.

Alicia - famed for more than 350 plastic surgery operations - said: "It was
terrifying. He "forced his way into my car.

"He began punching me after a row. My little girl Papaya was screaming in the
back seat. I was driving at the time and we could have been killed.

"I pulled over and started shouting for help. He got out of the car and ran
away.

"We dated for a short time but he cannot accept that the relationship is over."

The mum of two, who had Papaya with former Crystal Palace chairman Simon Jordan,
suffered severe bruises to her face. She said the unnamed man got into her car
at her home in Lancaster Gate, West London, and fled in nearby Oxford Street.

A man, 40, was arrested two hours later and bailed until September. Police said:
"We were called to a report of an assault." r.white@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Victim ... shaken Alicia, 34
Probe ... she gives details to cop
Ordeal ... Alicia with bruised face after attack
999 alert . . ambulance and police car are called in

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            July 31, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

EX ' BATTERS ALICIA AS SHE DRIVES CAR;
MY ATTACK TERROR, BY MODEL

BYLINE: RICHARD WHITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 185 words


FORMER model Alicia Douvall told last night how an ex-boyfriend battered her
while she drove her car - with her 18-month-old daughter in the back seat.

Alicia, 34, said he punched her three times in the face and spat at her in a
terrifying attack. He then fled as she screamed for help.

Alicia - famed for more than 350 plastic surgery operations - said: "It was
terrifying. He "forced his way into my car.

"He began punching me after a row. My little girl Papaya was screaming in the
back seat. I was driving at the time and we could have been killed.

"I pulled over and started shouting for help. He got out of the car and ran
away.

"We dated for a short time but he cannot accept that the relationship over."

The mum-of-two, who had Papaya with former Crystal Palace chairman Simon Jordan,
suffered severe bruises to her face. She said the unnamed man got into her car
at her home in Lancaster Gate, West London, and fled in nearby Oxford Street.

A man, 40, was arrested two hours later and bailed until September. Police said:
"We were called to a report of an assault." r.white@the-sun.co.uk Pictures: ISO
IMAGES

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Victim ... shaken Alicia, 34
Probe ... she gives details to cop
Ordeal ... Alicia with bruised face after attack
999 alert . . ambulance and police car are called in

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNscot


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      August 1, 2013 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT

Chile under fire for anti-terrorism attack on indians

BYLINE: James Hider, Latin America Correspondent

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 436 words


The United Nations has condemned Chile for using harsh anti-terrorism laws
dating back to the dictatorship of General Augusto Pinochet in a land dispute
with Mapuche indians fighting for their ancestral rights.

The crisis "could turn into a major regional conflict unless urgent action is
taken", said Ben Emmerson, the UN special investigator on human rights and
counter-terrorism.

Chile is home to about 1 million Mapuche, an indigenous group who live in the
south of the country and were such tenacious fighters that they resisted
colonisation until the 19th century.

Mr Emmerson, who has just returned from an investigative trip to Chile,
described the situation in the Mapuche heartland, around the Bio Bio river, as
"volatile".

Chile was shocked earlier this year when an elderly couple whose family had been
locked in a land dispute with the Mapuche died in an arson attack on their home.
A Mapuche tribesman was arrested and held under anti-terrorism laws.

The Mapuche, who also live across the border in Argentina, accuse the
authorities of trying to criminalise their struggle, including accusing them of
starting a forest fire in which seven firefighters died last year. They say that
police use excessive force in raids on their homes, fire rubber bullets at women
and children, and as an example of government abuse, cite the use of
anti-terrorism laws.

Mr Emmerson said that Chile's criminal legislation was enough to tackle the
problems and urged the Government to recognise the Mapuche within the
constitution and start returning their land.

"The anti-terrorist legislation has been used in a way that discriminates
against the Mapuche. It has been applied in a confusing and arbitrary way, which
has turned into a real injustice that has impaired the right to a fair trial.
And it has been perceived as stigmatising and delegitimising of the Mapuche
territorial demands and protests," he said.

President Piñera's Government has not so far responded to the UN criticism,
although it had invited the inspection. Mr Piñera invoked the Pinochet-era
anti-terror laws after the deadly forest fires in 2012, saying: "Behind this
premeditated and criminal conduct there is activity of a terrorist nature."

The Mapuche welcomed the UN findings. "The preliminary conclusions . . . go
along with what we've been saying: that there's no terrorism and that this is a
disproportionate law that only creates more tensions," said Aucan Huilcaman, a
Mapuche leader.

Some Mapuche have gone on hunger strike over the laws which allow police to
detain suspects in isolation without charge and condemn them on anonymous
testimonies.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            August 1, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Chile under fire for anti-terrorism attack on indians

BYLINE: James Hider

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 483 words


The United Nations has condemned Chile for using harsh anti-terrorism laws
dating back to the dictatorship of General Augusto Pinochet in a land dispute
with Mapuche indians fighting for their ancestral rights.

The crisis "could turn into a major regional conflict unless urgent action is
taken", said Ben Emmerson, the UN special investigator on human rights and
counter-terrorism.

Chile is home to about 1 million Mapuche, an indigenous group who live in the
south of the country and were such tenacious fighters that they resisted
colonisation until the 19th century.

Mr Emmerson, who has just returned from an investigative trip to Chile,
described the situation in the Mapuche heartland, around the Bio Bio river, as
"volatile".

Chile was shocked earlier this year when an elderly couple whose family had been
locked in a land dispute with the Mapuche died in an arson attack on their home.
A Mapuche tribesman was arrested and held under anti-terrorism laws.

The Mapuche, who also live across the border in Argentina, accuse the
authorities of trying to criminalise their struggle, including accusing them of
starting a forest fire in which seven firefighters died last year. They say that
police use excessive force in raids on their homes, fire rubber bullets at women
and children, and as an example of government abuse, cite the use of
antiterrorism laws.

Mr Emmerson said that Chile's criminal legislation was enough to tackle the
problems and urged the Government to recognise the Mapuche within the
constitution and start returning their land.

"The anti-terrorist legislation has been used in a way that discriminates
against the Mapuche. It has been applied in a confusing and arbitrary way, which
has turned into a real injustice that has impaired the right to a fair trial.
And it has been perceived as stigmatising and delegitimising of the Mapuche
territorial demands and protests," he said.

President Piñera's Government has not so far responded to the UN criticism,
although it had invited the inspection. Mr Piñera invoked the Pinochetera
anti-terror laws after the deadly forest fires in 2012, saying: "Behind this
premeditated and criminal conduct there is activity of a terrorist nature."

The Mapuche welcomed the UN findings. "The preliminary conclusions ... go along
with what we've been saying: that there's no terrorism and that this is a
disproportionate law that only creates more tensions," said Aucan Huilcaman, a
Mapuche leader. Some Mapuche have gone on hunger strike over the laws which
allow police to detain suspects in isolation without charge and condemn them on
anonymous testimonies.

Here to stay The Mapuche people are the indigenous inhabitants of south-central
Chile and south-western Argentina The vast majority of Mapuche indians, about 1
million, live in Chile, where they make up about 9 per cent of the population
About 10 per cent of Mapuche live in Argentina

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Mapuche say Chile is criminalising their struggle

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2013 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                       August 2, 2013 Friday 5:56 PM GMT

DUP slam police for 'sensationalist' arrest of Ruth Patterson - while distancing
party from 'obnoxious' Facebook comment;
Unionist councillor said a fictional terrorist attack on Castlederg republican
parade would provide "a great service to Northern Ireland"

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 589 words


Police were accused of making a "sensationalist" arrest today after detaining a
loyalist Belfast city councillor over remarks she made about a disputed parade.

Ruth Patterson, 57, a member of Northern Ireland First Minister Peter Robinson's
Democratic Unionist Party, was held in relation to offences concerning the
sending of grossly offensive communications and other serious criminal offences
in relation to intimidation and encouraging criminal acts, according to the
Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI).

Earlier she had to apologise after saying that a fictional terrorist attack on a
republican parade in which senior Sinn Fein members would be killed would
provide "a great service to Northern Ireland".

A Democratic Unionist statement said: "We fail to understand why the police
chose to conduct a sensationalist arrest rather than contact Ruth and ask her to
attend an Article 10 voluntary interview."

She made the Facebook remark ahead of a planned republican rally in Castlederg,
Co Tyrone, on Sunday week to commemorate the deaths of two IRA men blown up 30
years ago by a bomb which they intended to plant in the town, just a few miles
from the border with Co Donegal in the Irish Republic.

Even though the Parades Commission has imposed route restrictions, loyalists
have called on the Northern Ireland Office (NIO) minister, Theresa Villiers, to
ban the march. Republicans had earlier voluntarily rerouted it from part of
Castlederg.

The DUP, which has been critical of the parade, launched an investigation into
the intervention of Ms Patterson, branding her comments "completely
unacceptable".

Her remarks were in response to a fictional news post on the social networking
site which reported that an indiscriminate gun and bomb attack had taken place
in Castlederg, with a number of senior Sinn Fein members said to be among those
killed.

Commenting on the post, Ms Patterson wrote: "Who cares how we would be judged,
we would have done a great service to Northern Ireland and the world..."

She added: "Would I shed a tear? No. Would I loose (sic) a night's sleep? No,
would I really worry about what anyone else thought? No."

After the comment came to light she issued an apology.

A DUP spokesman said the party would raise the arrest with PSNI Chief Constable
Matt Baggott.

"The DUP was founded on the principle that everyone should be equal under the
law and equally subject to the law. Councillor Ruth Patterson has apologised for
her remarks, accepted they were well below the standard expected of a public
representative and not in keeping with the DUP's values and ethos," he added.

"The party officers also emphasised the unacceptable nature of these stupid and
obnoxious comments and will conclude its own internal investigations."

In a message aimed at its Stormont power-sharing partners Sinn Fein, the DUP
spokesman added: "If there is a legal process to be followed then we will await
its outcome: others, who in the past set themselves up as judge, jury and
sometimes literal executioners, should do likewise before commenting further."

Ms Patterson's controversial post has since been deleted from Facebook.

The DUP spokesman contrasted Ms Patterson's treatment with that of Sinn Fein
members.

"Ruth was guilty of an error in judgment: others in Sinn Fein are guilty of far
more serious crimes," he said.

A PSNI spokeman said: "When a report is made to the PSNI regarding information
posted on social media sites, officers will investigate and where a criminal
offence has occurred, appropriate action will be taken."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       August 2, 2013 Friday 8:56 PM GMT

U.S. issue a global travel alert and embassies across 'the Muslim world' to
close amid threats of a terrorist attack

BYLINE: HELEN COLLIS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 709 words



     ·    Dozens of U.S. embassies instructed to close on Sunday in the 'Muslim
          world' as a 'precaution' following unspecified threats
     ·    One official described threats as a 'concerted effort' to target U.S.
          embassies and consulates


The United States has issued a global travel alert because of an al-Qaeda
terrorist threat and is shuttering its embassies and consulates throughout the
Muslim world on Sunday after receiving an unspecified threat, officials said.

State Department officials said Thursday that they were taking action out of an
'abundance of caution' from the Arabian Peninsula

Spokeswoman Marie Harf cited information indicating a threat to U.S. facilities
overseas and said some diplomatic facilities may stay closed for more than a
day.

Other U.S. officials said the threat was in the Muslim world, where Sunday is a
workday. American diplomatic missions in Europe, Latin America and many other
places are closed on Sunday.

Those officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they weren't authorized
to speak publicly about the matter.

The State Department issued a major warning last year informing American
diplomatic facilities across the Muslim world about potential violence connected
to the anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Dozens of American installations were besieged by protest over an anti-Islam
video made by an American resident.

In Benghazi, Libya, the U.S. ambassador and three other Americans were killed
when militants assaulted a diplomatic post. The administration no longer says
that attack was related to the demonstrations.

The United States is locking down its embassies and consulates throughout the
Muslim world on Sunday after receiving an unspecified threat, officials said.

Quoted by  ABC News, one official said the closures were a response to a
'specific threat against a U.S. embassy or consulate,' described as a 'concerted
effort' to target an embassy or consulate in a Muslim country.

The official also said that 'there could be other targets, not just embassies'.

According to the news service, 28 U.S. installations will close Sunday,
including  offices in Egypt, Iraq, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, the United Arab
Emirates and Oman.

The threat comes close to a year after four American consulate workers in Libya
were killed in a night time arson attack.

The State Department issued a major warning last year informing American
diplomatic facilities across the Muslim world about potential violence connected
to the anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks.

Dozens of American installations were besieged by protest over an anti-Islam
video made by an American resident.

In Benghazi, Libya, the U.S. ambassador and three other Americans were killed
when militants assaulted a diplomatic post.

An armed mob attacked and set fire to the consulate building in their protest
against the amateur film - deemed offensive to Islam's prophet, Muhammad - after
similar protests in Egypt's capital.

The administration no longer says that attack was related to the demonstrations.

The mass closure of U.S. embassies and consulates across the MENA region also
comes almost 15 years ago to the day that hundreds of people were killed in
simultaneous terrorist attacks, conducted by al-Qaeda, on U.S. embassies in
Nairobi, Kenya and Dar es Salaam.

In Dar es Salaam, 10 Tanzanians were killed and more than 85 Americans and
Tanzanians were injured. The blast at the U.S. embassy in Nairobi killed at
least 212 people and wounded an estimated 4,000.

In his recent visit to Africa, U.S. President Barack Obama paid his respects to
those who lost their lives in the attacks.

In Britain, the Foreign Office said it was not shutting any embassies but has
urged its staff in the Middle East and in Arab states to be vigilant.

'US Embassies in the region have been instructed to close on Sunday August 4.
The British Embassies remain open, but staff have been advised to exercise extra
vigilance as we approach Eid,' a spokesman said.

'We are aware of reports and are in close contact with the US authorities. We
will consider every Embassy on case by case basis; clearly the safety of our
staff overseas is our highest priority.

'Our travel advice remains under constant review. We are not going to comment on
intelligence matters.'

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       August 2, 2013 Friday 10:32 AM GMT

U.S. embassies across 'the Muslim world' to close on Sunday amid threats of a
terrorist attack

BYLINE: HELEN COLLIS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 494 words



     ·    Dozens of U.S. embassies instructed to close on Sunday in the 'Muslim
          world' as a 'precaution' following unspecified threats
     ·    One official described threats as a 'concerted effort' to target U.S.
          embassies and consulates


The United States is locking down its embassies and consulates throughout the
Muslim world on Sunday after receiving an unspecified threat, officials said.

State Department officials said Thursday that they were taking action out of an
'abundance of caution'.

Spokeswoman Marie Harf cited information indicating a threat to U.S. facilities
overseas and said some diplomatic offices may stay closed for more than a day.

'Security considerations have led us to take this precautionary step,' she told
reporters.

Other U.S. officials said the threat was in the Muslim world - in the Middle
East, North Africa and South Asia - where Sunday is a working day. American
diplomatic missions in Europe, Latin America and many other places are closed on
Sunday.

Those officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they weren't authorized
to speak publicly about the matter.

Quoted by  ABC News, one official said the closures were a response to a
'specific threat against a U.S. embassy or consulate,' described as a 'concerted
effort' to target an embassy or consulate in a Muslim country.

The official also said that 'there could be other targets, not just embassies'.

According to the news service, 28 U.S. installations will close Sunday,
including  offices in Egypt, Iraq, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, the United Arab
Emirates and Oman.

The threat comes close to a year after four American consulate workers in Libya
were killed in a night time arson attack.

The State Department issued a major warning last year informing American
diplomatic facilities across the Muslim world about potential violence connected
to the anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks.

Dozens of American installations were besieged by protest over an anti-Islam
video made by an American resident.

In Benghazi, Libya, the U.S. ambassador and three other Americans were killed
when militants assaulted a diplomatic post.

An armed mob attacked and set fire to the consulate building in their protest
against the amateur film - deemed offensive to Islam's prophet, Muhammad - after
similar protests in Egypt's capital.

The administration no longer says that attack was related to the demonstrations.

The mass closure of U.S. embassies and consulates across the MENA region also
comes almost 15 years ago to the day that hundreds of people were killed in
simultaneous terrorist attacks, conducted by al-Qaeda, on U.S. embassies in
Nairobi, Kenya and Dar es Salaam.

In Dar es Salaam, 10 Tanzanians were killed and more than 85 Americans and
Tanzanians were injured. The blast at the U.S. embassy in Nairobi killed at
least 212 people and wounded an estimated 4,000.

In his recent visit to Africa, U.S. President Barack Obama paid his respects to
those who lost their lives in the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            August 3, 2013 Saturday

US issues travel alert over possible terror attacks

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 302 words


WASHINGTON - The United States on Friday issued a global travel alert over
possible terrorist attacks, one day after it announced the closure of some
diplomatic missions in the Middle East region over the coming weekend.

"The Department of State alerts US citizens to the continued potential for
terrorist attacks, particularly in the Middle East and North Africa, and
possibly occurring in or emanating from the Arabian Peninsula," the department
said in a travel alert posted on its website.

"Current information suggests that al-Qaida and affiliated organizations
continue to plan terrorist attacks both in the region and beyond, and that they
may focus efforts to conduct attacks in the period between now and the end of
August," it added.

US Ambassador to Libya Christopher Stevens and three other Americans were killed
when the US consulate in Benghazi of Libya came under attack on September 11,
2012.

The State Department warned of possible terrorist attacks on public
transportation systems and other tourist infrastructure, adding that the United
States is working closely with other nations on the threat.

US missions in Egypt, Iraq, Israel, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia are among those to
be closed through the weekend, in particular on Sunday, a workday in the Muslim
world.

State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf told reporters on Thursday that the
decision was taken "out of an abundance of caution and care for our employees
and others who may be visiting our installations."

Cooperation on counterterrorism was the focus of the talks between US President
Barack Obama and his Yemeni counterpart Abdal-Rab Mansur Al-Hadi at the White
House on Thursday, as the Obama administration is helping the Yemeni government
forces fight Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, a resurgent al-Qaida offshoot
based in Yemen.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      August 3, 2013 Saturday 2:44 AM GMT

US fears terror attack

BYLINE: Elisa Roche

LENGTH: 98 words


A WORLDWIDE terror alert was issued last night by America.

Twenty-one of its embassies and consular offices in the Middle East and North
Africa will be shut this weekend over fears of an Al Qaeda attack.

It also sent a global travel alert to citizens.

Counter-terrorist chiefs believe fanatics from the ­Arabian peninsular are
plotting an attack this month.

The US State Department warned: "Current information suggests that Al Qaeda and
affiliated organisations continue to plan terrorist attacks both in the region
and beyond."

The intelligence was said to come from "not the regular chit-chat".

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 3, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;

UK fears terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 98 words


BRITONS were last night warned to leave Yemen immediately amid fears of an
imminent terrorist attack. The Foreign Office said the embassy in the capital
Sana'a will be closed tomorrow and Monday as a "precautionary measure". The move
comes as a worldwide terror alert was issued last night by the US. Twenty-one of
its embassies and consular offices in the Middle East and North Africa will be
shut this weekend over fears of an Al Qaeda attack.

The US State Department warned: "Current information suggests that Al Qaeda
continues to plan terrorist attacks both in the region and beyond."

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            August 3, 2013 Saturday

US issues travel alert over 'terror attacks'

BYLINE: Ed Pilkington in New York

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 459 words


The US state department has issued a worldwide travel alert to American citizens
lasting throughout August, exhorting travellers to be on the alert for possible
terrorist attacks on public transport and tourist destinations.

The unusually broad warning, which covers travel by Americans anywhere in the
world until 31 August, comes just a day after the US government announced it was
closing at least 18 embassies on Sunday in what it described as a "precautionary
measure" tied to evidence of plots emanating from the Middle East and North
Africa.

CNN reported that the travel alert related to intelligence received by US
officials about a potential attack originating in Yemen. It said its information
was based on three sources, who said the US had information that al-Qaida in
Yemen was "in the final stages of planning for an unspecified attack".

Britain will also close its embassy in Yemen on 4-5 August because of "increased
security concerns", the Foreign Office said yesterday. "We are particularly
concerned about the security situation in the final days of Ramadan and into
Eid," a statement said.

The embassy closures appeared to be linked to the enduring threats posed by
al-Qaida affiliate groups in the region.

"Current information suggests that al-Qaida and affiliated organisations
continue to plan terrorist attacks both in the region and beyond, and that they
may focus efforts to conduct attacks in the period between now and the end of
August," the state department travel alert says. "US citizens are reminded of
the potential for terrorists to attack public transportation systems and other
tourist infrastructure - terrorists have targeted and attacked subway and rail
systems as well as aviation and maritime services."

Seth Jones, a terrorism expert at the Rand Corporation, said the combination of
the closure of US embassies and the travel alert was unusual and significant. It
came on the back of recent active threats to US embassies in Libya and Egypt and
in Gulf states including Yemen, he said.

Jones, who testified before the House foreign affairs subcommittee on terrorism
last month, said he would be very surprised if the threats were co-ordinated
across countries and continents by al-Qaida, which had generally lost its
ability to act across national boundaries since 9/11 and had been weakened at
its core in Pakistan. But equally, the confluence of embassy closures and the
travel alert pointed to the enduring potency of splintered al-Qaida affiliates.

The embassy closures were taken, a department of state official said, out of an
"abundance of caution and care for our employees". It related to all overseas US
diplomatic posts that open on Sundays, though the action could keep embassies
shut until the end of Ramadan.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 3, 2013 Saturday 5:16 PM GMT

West braced for terrorist attacks after 'significant al-Qaeda threat in Yemen';

The West was braced for attacks by al-Qaeda's Yemen branch in apparent
retaliation for the deaths of high level terrorist leaders by a series of
devastatingly effective drone strikes.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 841 words


President Barack Obama                      vowed that "all appropriate steps"
be taken to protect Americans after the US issued a worldwide travel alert and
ordered its embassies across the Islamic world to close temporarily.

France and Germany joined Britain in ordering their Yemen embassies to close .
French president Francois Hollande warned there was a high likelihood of an
attack.

"We have elements that lead us to believe that the threat is very serious and
other countries have also taken similar steps," Mr Hollande said. "Therefore the
embassy [in Yemen will be closed for several days. We are also conscious that we
will have to keep up extreme vigilance in the coming weeks, especially for
people travelling in the area."

Intercepted communications between Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP)
leaders point to advanced planning of a terrorist attack in the region that
could take place between today and the end of the holy month of Ramadan on
Thursday, officials said.

"There is a significant threat stream, and we're reacting to it," Gen Martin
Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff said. He added the threat was
"more specific" than previous ones and the "intent is to attack Western, not
just US interests".

US officials said the warning was prompted after electronic communications were
intercepted during the week among senior al-Qaeda operatives who discussed
strikes on US interests in the Muslim world. "This was a lot more than the usual
chatter," one unnamed senior official said.

Intercepts suggested that a specific plot being hatched in Yemen had become
"imminent," according to one former US official.

A serving US official said the threat from AQAP had hardened over the last week
but there was still no specific location or target for the attack.

Peter King, a Republican congressman, said there was no doubt a very serious
attack was being planned. "I've been getting briefed fairly regularly over the
last seven or eight years at least and also pretty heavily before then and this
is the most specific I've seen," he said.

Shashank Joshi, a terrorism expert, said the American intercepts appeared to be
an unusually strong piece of information "high up the al-Qaeda chain of
command".

There has been a recent increase in the number of US drone strikes in Yemen.
There have been 15 US drone strikes in the country so far this year - three of
them coming in the past week.

The death of Saeed al-Shihri, the second-in-command of AQAP last month appeared
to be the spur for the group's decision to plot an attack, said Ahmed al-Attar,
a defence and security analyst.

"There is advanced planning for a retaliatory attack, most likely on the
embassies in Sanaa, since al-Shihri has been declared dead," he said. "AQAP has
been significantly undermined by drone attacks in Yemen and this is a big blow
that is pushing the organisation to look for payback. The drone campaign is
working and AQAP is looking for a spectacular response."

The al-Qaeda affiliate announced in July that its second-in-command, Shihri, a
former Guantánamo Bay prisoner, had died as a result of injuries sustained in an
American missile strike in Yemen last year. But Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri, the
group's seminal bomb maker, remains at large, and, according to American
officials, has trained a cadre of skilled protégés ready to take his place
should he be killed.

A senior US official said AQAP had trained a handful of bombers in preparation
for repeat of the 2010 underpants bomber attack in which it successfully
smuggled bombs on to flights travelling to the UK and US.

Germany and France joined Britain in ordering the closure of its embassy for the
next two days, possibly longer.

"The decision was made for security reasons because of a threat that was
considered elevated," a French foreign ministry spokesman said.

The Foreign Office advised Britons in Yemen to leave the country while
commercial airline flights were still available. There was no confirmation of
any immediate plans to halt commercial flights.

"If you don't leave the country now while commercial carriers are still flying
it is extremely unlikely that the British Government will be able to evacuate
you or provide consular assistance, the Foreign Office said.

"There is a high threat from terrorism throughout Yemen. Terrorists continue to
threaten further attacks. There is a very high threat of kidnap from armed
tribes, criminals and terrorists."

ABC News said the US embassy and the Sheraton Hotel in Sanaa were probable
targets of the plot.

Interpol warned that al-Qaeda had been strengthened by a series of prison breaks
that freed dozens of its followers in recent months in Libya, Iraq and Pakistan.

In a statement it said the jailbreaks "led to the escape of hundreds of
terrorists and other criminals".

It asked its 190 member countries to help "determine whether any of these recent
events are coordinated and linked" and to immediately convey any intelligence
which could help prevent another attack.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 4, 2013 Sunday

Interpol warns of terrorist attacks by escaped detainees from Iraq, Pakistan

LENGTH: 227 words


Text of report in English by Baghdad-based Iraqi Kurdish Shafaq News website on
4 August

International Criminal Police Organization "Interpol" has launched an
international warning of the existence of a significant risk of terrorist
attacks

after the escape of hundreds of extremists prisoners from prisons of Iraq,
Pakistan and Libya.

Hundreds has escaped from "Abu-Ghrayb" and "Taji" prisons in an incident that
was considered as most dangerous last month since 2003, and was followed two
days later by similar cases of smuggling of detainees from prisons in Pakistan
and Libya.

It called in a statement briefed by "Shafaq News" from its headquarters in the
French city of Lyon, its Member States and 190 countries to exercise the utmost
vigilance and support fight against terrorism in the world and to help determine
whether these events are coordinated.

It worthy that "Al-Qa'idah is suspected of being involved in a large number of
escape that led to the escape of hundreds of terrorists and criminals," adding
that it regularly launches such warnings, the latest of which was ten days
before the escape of Iraqi prisons from Abu-Ghrayb and Taji.

The US State Department warned on Friday that Al-Qa'idah is planning to carry
out terrorist operations this month in the Middle East and North Africa.

Source: Shafaq News website, Baghdad, in English 0800 gmt 4 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                                 August 4, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UDA PAINT-BOMB COULTER'S HOME;
COWARDLY ATTACK TERROR GANG EXACT REVENGE ON MUM OF FOUR Anti-drugs campaigner
targeted by thugs after daring to speak out

BYLINE: CIARAN BARNES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 397 words


COWARDLY UDA men paintbombed the home of an anti-drugs campaigner after she
lifted the lid on the terror gang's dealing.

Tracey Coulter's home on Shankill Terrace was attacked last weekend just hours
after she told Sunday Life she had been assaulted by convicted loyalist killer
Mo Courtney.

A crowd of UDA thugs gathered outside a bar before crossing the Shankill Road to
splatter her house with paint.

Tracey claims Mo Courtney headbutted her after she went to the offices of the
Lower Shankill Community Association on July 22 to complain about drug dealing.

The notorious gunman was questioned by cops but denied any wrongdoing.

Knowing that the incident would feature in Sunday Life, UDA men waited on the
newspaper being delivered to the local shop late last Saturday night.

They then gathered outside a bar, papers in hand, before attacking Tracey's
home.

Speaking yesterday, the tearful mum of four said:  "I'm heartbroken, they just
never stop picking on me.

"But I'm not going to move from the Lower Shankill and I'm going to continue
speaking out. The UDA are destroying this area with their drugs and bullying."

Tracey says her home was attacked by a UDA henchmen - a well-known drug dealer
who is pumped up on steroids and fake tan injections.

"He was stupid enough to throw the paint-bomb. Courtney wouldn't get his hands
dirty doing something like that," she added.

Tracey decided to speak out about the drugs crisis engulfing the Shankill after
the death of her cousin Neil Orr last month.

The 24-year-old overdosed on pills he had been buying from UDA dealers.

Tracey now wants the organisation's west Belfast boss Matt Kincaid to expel
every drug dealer from the ranks.

she added.: "Matt doesn't know the half of what is going on down here in the
Lower Shankill.

"The place is full of drugs, young kids are running around off their heads on
stuff they have bought from the UDA.

"More people are going to end up dead like my Neil if something isn't done about
it soon.

"Neil was a lovely fella, he was so good to his family and would have done
anything for you. I miss him so much."

Tracey - whose UDA father Jackie Coulter was murdered by the UVF during a
vicious loyalist feud in 2000 - says the UDA terror gang is making a fortune
through drugs.

"That's why it won't put a stop to the dealing, there is too much money to be
made," she added.

cbarnes@sundaylife.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UDA MEN: Mo Courtney and Matt Kincaid
DAMAGED: The Shankill Terrace house and (above) Tracey with cousin Neil Orr

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BSL


                           Copyright 2013 Sunday Life
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 August 4, 2013
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

High alert for al-Qaeda terror attack

BYLINE: DAMIEN MCELROY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 134 words


THE WEST was last night braced for attacks by al-Qaeda's Yemen branch in
apparent retaliation for the deaths of high-level terrorist leaders in drone
strikes.

President Barack Obama said "all appropriate steps" would be taken to protect
Americans after the US issued a worldwide travel alert and ordered embassies in
the Islamic world to close temporarily. France and Germany joined Britain in
ordering their Yemen embassies to close today. Francois Hollande, the French
president, warned of a high likelihood of an attack.

"We have elements that lead us to believe that the threat is very serious," Mr
Hollande said. "We are also conscious that we will have to keep up extreme
vigilance in the coming weeks, especially for people travelling in the area."

The Foreign Office advised Britons in Yemen to leave.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 4, 2013 Sunday 7:15 AM GMT

Tony Blair helped Colonel Gaddafi in £1bn legal row;
Tony Blair promised to help Col Muammar Gaddafi in a billion-pound legal dispute
with victims of a Libyan terrorist attack, according to official correspondence
obtained by The Sunday Telegraph.

BYLINE: By Robert Mendick and Edward Malnick

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 879 words


Documents show that Gaddafi turned to Mr Blair after a US court ordered Libya to
pay $1.5billion (£1billion) in damages to relatives of seven Americans killed
when a bomb exploded on a Paris-bound passenger jet in west Africa. According to
the email, Mr Blair approached President George W Bush after promising the
Libyan leader that he would intervene in the case.

Mr Bush subsequently signed the Libyan Claims Resolution Act in August 2008,
which invalidated the $1.5billion award made by the court.

UTA Flight 772 from Chad was blown up on Sept 19, 1989, by Libyan intelligence
services, killing all 170 passengers. The attack took place nine months after
Pan Am Flight 103 was blown up over the Scottish town of Lockerbie killing 270
people.

The relatives of UTA Flight 772 had won the billion-pound court case in January
2008 after a seven-year legal battle, causing serious difficulties for the
Libyan regime in the US. The ruling meant the proceeds of Libyan business deals,
mainly in oil and gas but including other investments, could be seized in the
US.

Mr Blair's involvement in the case is outlined in an email obtained by The
Sunday Telegraph. The document was written by Sir Vincent Fean, the then British
ambassador to Libya, and was sent to Mr Blair's aides on June 8, 2008, two days
before Mr Blair met Gaddafi in Libya.

It was one of at least six private trips made by Mr Blair to Libya after he quit
as prime minister in June 2007. The first trip to meet Gaddafi was made in
February 2008. The previous month a US federal court had made the $1.5billion
award to Flight 772 victims.

The email written by Sir Vincent outlines points for Mr Blair to raise in his
meeting with Gaddafi. It also shows that a key aide to Mr Blair had met with a
senior US diplomat to discuss the Flight 772 case.

Sir Vincent wrote: "On USA/Libya, TB should explain what he said to President
Bush (and what Banner [a Blair aide] said to Welch [a US diplomat]) to keep his
promise to Col Q [Gaddafi] to intervene after the President allowed US courts to
attach Libyan assets."

The memo went on: "He [Blair] could express satisfaction at the progress made in
talks between the US and Libya to reach a Govt to Govt solution to all the
legal/compensation issues outstanding from the 1980s. It would be good to get
these issues resolved, and move on. The right framework is being created. HMG is
not involved in the talks, although some British citizens might be affected by
them (Lockerbie, plus some UK Northern Irish litigants going to US courts
seeking compensation from Libya for IRA terrorist acts funded/fuelled by
Libya)."

The memo reveals that Nick Banner, Mr Blair's chief of staff in his role as
Middle East peace envoy, had spoken to David Welch, the US official who was
negotiating with the Libyans over compensation for victims of terrorism.

The American lawyer who had won the court order in January 2008 only to have it
made invalid by the act signed by Mr Bush said his clients had "got screwed".

Stuart Newberger, a senior partner at the international law firm Crowell &
Moring, said: "This case was thwarted by President Bush, who directed the State
Department to negotiate a package deal that ended all Libyan-related terrorism
cases, including my judgment. I had heard rumours about Blair's involvement but
this is the first time that role was confirmed."

He added: "I never considered this an honourable way to carry out diplomacy. It
sent the wrong message to terrorist states - don't worry about these lawsuits
and judgments as the politicians will eventually fix it."

Under the terms of the Libyan Claims Resolution Act, Libya made a one-off
payment to victims of all Libyan state-sponsored terrorism including the
bombings of Pan Am Flight 103, UTA Flight 772 and a Berlin discotheque. The
payment, totalling $1.5billion, gave Libya immunity from all terrorism-related
lawsuits.

The relatives of victims of UTA 772 received about $ 100million, rather than the
court award of $1.5billion. Relatives of victims of Pan Am 103 welcomed the
agreement which saw them get the final instalment of compensation already
agreed. The deal meant all victims of Libyan terrorism received the same award.

The Sunday Telegraph has also obtained a separate letter, sent on June 2 from
Gavin Mackay - a Foreign Office official seconded to Mr Blair in his role as
Middle East peace envoy at the Office of the Quarter Representative (OQR) - to
Libya's ambassador in London.

The letter, on OQR-headed notepaper details Mr Blair's gratitude that Libya is
providing him with a private jet to fly him from Sierra Leone to Tripoli for a
four-hour stopover and then on to the UK.

Sir Malcolm Rifkind, the former Foreign Secretary, expressed concern that the
trip appeared to be arranged through Mr Blair's public role as Middle East
envoy.

He said: "Unless Mr Blair can come up with a convincing explanation as to why
the Quartet secretariat should have been involved in this visit, it would indeed
be a reason for legitimate and serious criticism."

A spokesman for Tony Blair said: "The only conversation he ever had with regard
to this matter was to give a general view that it was in the interests of both
Libya and the USA to resolve those issues in a fair manner and move on."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 5, 2013 Monday

Counterterrorism operation in Aegean saves Turkey from terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 482 words


Text of report in English by Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman website on 4 August

(Todays Zaman) -The confessions of members of the terrorist organization
Revolutionary People's Liberation Party/Front (DHKP/C) who were arrested in
Greece on Wednesday revealed that group was in preparation for terrorist attacks
in Turkey.

According to the reporting of a Greek daily which published the confessions of
the four DHKP/C members (two Turkish and two Greek citizens), a captured boat's
captain, 22-year old S.T., provided critical information regarding the
connections of the terrorist organization. S.T reportedly said that they were
planning the shipment of a second batch of weapons and manpower to be used in
future terrorist attacks in Turkey and, had they not been caught on July 30
during the first shipment off the island of Chios, it would have gone through.
S.T. turned out to be a student at Merchant Marine Academy of Aspropyrgos. Based
on the confessions of the suspected terrorists, the anti-terrorism branch of the
Greek police reportedly expanded the scope of its operations.

The police found out that the captured boat planned to reach Turkey through the
island of Lesbos, where a group of people would help secure the arrival of the
DHKP/C terrorist to Turkey.

A 50-year-old Greek man originally from Istanbul named Kosmas Z. - who owns a
kebab house in Athens - reportedly played a crucial role in the shipment of the
weapons to Turkey. Another man, a 54-year-old nicknamed "Yorgos Renieris," who
allegedly smuggled big quantities of drugs to Albania, is allegedly among the
other collaborators of the DHKP/C. Kosmas Z. organized the logistics of the
weapons and explosives shipment via boat. As the owner of the boat, Yorgos
Renieris was arrested following the counterterrorism operation held by the Greek
authorities.

The 22 year old student S.T. confessed that he had met Kosmas Z. and Yorgo
Renieris two weeks ago in a cafeteria. He claimed that Kosmas Z. organized the
entire operation. According to his statements, the transfer of terrorist
organization members Hasan Biber and Mehmet Yayla was planned in the first
voyage. He also said that he was involved in human trafficking to the island of
Lesbos in September 2012 in return for 500 euro.

Kosmas Z., on the other hand, denied the allegations against him and claimed
that he has never been involved in any illegal activity in his whole life. "I am
recently unemployed. I used to work as a waiter in different restaurants in
Athens. I went to the island of Chios to look for a place to open a kebab
place," he said.

Kosmas Z. is believed to be the key person who took part in the weapons and
explosives shipment plan and the transfer of terrorists to Turkey. The Greek
police also detected connections of some people working in kebab places in
Athens with DHKP/C terrorists.

Source: Zaman website, Istanbul, in English 4 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 5, 2013 Monday

Cypriot police chief says no reason to worry about possible terrorist attack

LENGTH: 342 words


Text of report by Greek Cypriot news agency CNA

[Unattributed report: "Police Chief Says No Reason To Worry While Extra Security
Measures Are Taken due to Terrorist Threats"]

Nicosia, Aug 4 (CNA) - Cyprus Police Chief Michalis Papageorgiou has assured
that citizens in Cyprus must not worry over a possible terrorist attack on the
island, after warnings that al Qaeda may be planning attacks in August,
particularly in the Middle East and North Africa.

However, he stressed that there is no room for complacency and that everyone
must remain vigilant.

Earlier, Police spokesman Andreas Angelides had said that police stepped up
security measures over the weekend, particularly at embassies of western
countries, after information conveyed by the secret services of the US and the
UK over threats of a possible terrorist attack against western interests in the
Middle East.

He noted that within the framework of cooperation between Cypriot authorities
and other countries, "increased measures are being taken at embassies of western
countries as well as elsewhere considered necessary." He said that other than
the additional measures, the whole situation was being monitored so that there
are increased checks in some areas, in line with this cooperation.

Police Chief Papageorgiou said that terrorism is an issue that concerns everyone
and that no country could claim that if faces no danger from terrorists.

He assured that Cyprus Police are cooperating with all other competent
authorities of the Republic as well as with the EU, US and other countries
authorities and evaluates the situation in the region using all the means at its
disposal.

Responding to a question, Papageorgiou said that increased security measures are
taken first of all at the airports and the ports which are under the control of
the Republic.

The United States issued on Friday a worldwide travel alert warning Americans
that al Qaeda may be planning attacks in August, particularly in the Middle East
and North Africa.

Source: Cyprus News Agency, Nicosia, in English 0854gmt 04 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 5, 2013 Monday

Turkish paper says terrorist attacks on three cities thwarted

LENGTH: 615 words


Text of report by Turkish newspaper Milliyet website on 4 August

[Report by Sertac Koc in Ankara: "Three Actions in Three Cities Thwarted"]

It has been determined that the three DHKP-C [Revolutionary People's Liberation
Party -Front] members captured in the boat named Emma in waters off Chios Island
[Greece] had been planning to conduct three separate, sensational actions in
Istanbul, Ankara, and Izmir.

Important information continues to emerge regarding the operation conducted by
Greek security forces against the munitions-laded boat Emma off of Chios Island,
in which three DHKP-C members were captured, including Hasan Biber, the
perpetrator of the grenade attack against the Ministry of Justice in Ankara.

According to information obtained by Milliyet, intelligence units tracing the
operation conducted in waters off of Chios against the munitions-laden boat in
which DHKP-C terrorists Hasan Biber, Sinan Oktay Ozen, and Mehmet Yayla were
found have obtained striking details.

Retaliation Actions

The DHKP-C went into action in order to retaliate against both the United States
and Turkey. The DHKP-C leadership directed Biber, Ozen, and Yayla to Turkey in
order to conduct actions against identified targets which would have
reverberations. It has been determined that the organization aimed at staging
three major simultaneous actions in Istanbul, Ankara, and Izmir. It is noted
that the weapons and explosives seized in the boat would have been utilized in
these attacks.

The DHKP-C decided to conduct an action in Izmir against the United States,
which had caused difficult days for the organization's structures in Greece and
Europe. The organization was planning an attack on the NATO Allied Ground Forces
Command at Sirinyer in Izmir, or else on the United States' Honorary Consulate
at Konak, likewise in Izmir. It is noted that, following the operation conducted
against the boat by the Greek security forces, they seized documents pertaining
to these attack plans in raids conducted simultaneously against addressed
identified in Athens and Thessaloniki. It is also noted that this information
has been shared with US authorities by the Greek Intelligence Service.

It is stated that the DHKP-C planned to carry out attacks against police units
or positions that would be determined in Istanbul in response to various
operations and developments that had taken place in the recent period. This
information was shared on an urgent basis by intelligence units with security
components in all 81 provinces, and a directive for the necessary precautions to
be taken was issued.

Directive to "Carry Out Your Assignment"

Intelligence reports indicate that in the double attack carried out in March
against the AKP [Justice and Development Party] General Headquarters building
and the Ministry of Justice, Hasan Biber, who threw two hand grenades at the
Justice Ministry, had in fact been tasked by the organization with an action
against the Central Building of the Office of the Prime Minister. It has been
determined that Biber's actual target in the March action had been the Office of
the Prime Minister, but that he had changed his target on account of the
extensive security measures taken in the vicinity of the building. It is stated
that, after this, the DHKP-C gave Biber the directive to "carry out your
assignment."

These actions were prevented by the capture of the DHKP-C members.

Meanwhile, it has been determined that the number of those taken into custody in
raids that the Greek security forces carried out against cell houses in Athens
and Thessaloniki at the same time as the actipn conducted against the boat was
23.

Source: Milliyet website, Istanbul, in Turkish 4 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 5, 2013 Monday

Major terrorist attack on Indian interests in Afghanistan likely - Afghan view

LENGTH: 605 words


Excerpt from article, "Strong likelihood of attacks on Indian installations", by
Afghan independent secular daily newspaper Hasht-e Sobh on 4 August

A large number of residents of Nangarhar Province were killed and wounded in the
terrorist attack on the Indian consulate in that province yesterday.

The main target was the Indian consulate in Jalalabad.

Indian newspapers have written that New Delhi was aware through intelligence
reports that anti-India terrorist groups intended to attack Indian diplomatic
offices in Afghanistan in collaboration with Pakistani military intelligence. It
was, therefore, suggested to the Indian ambassador and diplomats in Kabul that
they increase their security measures, according to Indian press reports.

They have also reported that a number of Indian experts arrived in Kabul a few
days ago to closely supervise security arrangements for their diplomats. The
purpose was to minimize damage to diplomatic installations in the event of an
attack.

The Indian authorities must have shared their intelligence reports with Afghan
intelligence agencies, but the terrorists still managed to stage carnage in
Jalalabad. Pakistani terrorist agencies may not be able to stage terrorist
attacks on Indian soil, but Afghanistan is more vulnerable.

Unfortunately, a large number of our countrymen have been killed in terrorist
attacks targeting Indian diplomatic sites and the carnage in Jalalabad will not
be the last of its kind. Afghan intelligence agencies must take seriously the
probability that similar terrorist attacks will be repeated. The Pakistani
intelligence agency in collaboration with its proxy groups succeeded in 2008 not
only in targeting the Indian embassy in Kabul but also in staging a terrorist
attack in Mumbai. The People's Party had just come to power then and was blowing
the trumpet of repairing relations with India and other neighbours. These
terrorist attacks destroyed Pakistan's opportunity to repair relations with
India. It also seriously damaged People Party's credibility.

The situation is still the same today. Nawaz Sharif has come to power in
Islamabad as a representative of the Muslim League. He has said that in order to
address the problem of Pakistan's weak economy, he must repair ties with India
and take steps aimed at overcoming security challenges. Nawaz Sharif has been
making reconciliatory gestures towards India these days. Some South Asia experts
believe that the army is supporting Sharif this time. Even if this is true,
there are still extremist and anti-India circles within the ISI and other
Pakistani military intelligence agencies for whom good relations between
Islamabad and New Delhi are anathema.

[Passage omitted: Pakistani military tries to sabotage attempts by leaders at
good relations]

Now that he [Nawaz Sharif] is blowing the trumpet of good relations with India,
the likelihood of a terrorist attack with the aim of creating tension in the
region is high. It is unlikely that the terrorist agencies of Pakistan and their
supporters will stage an attack in India because it may be impossible for them
to do that this time. However, Afghanistan is more vulnerable. It should be
remembered that Pakistan's terrorist agencies might target the Indian embassy in
Kabul to create tension in the region. The attack on the Indian consulate in
Jalalabad is certainly an effort for this purpose. Therefore, Afghan
intelligence agencies must take the probability of another similar terrorist
attack seriously and take measures to neutralize them. Terrorists must not find
their ideal opportunity to strike.

Source: Hasht-e Sobh, Kabul, in Dari 4 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                             August 5, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Embassies shutdown sparked by net chatter on terror attack

BYLINE: KIM SENGUPTA ; NIKHIL KUMAR IN NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 364 words


THE alert that resulted in US diplomatic missions being closed down in three
continents at the weekend resulted from intercepts of al-Qaida electronic
communications in which Yemen is believed to have been involved. Although the
"chatter" about a possible attack was not specific the US authorities are said
to have been tracking the activities of Ibrahim al-Asiri, an experienced
bomb-maker who had trained dozens of jihadists on manufacturing explosive
devices in Yemen. Yesterday America''s top military commander General Martin
Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the diplomatic closures
were prompted by a "more specific" terror threat from al-Qaida and its
affiliates than encountered by officials in recent years, with intelligence
showing a clear "intent ... to attack Western, not just US, interests".

His remarks came as ABC News quoted an unnamed US official as saying: "The part
that is alarming is the confidence they (terrorists associated with Yemen-based
al-Qaida) showed while communicating and the air of certainty." The
second-in-command of al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, Saeed al-Shihiri, a
former Guantanamo Bay prisoner, died last month from injuries sustained in a US
drone strike in Yemen last year and reports surfaced that the group was seeking
revenge.

The threat led to the temporary closure of 21 US embassies and consulates across
the Middle East and beyond.

The State Department also issued a global travel alert, warning citizens of the
heightened threat of an attack, on Friday.

Governments in the UK, France and Germany said they, too, would temporarily
close their outposts in the Yemeni capital Sana''a.

profile Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula has been involved in a number of plots
in recent years to strike at US and Western targets. Ibrahim Al-Asiri, a Saudi
national, has been credited with being the producer of the bombs in most of
them, including the device worn by the 'underwear bomber' Umar Farouk
Abdulmutallab and the attempt on a cargo plane in 2010. His brother, Abdullah,
blew himself up in an attempt to assassinate Saudi security chief Mohammed bin
Nayef in 2009 while pretending to be a jihadist who had 'turned'.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2013 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                             August 5, 2013 Monday
                                   2 Edition

Embassies shut due to terror attack fears

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 134 words


USA: A total of 21 American embassies and consulates, mostly in the Middle East,
were closed due to fears of a terrorist attack.

The state department said the potential for an al-Qaeda inspired attack was
particularly strong in the Middle East and North Africa.

President Barack Obama was briefed on the situation by his senior security team.

A statement from the White House said: "The president has received frequent
briefings over the last week on all aspects of the potential threat and our
preparedness measures."

General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said there is "a
significant threat stream" and that the threat was more specific than previous
ones.

He said the "intent is to attack Western, not just US interests."

A global travel warning is also in force until the end of August.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       August 5, 2013 Monday 9:42 AM GMT

Was Boston Bomber a white supremacist? Investigation finds Tamerlan Tsarnaev was
in possession of right-wing extremist literature in run-up to terror attack

BYLINE: ANNA EDWARDS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 499 words



     ·    Tamerlan Tsarnaev read right-wing literature that claimed 'Hitler had
          a point'
     ·    The suspect had material that claimed the 9/11 was a government
          conspiracy
     ·    Tamerlan, 26, had literature on mass killings and how victims were
          murdered


One of the Boston Bomber suspects subscribed to right-wing white supremacy
literature and government conspiracy theories before the horrific attack which
killed three people.

Tamerlan Tsarnaev read extreme right-wing literature that claimed 'Hitler had a
point' and articles about the 'rape of our gun rights', an investigation has
found.

The 26-year-old also had material that claimed the 9/11 attacks and the 1995
Oklahoma City bombing were government conspiracies.

He and his brother Dzhokhar, originally from Chechnya, allegedly carried out the
bombing at the Boston marathon's finish line on April 15 which killed three
people and injured more than 260.

Until now the pair are believed to have carried out the attacks due to their
radical jihadist beliefs.

But an investigation by the BBC's Panorama programme has learnt that Tamerlan
possessed white supremacist literature, and material on mass killings and how
victims were murdered.

After the shoot-out, it emerged that Tamerlan had become interested in Islam -
but to what extent is unclear.

A spokesman for Tamerlan's mosque in Cambridge, Massachuessets, said Tamerlan
only prayed there occasionally, and described him as an angry man who latched
onto Islam, Panorama reported.

The older of the two Chechen brothers once dreamed of representing the U.S. as a
boxer, it was reported, but before the bombings had turned to Islam.

Tamerlan wasn't a devout practicing Muslim, but within the last two years had
begun praying five times a day, his aunt Maret Tsarnaeva has said.

The relative said that the brothers and their family came to the United States
in 2002 after she helped them apply for refugee status.

Tsarnaev has a three-year-old daughter called Zahara with Katherine Russell, 24,
who converted to Islam for her husband.

He received his American citizenship on September 11, 2012. He traveled to
Russia last year and returned to the U.S. six months later, government officials
told The Associated Press.

The eldest brother was killed in a police shootout on April 19 - four days after
he and his younger brother Dzhokhar allegedly set off bombs during the Boston
Marathon.

The gun battle happened a day after the FBI released images of him and his
younger brother at the Boston marathon.

His brother, 19-year-old Dzhokhar, was found hiding in a boat parked in a
suburban yard and suffered a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the neck.

They allegedly dumped two pressure cooker bombs crammed with shrapnel and
detonated them near the finish line, killing three people, including an
eight-year-old boy, and injuring 180 more.

Three people were killed in the cowardly attack and 264 more were wounded,
several of whom lost limbs.

Dzhokhar, 19, has pleaded not guilty to 30 charges, including 17 that carry the
death penalty.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             August 5, 2013 Monday

Embassies stay shut after terror attack warning

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 293 words


The US State Department said at the weekend that 19 US embassies and consulates
in the Middle East and Africa would remain closed until Saturday. It had
initially closed 21 diplomatic posts for the day on Sunday.

Britain had said last week that it would close its embassy in Yemen on August 4
and 5. It plans to keep its mission closed until Thursday, as does France. The
Yemeni Interior Ministry said late on Sunday that it would tighten security at
ports, airports, oil pipelines, power lines and other important sites during the
Eid holidays, which end at the weekend. It also called for stricter searches at
city checkpoints to prevent people from smuggling in weapons. US spokeswoman Jen
Psaki claimed that the decision to keep the embassies and consulates closed was
an "abundance of caution" and "not an indication of a new threat." Its
diplomatic facilities will remain closed until Sunday in Egypt, Jordan, Libya,
Yemen, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Madagascar, Burundi, Rwanda and Mauritius. The US
also issued a global travel alert, warning that al-Qaida or its allies might
target either US government or private US interests. Its decision to close the
embassies comes at a sensitive time as it tries to defend recently disclosed
surveillance programmes that have stirred deep privacy concerns. But Senate
judiciary committee chairman Patrick Leahy scoffed at the assertion by the head
of the National Security Agency that government methods used to collect
telephone and email data have helped foil 54 terror plots. However, suggestions
that the scare was merely an attempt to justify government electronic snooping
was shrugged off by lawmakers who claimed that, "whether or not there was any
controversy over the NSA, these actions would have been taken."

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2013 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                             August 5, 2013 Monday

US to keep embassies shut amid terrorist attack fear

LENGTH: 348  words


UNITED States diplomatic posts in 19 cities in the Muslim world will be closed
at least until the end of this week amid online "chatter" about terror threats.

The State Department said the decision to keep the embassies and consulates
closed is a sign of an "abundance of caution" and is "not an indication of a new
threat".

Diplomatic facilities will remain closed in Egypt, Jordan, Libya, Yemen, Saudi
Arabia and Kuwait, among other countries, until Saturday.

The US decided to reopen some posts yesterday, including those in Kabul,
Afghanistan and Baghdad.

The intelligence intercepts also prompted Britain, Germany and France to close
their embassies in Yemen on Sunday and yesterday. Some British embassy staff in
Yemen had been withdrawn owing to "security concerns". France said it would
extend the closure of its embassy in the Yemeni capital.

Interpol has also issued a global security alert in connection with suspected
al-Qaida involvement in several recent prison escapes including those in Iraq,
Libya and Pakistan.

Intercepted intelligence foreshadowing an attack on US or Western interests is
evidence of one of the gravest threats to the United States since the September
11 attacks, according to politicians who made the rounds on the weekend talk
shows.

"This is the most serious threat that I've seen in the last several years,"
senator Saxby Chambliss told NBC.

"Chatter means conversation among terrorists about the planning that's going on
- very reminiscent of what we saw pre-9/11."

Mr Chambliss, the top Republican on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said it
was that chatter that prompted the Obama administration to order Sunday's
closure of 22 embassies and consulates and issue a global travel warning to
Americans.

Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger, the top Democrat on the House of
Representatives Intelligence Committee, told ABC that the threat intercepted
from "high-level people in al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula" was about a "major
attack".

Yemen is home to al-Qaida's most dangerous affiliate, blamed for several notable
terrorist plots on the United States.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 6, 2013 Tuesday

Yemen on heightened security alert over likely terror attacks

LENGTH: 472 words


Excerpt from report by Kuwaiti newspaper Al-Siyasah website on 5 August

[Report by Yahya al-Sadmi: "Unprecedented Security Alert in Anticipation of
Large-Scale Terrorist Attacks"]

Senior Yemeni security sources say that dozens of Al-Qa'idah militants have
slipped out of Abyan, Shabwah, Hadramawt, and Ma'rib governorates to Sanaa over
the past few days.

The sources, who preferred anonymity, told Al-Siyasah that local residents
reported seeing Al-Qa'idah operatives going to mosques in Huzayz, Musayk,
Sa'wan, and Al-Sunaynah areas.

The sources explained that the Al-Qa'idah militants have come to Sanaa to carry
out large-scale terrorist attacks against embassies of Western and Arab
countries, and other vital installations, including the defence and interior
ministries, as well as other military and security installations. They will also
target officers in the army and security forces in retaliation for the killing
of 17 Al-Qa'idah leaders and militants in US drone attacks in Abyan, Shabwah,
and Hadramawt during the past few days.

The sources confirmed that the organization's terrorist plot includes using
motorcycles in assassinations, and sending suicide car bombers to carry out the
scheme in coordination with the organization's cells in Sanaa.

The sources added that the Yemeni authorities have tightened security measures
around the presidential palace and closed the Al-Sab'in square nearby. The
authorities spread security units around the Al-Sab'in area and placed concrete
barriers on the side streets against the backdrop of the Al-Qa'idah threats, and
lest military protesters should break into the area. The authorities have
tightened security measures around the headquarters of ministries and foreign
and Arab embassies, particularly the embassies that declared the closure of
their headquarters like the United States, Britain, Germany and France. Security
measures have also been heightened on oil companies and many security
checkpoints have been established in the streets of Sanaa in search of suspected
vehicles and wanted persons.

The sources pointed out that the authorities have issued a circular to army,
security, and intelligence agencies leadership warning of possible attacks by
Al-Qa'idah, and urging them to be cautious. The Interior Ministry said that it
had tightened security measures on government buildings and installations, the
national dialogue conference headquarters, and foreign facilities. The Interior
Ministry is conducting the necessary investigations, and has tightened
inspection procedures at security checkpoints in the cities, the security belt
surrounding the governorates, and in major cities, airports, seaports, and
crossings.

[Passage omitted on the arrest of a Saudi suicide bomber in Abyan; Covered in
referent item]

Source: Al-Siyasah website, Kuwait, in Arabic 5 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       August 6, 2013 Tuesday 4:43 PM GMT

US and UK governments airlift staff out of Yemen as al-Qa'ida threat level
rises;
US also urges all citizens to leave the Middle East country 'immediately'
following intercepted conversation between al-Qa'ida chiefs discussing imminent
major terror attack

BYLINE: Steve Anderson, Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 985 words


The US and UK governments have airlifted their staff out of Yemen amid fears of
an imminent major terror attack.

Officials said an intercepted conversation between the head of al-Qa'ida and his
deputy in Yemen revealed plans to target Western authorities, and it has led to
the US issuing a worldwide travel alert and closing down its embassies in the
region.

The British Foreign Office had previously said its diplomatic offices in the
capital Sana'a would be closed until the end of the festival of Eid later this
week, but it confirmed today it has now followed suit with the Americans and all
employees have been "temporarily withdrawn to the UK".

The US has urged its citizens to evacuate Yemen "immediately", and told anyone
planning on travelling there to postpone the trip, in a global warning of
terrorist activities and civil unrest.

A senior defence official said up to 100 government employees were flown out in
a C-17 military transport as dawn broke on Tuesday. They are believed to have
sought refuge at Ramstein Air Base in Germany.

The Department of State issued a statement which said it was "highly concerned
about possible attacks on US citizens", after officials said they had
intercepted a conversation between the head of al-Qa'ida and his deputy in Yemen
detailing plans of a major terror attack.

That intelligence initially led to the closure of embassies across the whole of
the Middle East, as well as a warning to all international travellers of a
perceived "high security threat level".

The State department said that there are currently no plans for the US to pay
for non-governmental evacuations, but it added that it would assist in getting
citizens out of the country if there was no safe commercial alternative.

Dozens of US military troops have stayed behind in Yemen, as they continue to
provide security at the embassy and conduct training with the state army.

Meanwhile Yemen security officials reported that a suspected US drone strike at
2am on Tuesday killed four alleged members of al-Qa'ida in a volatile eastern
province of the country. They said it was the fourth drone strike in two weeks
to hit a car carrying suspected terrorists, but couldn't say whether  those
attacks were linked to the current high security threat level.

US fears were first sparked after a message between terrorist leader Ayman
al-Zawahri, who took over from Osama bin Laden following his death, and Nasser
al-Wahishi, the head of the network's Yemeni-based faction, known as al-Qa'ida
in the Arabian Peninsula, was picked up several weeks ago. It had appeared to
target Yemeni interests, a US intelligence official and Middle East diplomat
told the Associated Press.

However, the threat was later expanded to include American and other Western
sites abroad, making it unclear as to whether it would be targeting a single
embassy, a number of posts or another site.

In response to what has been described as a level of terror threat not seen
since before the 9/11 attacks, the US in turn shut 19 of its diplomatic posts,
which will remain closed until next Saturday. The UK's embassy in Yemen will
remain closed until the end of the Muslim festival Eid, though the Foreign
Office would not confirm that the message from al-Zawahri was the cause of the
closure.

British nationals have been warned there is a "high threat" from terrorism in
the Middle Eastern country.

The FCO has been warned against all travel to Yemen, and those in the country
have been advised to leave immediately, as it is "extremely unlikely" that their
evacuation could be arranged if the security situation deteriorates.

"There is a high threat from terrorism throughout Yemen", the FCO said.

"Terrorists continue to threaten further attacks. There is a very high threat of
kidnap from armed tribes, criminals and terrorists."

American spies and intelligence analysts yesterday scoured email, phone calls
and radio communications between al-Qa'ida operatives in Yemen and the
organization's senior leaders to determine the timing and targets of the planned
attack.

The call from al-Zawahri, who took over for Bin Laden after US Navy SEALs killed
the al-Qa'ida leader in May 2011, led the Obama administration to close
diplomatic posts from Mauritania on Africa's west coast through the Middle East
to Bangladesh, east of India, and as far south as Madagascar.

The US did decide to reopen some posts on Monday, including well-defended
embassies in Kabul, Afghanistan, and Baghdad.

Authorities in Yemen, meanwhile, released the names of 25 wanted al-Qa'ida
suspects and said those people had been planning terrorist attacks targeting
"foreign offices and organizations and Yemeni installations" in the capital
Sanaa and other cities across the country.

The Yemeni government also went on high alert Monday, stepping up security at
government facilities and checkpoints.

Officials in the US wouldn't say which of its agencies intercepted the initial
suspect communications, and said the decision to close the embassies was based
on a broad swath of information. They said that while AQAP is in contact with
al-Qa'ida leadership, it makes its own operational decisions.

The surveillance is part of the continuing effort to track the spread of
al-Qa'ida from its birthplace in Afghanistan and Pakistan to countries where
governments and security forces are weaker and less welcoming to the US.

AQAP has previously been blamed for the foiled Christmas Day 2009 effort to bomb
an airliner over Detroit and the explosives-laden parcels intercepted the
following year aboard cargo flights.

White House spokesman Jay Carney wouldn't say whether the current threat extends
to the United States or whether Americans should be fearful because of the
alerts.

"What we know is the threat emanates from, and may be focused on occurring in,
the Arabian Peninsula," Carney said. "It could potentially be beyond that, or
elsewhere. We cannot be more specific."

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       August 6, 2013 Tuesday 3:02 PM GMT

US urges its citizens and staff to leave Yemen 'immediately' as al-Qa'ida threat
level rises;
Announcement follows intercepted conversation between al-Qa'ida chiefs
discussing major terror attack which sparked US embassy closures

BYLINE: Steve Anderson, Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 806 words


An intercepted conversation between the head of al-Qa'ida and his deputy in
Yemen detailing plans of a major terror attack was what led to the US issuing a
worldwide travel alert and closing down its embassies in the region, officials
have said.

The US has urged its citizens to evacuate Yemen "immediately", and told anyone
planning on travelling there to postpone the trip, in a global warning of
terrorist activities and civil unrest.

All non-emergency government employees have been ordered to leave the country,
and the Department of State issued a statement which said it was "highly
concerned about possible attacks on US citizens".

Today's announcement came after officials said they had intercepted a
conversation between the head of al-Qa'ida and his deputy in Yemen detailing
plans of a major terror attack.

That intelligence led to the closure of embassies across the region, as well as
a warning to all international travellers of a perceived "high security threat
level".

The State department said that there are currently no plans for the US to pay
for evacuations, but it added that it would assist in getting citizens out of
the country if there was no safe commercial alternative.

Fears were first sparked after a message between terrorist leader Ayman
al-Zawahri, who took over from Osama bin Laden following his death, and Nasser
al-Wahishi, the head of the network's Yemeni-based faction, known as al-Qa'ida
in the Arabian Peninsula, was picked up several weeks ago. It had appeared to
target Yemeni interests, a US intelligence official and Middle East diplomat
told the Associated Press.

However, the threat was later expanded to include American and other Western
sites abroad, making it unclear as to whether it would be targeting a single
embassy, a number of posts or another site.

In response to what has been described as a level of terror threat not seen
since before the 9/11 attacks, the US in turn shut 19 of its diplomatic posts,
which will remain closed until next Saturday. The UK's embassy in Yemen will
remain closed until the end of the Muslim festival Eid, though the Foreign
Office would not confirm that the message from al-Zawahri was the cause of the
closure.

British nationals have been warned there is a "high threat" from terrorism in
the Middle Eastern country.

The FCO has been warned against all travel to Yemen, and those in the country
have been advised to leave immediately, as it is "extremely unlikely" that their
evacuation could be arranged if the security situation deteriorates.

"There is a high threat from terrorism throughout Yemen", the FCO said.

"Terrorists continue to threaten further attacks. There is a very high threat of
kidnap from armed tribes, criminals and terrorists."

American spies and intelligence analysts yesterday scoured email, phone calls
and radio communications between al-Qa'ida operatives in Yemen and the
organization's senior leaders to determine the timing and targets of the planned
attack.

The call from al-Zawahri, who took over for Bin Laden after US Navy SEALs killed
the al-Qa'ida leader in May 2011, led the Obama administration to close
diplomatic posts from Mauritania on Africa's west coast through the Middle East
to Bangladesh, east of India, and as far south as Madagascar.

The US did decide to reopen some posts on Monday, including well-defended
embassies in Kabul, Afghanistan, and Baghdad.

Authorities in Yemen, meanwhile, released the names of 25 wanted al-Qa'ida
suspects and said those people had been planning terrorist attacks targeting
"foreign offices and organizations and Yemeni installations" in the capital
Sanaa and other cities across the country.

The Yemeni government also went on high alert Monday, stepping up security at
government facilities and checkpoints.

Officials in the US wouldn't say which of its agencies intercepted the initial
suspect communications, and said the decision to close the embassies was based
on a broad swath of information. They said that while AQAP is in contact with
al-Qa'ida leadership, it makes its own operational decisions.

The surveillance is part of the continuing effort to track the spread of
al-Qa'ida from its birthplace in Afghanistan and Pakistan to countries where
governments and security forces are weaker and less welcoming to the US.

AQAP has previously been blamed for the foiled Christmas Day 2009 effort to bomb
an airliner over Detroit and the explosives-laden parcels intercepted the
following year aboard cargo flights.

White House spokesman Jay Carney wouldn't say whether the current threat extends
to the United States or whether Americans should be fearful because of the
alerts.

"What we know is the threat emanates from, and may be focused on occurring in,
the Arabian Peninsula," Carney said. "It could potentially be beyond that, or
elsewhere. We cannot be more specific."

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       August 6, 2013 Tuesday 7:54 AM GMT

Tapped conversation between al-Qa'ida chiefs discussing major terror attack
sparked US embassy closures;
Terror group's leader Ayman al-Zawahri to deputy in Yemen led Obama
administration to shut diplomatic posts from west Africa to Bangladesh

BYLINE: Steve Anderson

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 1322 words


An intercepted conversation between the head of al-Qa'ida and his deputy in
Yemen detailing plans of a major terror attack was what led to the US issuing a
worldwide travel alert and closing down its embassies in the region, officials
have said.

A message between top leader Ayman al-Zawahri, who took over from Osama bin
Laden following his death, and Nasser al-Wahishi, the head of the network's
Yemeni-based faction, known as al-Qa'ida in the Arabian Peninsula, was picked up
several weeks ago, and at first had appeared to target Yemeni interests, a US
intelligence official and Middle East diplomat told the Associated Press.

However, the threat was later expanded to include American and other Western
sites abroad, making it unclear as to whether it would be targeting a single
embassy, a number of posts or another site.

In response to what has been described as a level of terror threat not seen
since before the 9/11 attacks, the US in turn shut 19 of its diplomatic posts,
which will remain closed until next Saturday. The UK's embassy in Yemen will
remain closed until the end of the Muslim festival Eid, though the Foreign
Office would not confirm that the message from al-Zawahri was the cause of the
closure.

British nationals have been warned there is a "high threat" from terrorism in
the Middle Eastern country.

The FCO has been warned against all travel to Yemen, and those in the country
have been advised to leave immediately, as it is "extremely unlikely" that their
evacuation could be arranged if the security situation deteriorates.

"There is a high threat from terrorism throughout Yemen", the FCO said.

"Terrorists continue to threaten further attacks. There is a very high threat of
kidnap from armed tribes, criminals and terrorists."

American spies and intelligence analysts yesterday scoured email, phone calls
and radio communications between al-Qa'ida operatives in Yemen and the
organization's senior leaders to determine the timing and targets of the planned
attack. The call from al-Zawahri, who took over for Bin Laden after US Navy
SEALs killed the al-Qa'ida leader in May 2011, led the Obama administration to
close diplomatic posts from Mauritania on Africa's west coast through the Middle
East to Bangladesh, east of India, and as far south as Madagascar.

The US did decide to reopen some posts on Monday, including well-defended
embassies in Kabul, Afghanistan, and Baghdad.

Authorities in Yemen, meanwhile, released the names of 25 wanted al-Qa'ida
suspects and said those people had been planning terrorist attacks targeting
"foreign offices and organizations and Yemeni installations" in the capital
Sanaa and other cities across the country.

The Yemeni government also went on high alert Monday, stepping up security at
government facilities and checkpoints.

Officials in the US wouldn't say who intercepted the initial suspect
communications - the CIA, the National Security Agency, the Defense Intelligence
Agency or one of the other intelligence agencies - that kicked off the sweeping
pre-emptive closure of US facilities. But an intelligence official said the
controversial NSA programs that gather data on American phone calls or track
Internet communications with suspected terrorists played no part in detecting
the initial tip. That official spoke on condition of anonymity because the
official was not authorized to discuss the spying publicly.

A US official familiar with the threat information said the decision to close
the embassies was based on a broad swath of information, not just the intercept.
The official said the US has made clear in the past that AQAP makes its own
operational decisions - that there are back-and-forth communications between
al-Qa'ida leadership and AQAP, but that they operate independently. The official
was not authorized to disclose the information to reporters and thus spoke on
condition of anonymity.

Once the plot was detected, NSA analysts could use the programs that leaker
Edward Snowden revealed to determine whom the plotters may have contacted around
the world. Snowden revealed one program that collected telephone data such as
the numbers called and the duration of calls on US telephone networks. Another
program searched global Internet usage. Therefore, if a new name was detected in
the initial chatter, the name or phone number of that person could be run
through the NSA databases to see whom he called or what websites or emails he
visited.

The surveillance is part of the continuing effort to track the spread of
al-Qa'ida from its birthplace in Afghanistan and Pakistan to countries where
governments and security forces are weaker and less welcoming to the US or
harder for American counterterrorist forces to penetrate - such as Syria, Iraq,
Somalia, Mali and Libya - as well as Yemen, already home to al-Qa'ida's most
dangerous affiliate, al-Qa'ida in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), which is headed
by al-Wahishi.

AQAP also has been blamed for the foiled Christmas Day 2009 effort to bomb an
airliner over Detroit and the explosives-laden parcels intercepted the following
year aboard cargo flights. The CIA and Pentagon jointly run drone targeting of
al-Qa'ida in Yemen.

The Obama administration announced the embassy closures one day after President
Barack Obama met with Yemeni President Abdo Rabby Mansour Hadi. A person
familiar with the meeting said Obama and Hadi did discuss al-Qa'ida in the
Arabian Peninsula but their talks did not directly result in the embassy
closures and travel ban.

That person insisted on anonymity because the person was not authorized to
discuss the private meeting.

White House spokesman Jay Carney wouldn't say whether the threat extends to the
United States or whether Americans should be fearful because of the alerts.

"What we know is the threat emanates from, and may be focused on, occurring in
the Arabian Peninsula," Carney said. "It could potentially be beyond that, or
elsewhere."

"We cannot be more specific," he said.

The US also has stepped up surveillance in Africa, flying unarmed observation
drones from Libya, focused in that country on a mix of militant groups in the
town of Darna. A newer U.S. operation opened last year at an airfield in Niger,
aimed at tracking another affiliate, al-Qa'ida in the Islamic Maghreb, in
neighboring Mali.

The model for both is the US operation in Somalia. CIA officers there provide
intelligence, and special operators advise UN peacekeeping troops on tactics as
well as delivering surveillance and intelligence - carrying out the occasional
raid against pirates or militants.

Acting on what it said was an "overabundance of caution," the State Department
on Sunday closed a total of 19 diplomatic posts until next Saturday. They
include posts in Bangladesh and across North Africa and the Middle East as well
as East Africa, including Madagascar, Burundi, Rwanda and Mauritius. The closure
of the African facilities came just days before the 15th anniversary of
al-Qa'ida's bombings of American diplomatic missions in Kenya and Tanzania.

Those two embassies targeted in the Aug. 7, 1998 attacks were rebuilt as more
heavily fortified structures away from populated areas where they would be less
vulnerable to attack.

One senior US diplomat in the region said his diplomatic facility was keeping a
skeleton US staff working to provide some US citizen services, but was limiting
movements in and out of the area and remained closed to the general public.
Diplomatic staff were taking precautions standard for the region even in normal
times - avoiding areas of known militant activity and varying times and routes
for business or personal meetings. The official spoke on condition of anonymity
because the official was not authorized to discuss the closures publicly.
Norway's Foreign Ministry, too, restricted public access to 15 of its embassies
in the Middle East and Africa, including its post in Saudi Arabia.

Additional reporting by Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 6, 2013 Tuesday 10:46 PM GMT

Terrorist leader charged in Benghazi attack, as CNN prepares to air first-ever
broadcast INTERVIEW with him

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 857 words


U.S. government officials have reportedly filed the first criminal charges
related to the Sept. 11, 2012 attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya
that left four Americans dead and a diplomatic outpost in ruins.

Arwa Damon, a CNN reporter, spoke with Ansar al-Sharia leader Ahmed Abu Khattala
in an interview to be broadcast Tuesday night. The network  first reported on
the criminal charges against Khattala a few hours before airtime.

The U.S. government has not yet spoken with Khattala, but CNN found him in
Benghazi, the eastern port city where militants with an al-Qaeda-linked group
fired mortars and gunfire, killing U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three
others.

'It's still stunning to see how little protection this sprawling compound had,'
Damon says in the preview footage, walking through the burned-out remains of the
U.S. Consulate.

CNN released a few short video clips Tuesday afternoon, but neither included
portions of the Khattala interview, which the network said would not include any
footage of the suspected terror ringleader's face.

He told CNN, however, that while he was present in the U.S. Consulate compound
when hostilities began, he played no part in it.

Khattala said in the interview that no Libyan or American officials have reached
out to him.

'Never,' he said.

'Even the investigative team did not try to contact me, he said, referring to
the FBI.

OutFront host Erin Burnett also interviewed Geoff Porter, director of North
Africa Risk Consulting Inc. Porter was responsible for briefing Ambassador
Stevens on security risks, according to CNN, and spoke about why security at the
diplomatic outpost was so sparse.

'What we're essentially talking about is a CIA mission in Benghazi, whose
purpose was to collect information, to collect weapons potentially,' Porter
says, 'and they may have deliberately wanted to keep a low security profile.'

'There were so many different violent non-state actors - armed groups - that the
U.S. couldn't identify the threat. They couldn't distinguish which was a group
threatening the United States' interests, and which was simply a violent
non-state actor pursuing its own agenda.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEOS

At least two other media outlets interviewed Ahmed Abu Khattala in October 2012.

At the time, he scoffed at reports that said 'no one knows where I am and that I
am hiding.'

'But here I am in the open,' he told  Reuters, 'sitting in a hotel with you. I'm
even going to pick up my sister's kids from school soon.'

He also told  The New York Times a story that resonated with the Obama
administration's earliest contentions about the terror attack.

Khattala 'contended that the attack had grown out of a peaceful protest against
a video made in the United States that mocked the Prophet Muhammad and Islam,'
the Times reported.

'He also said that guards inside the compound - Libyan or American, he was not
sure - had shot first at the demonstrators, provoking them.'

Khattala was a member of the Islamist opposition when Muammar Gaddaffi was
alive, and spent years in the country's notorious Abu Salim jail. After his
release in 2011, he helped the rebels capture and kill the longtime dictator.

Ansar al-Sharia, his brainchild along with other former political prisoners,
means 'supporters of Islamic law.' At the time of the attack, Libyan sources
said the group numbered between 100 and 200 people.

Damon's reporting has brought outrage from eight congressional Republicans, who
castigated the newly confirmed FBI Director James Comey in a letter and demanded
a full investigative briefing within 30 days.

The Obama administration's investigation of the attack, they wrote, has been
'simply unacceptable.'

'It has been more than 10 months since the attacks,' the letter reads. 'We
appear to be no closer to knowing who was responsible today than we were in the
early weeks following the attack.'

xxxxxxx

Utah Republican Rep. Jason Chaffetz, a vocal proponent of a more aggressive
Benghazi administration, told reporters on July 31 that "one of the pertinent
questions today is, why we have not captured or killed the terrorists who
committed these attacks?'

If 'CNN was able to go in and talk to one of the suspected terrorists,' he
asked, after news of the Ahmed Abu Khattala interview percolated throughout
Washington, 'how come the military hasn't been able to get after them and
capture or kill the people? How come the FBI isn't doing this and yet CNN is?'

He added that he would be willing to speak with investigators, 'but not as an
interrogation, as a conversation like the one we are having right now.'

Chaffetz said during a July 31  Fox News broadcast that the FBI hasn't placed a
high priority on bringing to justice the attackers who are connected with the
Ansar al-Sharia.

'Our FBI has never talked to these people,' Chaffetz said, 'and that's just
wholly unacceptable.'

During the 10:00 pm EDT 'The Truth about Benghazi' CNN broadcast, OutFront host
Erin Burnett will also interview family members of Tyrone Woods, Glen Doherty,
Sean Smith and U.S. Ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens, all of whom died in the
terror attack last year.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      August 6, 2013 Tuesday 11:41 AM GMT

US orders citizens out of Yemen over fears of major terrorist attack

BYLINE: Bo Wilson

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 438 words


The US state department today ordered its citizens in Yemen to leave immediately
because of fears of a major terrorist attack.

At the same time five US drone missiles were said to have killed four suspected
al Qaeda members travelling in a car in central Yemen.

The British Government issued the highest possible security alert yesterday for
shipping off the coast of Yemen, a major oil route. The Foreign Office advised
against all travel to the country. Several European countries have also shut
missions in Yemen.

It followed the revelation that intercepted conversations between the head of al
Qaeda and his deputy in Yemen led to the sudden closure of 22 American
diplomatic missions in the Middle East and Africa.

The internet chatter involved the leader of the Islamist terror group Ayman
al-Zawahiri in Pakistan and Nasser al-Wuhayshi. It represented one of the most
serious plots since 9/11 and the attacks were thought to be imminent, the New
York Times reported.

According to the paper, US officials said it was highly unusual for senior group
leaders in Pakistan to discuss operational matters with offshoots including the
group in Yemen. But counter-terrorism officials said that in recent weeks
Zawahiri has elevated Wuhayshi to the second most important man in the
organisation.

Zawahiri succeeded Osama bin Laden as al Qaeda chief, and Wuhayshi is leader of
a group called al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.

The paper said that no targets had been singled out in the chatter but US
politicians have said it was a huge plot.

BBC correspondent Abdullah Ghorab in the Yemeni capital Sanaa said the city has
been experiencing unprecedented security measures, with hundreds of armoured
military vehicles deployed to secure the presidential palace, vital
infrastructure and Western embassies.

The BBC said that a security source confirmed Yemeni intelligence services had
discovered that al Qaeda members had arrived in Sanaa over the past few days
from other regions in preparation for a large attack.

The US state department also issued a global travel alert until the end of the
month. Some US diplomatic posts were re-opened but Abu Dhabi, Amman, Cairo,
Riyadh, Dhahran, Jeddah, Doha, Dubai, Kuwait, Manama, Muscat, Sanaa and Tripoli
will remain shut until Saturday.

White House spokesman Jay Carney said he could not be "specific" about the
threats. He said: "Our current information suggests that al Qaeda and affiliated
organisations continue to plan terrorist attacks both in the region and beyond.

"And our information suggests that they may focus efforts to conduct attacks in
the period between now and the end of August."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 6, 2013 Tuesday 7:57 PM GMT

How al-Qaeda's master bombmaker lends weight to fears of new terror attack;
A youthful Saudi extremist who remains largely unknown has quietly achieved for
al-Qaeda the terrorist version of cracking the Enigma code.

BYLINE: By David Blair

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 428 words


Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri, the master bombmaker of al-Qaeda's branch in Yemen, has
designed a device that can pass undetected through airport security.

His expertise lends credibility to reports that al-Qaeda may be preparing a
major attack in the next few weeks, leading the US to close its embassies and
consulates in sensitive countries and evacuate diplomats from Yemen.

Asiri managed this breakthrough by making his bombs from an explosive known as
pentaerythritol tetranitrate, or PETN. This foils sniffer dogs by having no
odour and defeats X-ray machines by appearing identical to any number of
innocent materials.

It can also be easily concealed inside everyday items. In 2010, two of Asiri's
creations were hidden inside the ink cartridges of computer printers and placed
on separate cargo planes bound for America. The plan, apparently, was to
detonate the devices in mid-air using mobile phones.

Asiri's bombs duly passed through security at five different international
airports, including East Midlands in Britain, and only a tip-off from an
al-Qaeda defector working for Saudi Arabia's intelligence agency averted
disaster.

Earlier, a Nigerian student armed with another of Asiri's devices tried to
destroy an airliner over Detroit on Christmas Day 2009. This time, the
explosives were concealed inside the bomber's underwear. In the event, they
achieved nothing except to singe the erstwhile terrorist. Whether the error was
one of design or execution, however, is unclear.

In 2009, Asiri sent his younger brother, Abdullah, to Jeddah on a suicide
mission to assassinate Prince Mohammed bin Nayef, then Saudi Arabia's deputy
interior minister. By posing as an al-Qaeda defector, Abdullah secured a
personal audience with Prince Mohammed. The bomb made of PETN passed through all
security checks - and Asiri's brother managed to detonate the device, but
succeeded only in killing himself.

Asiri, 31, was listed among Saudi Arabia's most wanted terrorists in February
2009 when he was only 26. Born in Riyadh, he is understood to have joined
al-Qaeda inside the kingdom. Later, he spent time in jail after trying to enter
Iraq and join the campaign against Western forces.

In common with many Saudi al-Qaeda operatives, he fled over the southern border
and joined the new network in Yemen. There is little doubt that Asiri now
appears on America's target list for drone strikes and, on at least one
occasion, he has already been reported dead. However, officials believe he is
still at large - and that he possesses some of al-Qaeda's most dangerous
expertise.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 6, 2013 Tuesday 6:42 PM GMT

UK and US urge all citizens to leave Yemen 'immediately';
Britain and America urged their citizens to leave Yemen immediately last night
after it emerged that Ayman al-Zawahiri, the new leader of al Qeada, had
allegedly discussed plans for an imminent terror attack on Western interests.

BYLINE: By David Blair

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 607 words


The Foreign Office also announced the closure of Britain's embassy in the Yemeni
capital, Sana'a, and the withdrawal of all staff, while a US air force plane
landed in the city to evacuate non-essential American diplomats.

The US had already closed its embassy in Yemen along with those in 14 other
countries across the Middle East and Africa over the terror threat, details of
which first emerged at the end of last week. It has now affected US embassies in
countries as diverse as Burundi, Madagascar, Sudan and Kuwait.

On Tuesday it emerged that the trigger for the alert was an intercepted order
from Ayman al-Zawahiri, the Egyptian doctor who succeeded Osama bin Laden as
leader of al-Qaeda. This conversation, detected by US electronic eavesdropping
last week, apparently took place between Zawahiri and Nasser al-Wuhayshi, the
commander of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP).

The two men are understood to have discussed a specific plan for imminent
attacks on US and Western interests, in what has been described as one of the
most serious plots since 9/11.

AQAP, which is based in Yemen, has become al-Qaeda's most active network.

Zawahiri and the remnants of al-Qaeda's core leadership in Pakistan are focused
mainly on survival and avoiding drone strikes.

Other al-Qaeda branches, notably those in Somalia, Iraq and Mali, are largely
engaged in fighting local conflicts. But officials judge that AQAP has the
capability and intention to strike Western targets.

Wuhaysi, formerly a close aide to bin Laden, is believed to have become the
deputy leader of al-Qaeda's entire network. AQAP's leading bomb-maker, Ibrahim
Hassan al-Asiri, has managed to design a device capable of passing through
airport security.

AQAP was behind the failed attempt to destroy an airliner over Detroit in 2009.
It also managed to conceal one of Asiri's bombs on a cargo plane that landed at
East Midlands Airport in 2010. The device was never detected: only a warning
from Saudi Arabia's intelligence service led to it being found and safely
defused.

Given these previous incidents and their overall assessment of AQAP, America and
Britain clearly judged that the latest information was strong enough to warrant
a general alert.

"We are concerned about a threat stream indicating the potential for terrorist
attacks against US persons or facilities overseas," said the US State
Department. In response, US citizens were urged to "defer travel to Yemen and
those US citizens currently living in Yemen to depart immediately". The State
Department added that AQAP was "active throughout Yemen".

Britain used similar language, with the Foreign Office "strongly" urging
"British nationals to leave" Yemen because of a "high threat from terrorism".

After years of civil war, Yemen's central government under President Abd Rabbuh
Mansour al-Hadi has little control over much of the country. Al-Qaeda has always
targeted countries with "ungoverned space" and multiple local conflicts - and
Yemen has this in abundance. AQAP's origins go back to 2004 when Saudi Arabia's
campaign against al-Qaeda cells led key figures to flee over the border into
Yemen.

The focus of America's drone campaign has moved from Pakistan to Yemen, where
the majority of strikes now take place. Yesterday, four al-Qaeda operatives are
believed to have been killed in a drone attack in eastern Yemen.

The country's own intelligence service is understood to have discovered that
AQAP fighters have entered Sana'a in the last few days. Yesterday, the
authorities released 25 names of people suspected of planning attacks on
"foreign offices and organisations and Yemeni installations".

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 6, 2013 Tuesday 6:37 PM GMT

UK and US urge all citizens to leave Yemen 'immediately';
Britain and America urged their citizens to leave Yemen immediately last night
after it emerged that Ayman al-Zawahiri, the new leader of al Qeada, had
allegedly discussed plans for an imminent terror attack on Western interests.

BYLINE: By David Blair Raf Sanchez in Washington

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 793 words


The Foreign Office meanwhile said it had temporarily withdrawn all staff from
its embassy "due to increased security concerns."

"Due to increased security concerns, all staff in our Yemen Embassy have been
temporarily withdrawn, and the embassy will remain closed until staff are able
to return," the FCO said in a statement.

The US has stepped up drone strikes against terrorist leaders in Yemen in recent
days. Yemeni security officials said on Tuesday that four alleged al-Qaeda
members had been targeted by a drone operating over a volatile eastern province.
The drone fired a missile at a car carrying the four men, setting it on fire and
killing all of them, the officials said.

Officials said they believe one of the dead is Saleh Jouti, a senior al-Qaeda
member. It is the fourth drone attack in the past week to hit a car believed to
be carrying al-Qaeda members.

The US embassy in Yemen has already closed, along with 18 other missions across
the Middle East and North Africa. All non-essential diplomats have been
withdrawn from the country. But the State Department went still further by
issuing a statement urging "US citizens to defer travel to Yemen and those US
citizens currently living in Yemen to depart immediately".

Yemen is the base for "al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula" (AQAP), the branch of
the terrorist movement that is believed to pose the greatest threat to Western
interests. The US regional alert is believed to have been sparked by intercepted
conversations between Ayman al-Zawahiri, the overall leader of al-Qaeda, and
Nasser al-Wuhayshi, the commander of AQAP in Yemen.

They are understood to have discussed a specific plot for imminent attacks on
American interests in the region. During these conversations, Wuhaysi is also
believed to have been given responsibility for leading a new al-Qaeda campaign
against the West.

The State Department made clear that AQAP was "active throughout Yemen", adding:
"The US government remains highly concerned about possible attacks on US
citizens (whether visiting or residing in Yemen), and US facilities, businesses,
and perceived US and Western interests".

US intelligence picked up on messages in which Ayman al-Zawahiri, Osama bin
Laden's successor, ordered Nasser al-Wuhayshi, the head of its Yemen branch, to
carry out an attack.

The messages represent rare coordination between al-Qaeda 's core leadership,
which is in hiding in Pakistan, and al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP),
the terror group's most dangerous offshoot.

In response the US has ordered the unprecedented closure of embassies in 19
countries across the Middle East and Africa until at least Saturday.

Britain, Germany, France and Holland have also closed their embassies in Sana'a,
the Yemeni capital, until later in the week.

The electronic communication between the two terror leaders reportedly indicated
that the attack was imminent but did not reveal the specific target.

US officials were alarmed to see Zawahiri involved in the operational detail of
the plot as al-Qaeda's core leadership was thought to have been reduced to a
mainly symbolic role.

"Its shows that there are active lines of communications between the centre and
the franchises and appears to show that al-Qaeda core has some a level of
control over AQAP," said Aki Peritz, a former CIA counter-terrorism analyst.

CNN and the New York Times both reported they learned of Zawahiri's involvement
last week but were asked to keep it secret by the US government.

Al-Wuhayshi, the AQAP leader, is a former lieutenant to bin Laden and presided
over the failed attempt to bring down a Detroit-bound airliner in December 2009.

"This is the most serious threat that I've seen in the last several years," said
Senator Saxby Chambliss, the leading Republican on the Senate intelligence
committee.

The US announced it was closing 22 posts throughout the Middle East and Africa
on Thursday. It has since re-opened seven but shut down four others in the
African nations of Madagascar, Burundi, Rwanda, and Mauritius.

A spokesman for the US State Department said the new closures had been made
based on "an abundance of caution" and did not indicate a "new threat stream" in
Africa.

The focus for now remains on Yemen and the Foreign Office has urged British
nationals to leave the country.

"There is a high threat from terrorism throughout Yemen, as well as a very high
threat of kidnap from armed tribes, criminals and terrorists," a spokesman for
the Foreign Office said.

Authorities in Yemen, meanwhile, released the names of 25 wanted al-Qaida
suspects and said those people had been planning terrorist attacks targeting
"foreign offices and organizations and Yemeni installations" in the capital
Sanaa and other cities across the country.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 7, 2013 Wednesday

Paper condemns opposition for recent terror attacks in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 361 words


Text of editorial entitled: "Enough with hatred" by state-owned Afghan newspaper
Anis on 5 August

With the arrival of the holy month of Ramadan, which God's final book, the Holy
Koran, describes as better than a thousand months, the opposition was expected
to stop killing the innocent and put an end to their suicide attacks as a sign
of respect for this holy month. But this evil act seems to be running in their
blood and makes who they are. Not only did they fail to reduce their attacks,
they increased their attacks against families who have suffered enough for the
past several decades and only wish to spend some time in peace alongside one
another. They made them mourn again.

In their most recent act during the last 10 days of the holy month of Ramadan,
which coincides with the revelation of the Holy Koran, the enemies of the people
of Afghanistan targeted the residents of Jalalabad for two consecutive days.
They sent to graveyards and hospitals the children and youth who were awaiting
the joy of Id.

By chanting the slogan 'enough with hatred', the people of Afghanistan want to
tell the enemies of peace and reconciliation that you and your masters will not
achieve your filthy objectives through these acts. On the contrary, you will
prompt the people of Afghanistan to stand with their international allies to
show a stronger determination to eliminate ignorance and backwardness in this
proud country without being affected by any terrorist attacks on the consulates
or diplomatic offices of India or any other countries to whose protection Afghan
security forces are committed.

According to experts, if the attacks on Indian diplomatic offices are aimed at
damaging the relationship between India and Afghanistan, it should be
highlighted that good relations between these two countries are in the interest
of stability and security in the region. Close ties between Afghanistan and
India as two independent countries with their own national sovereignty and
common objectives will contribute to security and economic development not only
in the region surrounding the heart of Asia but also to the entire world.

Source: Anis, Kabul, in Dari 5 Aug 13, p 1

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 7, 2013 Wednesday

Paper says no terrorist attack can break India-Afghanistan friendship

LENGTH: 935 words


Text of article "No terrorist attack can break India-Afghanistan resolve" by
state-owned Afghan newspaper Hewad on 6 August

Following a car bomb attack on the Indian consulate and clashes in eastern
Nangarhar Province three days ago, the Afghan government contacted India and
said that no attack on any Indian political mission can affect mutual relations
and close friendship. Nine people were killed and more than 20 others were
wounded in the attack on the Indian consulate in Jalalabad town on Saturday [3
August]. Most of the victims were civilians. Pakistan also carried out a planned
attack on the Indian embassy and diplomats in Kabul some years ago.

India knows that the attack was planned in Pakistan and ISI gave 500,000 rupees
to the attackers. However, such attacks cannot undermine the Afghan-India
relationship and friendship, but will further deepen and strengthen it. Pakistan
should realize that Afghanistan has a strategic agreement with India and they
have assisted each other in different areas over the past years. Moreover, India
has donated more than 2.5bn dollars to Afghanistan and has implemented important
projects. Therefore, such attacks can never undermine the friendship between
India and Afghanistan.

Afghanistan is preparing for signing a security pact with America provided that
it destroys the backbone of terrorists in Pakistan who carry out such attacks in
Afghanistan and improves Afghanistan's security, stability, development and
social system. We admit that as a diplomatic custom, America condemned the
attack on the Indian consulate and has voiced concerns over civilian casualties
in the holy month of Ramadan. The embassy said:

"Terrorists once again demonstrated their recklessness about the lives of
civilians in their attacks."

However, America is more expected to punish the culprits than to maintain its
friendship and even give the weapons it has in Afghanistan to them. It does not
want its withdrawal via Pakistan to face any problems. Anyhow, the foreign war
for foreign objectives in Afghanistan is extremely dangerous which has killed
many Afghans and destroyed the country for the past some years. Pakistan
apparently carries out the ongoing attacks in Afghanistan. Its intelligence
agency gave 500,000 rupees to the mastermind of the attack on the Indian
consulate as a reward.

Senior Indian officials say that it is clear as to who poses danger to
Afghanistan's security and stability. They say:

"The terrorism machine in the neighbouring country represents the biggest threat
to Afghanistan's security and stability. Such attacks can never affect the
friendship between Kabul and New Delhi. We extend our condolences to the victims
of the incident and will continue our cooperation with Afghanistan."

Observers believe that Islamabad is concerned about close ties between Kabul and
Delhi. However, Kabul has always maintained balance in its foreign relations.

When the suicide attack was carried out in front of Indian embassy in Kabul in
1387 [2009] that killed 40 people and wounded more than 100 others and a similar
attack in 1388 [2010] killed at least 17 people and wounded more than 60 others,
these attacks further strengthened relations between Kabul and Delhi. India is
one of the major donor countries that has spent millions of dollars in
education, construction and economic sectors over the past 12 years. Kabul and
New Delhi also signed the strategic cooperation pact in late 2011. America is
also conducting a war on terror.

But it considers Pakistan its strong ally that trains terrorists. Relations
between Islamabad and Washington are apparently strained. But, America is
withdrawing the weapons and equipment stained with the blood of Afghans and
giving them to Pakistan. Pakistan's army is obtaining privileges in the war on
terror, but is not fighting terrorism.

According to reports, the American army will hand over combat equipment to
Pakistan's army after completing its combat mission in Afghanistan. America also
gave weapons to Pakistan's army in 1980.

However, senior Indian officials are concerned about its recent decision and
have shared their concerns with the American vice-president. Joe Biden made a
four-day visit to India late last month and held talks with senior Indian
officials about Afghanistan, the region and India. It is reported that Pakistan
has so far received a container of American combat equipment that includes night
vision glasses, advanced guns, lasers for hitting targets at night from the air
and devices for defusing explosives. America has also given Pakistan launching
pads for advanced missiles and rockets.

It is completely unfair to give Pakistan's army the weapons stained with the
blood of Afghans because they will be further used to shed the blood of Afghans.
What is worrying is that Pakistan wants to occupy Afghanistan again after the
foreign military withdrawal just as the last time. This comes at a time when
America, the UK and Germany have closed their embassies in many countries amid
terrorist threats. But, the question is why do these countries not break the
backbone of terrorists trained in Pakistan and prevent Pakistan from supporting
terrorists?

Al-Qa'idah in Pakistan poses threats not only to Afghanistan and India, but to
the entire world. Its allies should no longer deceive people and should
seriously prevent Pakistan from training terrorists. Pakistan must realize that
such attacks cannot undermine the strong friendship and firm resolve of
Afghanistan and Pakistan, but will further deepen and strengthen their
relations.

Source: Hewad, Kabul, in Pashto 6 Aug 13 p 2

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            August 7, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Family in shock after gun attack;
terror

BYLINE: JULIA PAUL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 143 words


A FAMILY of three escaped injury after a shotgun attack on their home in the
early hours of yesterday.

Terence Halpin, 62, his 57-year-old wife and their 27-year-old son were all
asleep in their house in Tollnamona Court in West Belfast when the attack was
launched at 2am.

Shots were fired at their front door and travelled the length of the hallway.

Mr Halpin said: "Anybody in the hall or anybody near it would have been killed."

He added the family were "baffled" by the shooting but would not be forced to
move out of their home.

Rosie McCorley, the Sinn Fein MLA for the area, said: "We could have been
dealing with a tragedy.

"The community is very angry as nobody wants this.

"They don't want to be associated with people running around in the streets with
guns."

Police have appealed for anyone with information or any witnesses to the attack
to contact them.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BAFFLED J Terence Halpin

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2013 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            August 7, 2013 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Yemen in 'state of siege' over warning of al-Qa'ida attack;
Intercepted messages between terror leader and its cell in Arabian Peninsula
lead to evacuations

BYLINE: KIM SENGUPTA Defence Correspondent

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 774 words


American and British diplomatic staff have been withdrawn from Yemen amid
warnings of an imminent attack by al-Qa'ida fighters who have infiltrated the
country's capital - a city described last night as being in a "state of siege",
with armoured cars ringing potential targets.

A total of 21 US embassies across the Middle East and North Africa remain closed
because of the threat.

The "extraordinary and unprecedented" security measures were put in place in
Sanaa as the US carried out drone strikes at Marib, in the north-east, in which
up to six jihadists were claimed to have been killed. They included Salah
al-Jumati, who is said to have been one of the commanders of the intended
assault, and Saleh al-Tays al-Waeli, who was described as an experienced
operative.

The massive alert that led to Western diplomatic missions being shut down,
described by American officials as one of the most serious since 9/11, came in
intercepted electronic communications that give a glimpse into the changing
power structure and dynamics of al-Qa'ida, and revealed the growing prominence
of a man some have tipped to become the group's No 2.

The call to "do something big" came from Ayman al-Zawahiri to Nasser
al-Wuhayshi, the head of the network's branch in Yemen, which has become one of
the most active in plotting attacks against the West.

Zawahiri has led al-Qa'ida since US forces killed Osama bin Laden at his
compound in Pakistan in 2011. Wuhayshi, a relative unknown until recently, is
said to have been appointed "general manager" of al-Qa'ida, putting him in a
highly senior position. However, it remains unclear just how much power it gave
him in an organisation that has become increasingly decentralised, with
affiliates in different countries planning and carrying out their own attacks.

Al-Qa'ida has had several previous general managers, which is regarded as a
separate rank from that of the overall deputy of the organisation. Wuhayshi's
predecessors in the post have included Abu Faraj al-Libi, who was captured in
Pakistan in 2005, Mustafa Abu al-Yazid, who was killed in a US drone strike in
2010, and Abu Yahya al-Libi, who also died in a drone attack, in 2012.
Nevertheless, the fact that Zawahiri turned to Wuhayshi to carry out a
"spectacular" attack illustrates the reliance placed on him by the leadership in
Pakistan. Among other operations, al-Qa'ida in the Arabian Peninsula (Aqap) was
responsible for the attempt to blow up a transatlantic airliner in the
"underwear plot", and was implicated last month in plans to blow up another US
commercial jet.

Wuhayshi served as Bin Laden's private secretary in Afghanistan before fleeing
to Iran after the fall of the Taliban regime and the battle of Tora Bora in
2001. He was arrested and extradited to Yemen two years later but was among 23
inmates who broke out of a maximum-security prison in Sanaa in 2006.

He was soon participating in armed action along with several members of his
family. A brother, Abdel al-Wuhayshi, 22, was reportedly killed by Yemeni forces
last December. Gregory Johnson, an academic at Princeton University and the
author of a book on al-Qa'ida in Yemen, said: "Wuhayshi was groomed by Osama bin
Laden on a leadership role and he was able to use his connections to Bin Laden
to become head of Aqap."

Zawahiri confirmed his appointment in a video posted online. Wuhayshi has
appeared in a number of videos; in one of them he described the anti-piracy
operation off the Horn of Africa as part of a secret war against Islam.

THE NEW LEADERS

OSAMA BIN LADEN'S SUCCESSORS

Ayman al-Zawahiri

The founder of the Egyptian Islamic Jihad, which merged with al-Qa'ida in 1998,
is accused of involvement in the 1998 bombings of US embassies in Dar es Salaam,
Tanzania, and Nairobi, Kenya. He was also behind the 1997 attack in Luxor that
left 68 dead. Zawahiri became al-Qa'ida's leader in May 2011 after US forces
killed Osama bin Laden in Pakistan.

Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi

Al-Qa'ida's leader in Iraq was born in Samarra in 1971. The US State Department
defined him as a "specially designated global terrorist" in 2011 and offered a
$10m reward for his arrest. He is responsible for the 2011 attack on Umm al-Qura
mosque in Baghdad, killing 28 people, and was behind an attack in Hilla, Iraq,
that killed 24 police officers.

Nasser al-Wuhayshi

The leader of al-Qa'ida in Yemen comes from a wealthy Yemeni family and once
served as Osama bin Laden's secretary in Afghanistan. He was one of 23 prisoners
who tunnelled their way out of a maximum-security prison in Sana'a in 2006.
Yemeni military officials claimed to have killed him in August 2011, but this
was denied by al-Qa'ida.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2013 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                            August 7, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Couple's terror at night attack;
Drunken man 'thought wife was having affair'

BYLINE: SENTINEL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 479 words


DRUNKEN Krystian Makowski terrified a couple of pensioners after forcing his way
into their home in the middle of the night.

The 26-year-old believed he was returning to his own Bentilee flat when he
pressed the intercom system at the home of John and Patricia Ferns.

But when he saw 70-year-old Mr Ferns inside, Makowski suspected his wife was
having an affair and attacked him. He hit the terrified pensioner more than 20
times in the head. DRINK-KIDS IN READ thesenti Makowski, who had drunk a litre
of whisky, was yesterday jailed for 15 months at Stoke-on-Trent Crown Court.

Prosecutor Fiona Cortese said Mr Ferns awoke when he heard the intercom in the
early hours of February 17. He believed it was his grandson so he let him
through the main door.

The pensioner looked through the spy hole on his front door and saw someone
wearing a hooded top. Still believing it was his grandson he opened the door,
with the chain on. But he then realised it was not his grandson and tried to
stop the defendant pushing his way inside.

Miss Cortese said: "The defendant managed to get his arm around the door and he
forced his way in.

"He shouted at Mr Ferns, launched himself and hit him to his head," said Miss
Cortese.

Mr Ferns put up a struggle and pushed the defendant into the kitchen.

HAD HER CAR: STORY AT But he lost his balance and says the defendant hit him to
the top of his head more than 20 times.

el.co.uk Mr Ferns was able to get to his front door and shout for help.

His wife, aged 69, who has leukaemia, was woken by the commotion and she saw
Makowski break a shelving unit.

Mr Ferns was trembling and was visibly distressed when police arrived at the
address in Bentilee. Makowski was arrested in the communal area of the flats. He
had scratches on his face, a grazed knuckle and a bruised right hand.

In his police interview, Makowski remembered arriving at what he thought was his
own front door. He said the door was opened by an elderly man and he thought
there was something going on between him and his wife.

Makowski, of Calvary Crescent, Bentilee, pleaded guilty to causing actual bodily
harm.

The court was told Mr Ferns feared for his life during the incident.

His wife was also left extremely traumatised.

Anis Ali, mitigating, said Makowski, who is married with a child, came to
Britain from Poland three years ago. He has a job and no previous convictions.

Mr Ali said: "He was inebriated. His intention was to return home. He knocked on
the wrong door.

"He had concerns about the possible infidelity of his partner at the time."
Jailing Makowski, Judge Paul Glenn said: "This was a vulnerable victim and it
was a sustained assault. This was a terrifying incident. Your actions will have
a permanent effect on your victim and his wife, who I suspect will never feel
secure in their own home again."

What do you think of the sentence? Email us at letters@thesentinel.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SEN


                      Copyright 2013 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 7, 2013 Wednesday 8:43 PM GMT

Yemen 'foils al-Qaeda plot to take foreign workers hostage at oil terminal';
Yemen has claimed to have foiled a major plot to take foreign workers hostage at
an oil terminal in the wake of British and American warnings of a possible
terrorist attack in the country.

BYLINE: By Damien McElroy Foreign Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 429 words


Officials said on Wednesday its security forces had thwarted an al-Qaeda plan to
seize the al-Dhabah oil export terminal, where foreign nationals were working.

The terrorist group had also been planning to target the cities of Mukalla and
Bawzeer and to attack the Belhaf gas plant, Rageh Badi, a Yemeni government
spokesman said. The government said it had saturated the region with troops to
protect the facilities.

Officials said the attack was related to the Western security alerts that have
forced several countries to evacuate diplomatic staff from Yemen, as well as
close embassies around the world.

The alerts were sparked after the US government intercepted communications
between Ayman al-Zawahri, the al-Qaeda leader and Nasser al-Wahishi, its local
head in Yemen, about plans for a major attack.

An American drone strike on suspected al-Qaeda operatives killed seven in Yemen
on Wednesday as US forces continued their efforts to disrupt advanced planning
for any possible attack.

Two vehicles were incinerated in the drone strike in Shabwa province, leaving
the seven occupants dead. It was the fifth drone strike in ten days.

US officials said on Wednesday that the Yemeni plot was just one component of
al-Qaeda's efforts and told the Washington Post that the drone strikes were
"buying time" in the battle against the group.

While Yemeni officials have been angered by the scale of the US response to the
threat, the government spokesman said on Wednesday the threat had not gone away.

"Concerns remain high about other plots and plans by al-Qaeda," Mr Badi said.
"This pushed some Western countries to close down their embassies and evacuate
their diplomats."

Yemen's government has boosted security around government buildings and
embassies as the evacuations continue.

Security checkpoints have been set up and soldiers in armored vehicles are
patrolling the streets of Sanaa, the capital.

It suffered a set back when eight troops were killed, including a brigadier
general, when their helicopter was shot down over a pipeline.

The US government shut 22 embassies and consulates from West Africa to South
Asia and flew its personnel out of Yemen on Tuesday. Britain removed its
Yemen-based diplomatic team at the same time. Both countries advised their
nationals to leave.

The alert was focused on an imminent threat around the Eid festival that marks
the end of Ramadan tonight but has since been extended until the end of August.

"Its too early to tell whether we've actually disrupted anything," a senior US
official told the Washington Post newspaper.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 8, 2013 Thursday

Several 'terrorist' attacks target second largest Libyan city on Id al-Fitr

LENGTH: 255 words


Text of report by Libyan news agency WAL

Benghazi, 8 August 2013, WAL  Benghazi City was subjected on the first day of
the blessed Id al-Fitr, today, Thursday [8 August], to several terrorist acts
aimed at destabilising security and stability in the city. A shop on the Airport
Road was targeted with an explosive device which caused substantial damage to
the shop and to neighbouring buildings without registering any human losses.

Official Spokesman of the Joint Security Room in Benghazi Col Abdallah al-Zanidi
told the Libyan News Agency [WAL] that the room's security elements and
explosive experts had succeeded during the examination of the explosion site in
disabling another prepared bomb weighing about 12 kg.

Al-Zanidi added that members of Al-Sa'iqah [special] forces also succeeded today
within the framework of the continued work to establish security and stability
in the city in arresting three criminals from among the escapees of Al-Kuwayfah
Prison and foiling an attempt to storm the national security centre in
Al-Fuwayhat area by a group of outlaws to smuggle elements detained at the
centre. Moreover, the body of an unknown person was also found in the public
park in Al-Dular district.

The spokesman pointed out that the investigations were continuing to identify
and arrest the outlaws who committed these crimes and called on the inhabitants
to cooperate [with the security room] and report any information which could
help arrest those criminals.

Source: WAL news agency, Tripoli, in Arabic 2023 gmt 8 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Shields Gazette

                            August 8, 2013 Thursday

Knife raider gets 11 years for shop terror attacks

LENGTH: 500  words


An armed robber who lunged at two shop assistants with a kitchen knife in
separate attacks has been locked up for 11 years.

Ricky Ceolin, 26, admitted stealing cigarettes, vodka and beer from two corner
shops on the same day in the terrifying raids.

He also pleaded guilty to perverting the course of justice after trying to
concoct a false alibi with an old school friend while behind bars.

Just after midday on January 30, Ceolin walked into Alan's Corner store on Black
Road in Hebburn while drunk and wearing a hoodie, and asked for 20 cigarettes
and a bottle of Glen's Vodka.

After Urai Reed put them on the counter he took out a 10-12 inch kitchen knife
and lunged towards her before running out of the shop with his items, worth
£17.19.

Prosecuting, Neil Pallister said that the victim had genuinely feared for her
life and thought to herself, this is the day I'm going to die'.

Ceolin, who has previous convictions for robbery, then went back to Hebburn to
Auckland Discount, in Oakland Road, later that day.

He again asked for cigarettes and alcohol before brandishing a knife and lunging
at Samar Iqbal.

He missed, but instead of fleeing, this time he forced his way through a
security door and behind the counter where he was beaten back by the shopkeeper
using a stick.

Ceolin then took a swing at Mr Iqbal's head with an empty vodka bottle before
being chased from the property.

He was arrested some time later.

Andrew Walker, defending, said: "He is a young man and there is a real risk that
a particularly long sentence may lead to him becoming institutionalised, or
further institutionalised.

"He has spent very few weeks since his 16th birthday in the community."

Ceolin, of Kirkston Avenue, Jarrow, initially denied the charges, instead using
phone calls with a friend to concoct the false alibi that they were both at the
gym at the time. They discussed dates and times they were going to use, and even
discussed forging gym documents to back up the lie.

Ceolin eventually pleaded guilty to the robberies at court, meaning the alibi
wasn't used, but was discovered by a suspicious police officer who listened back
over the recorded conversations.

Ceolin and his accomplice both pleaded guilty to perverting the course of
justice.

Sentencing him, Judge Christopher Prince said: "During the second robbery you
produced a sharp object.

"If it was a kitchen knife, then it was a considerable knife. From the CCTV it
had the appearance of a bayonet or small sword.

"It is a matter of surprise that no injury was caused during this incident.

"Your behaviour was extremely dangerous."

Ceolin was sentenced to 11 years imprisonment for both of the robberies, and 12
months each for two counts of possessing a bladed article, to run concurrently.

He was given another 12 month sentence for perverting the course of justice,
also to run concurrently, and had a licence order extended by four years.

After yesterday's sentence, Mr Iqbal said: "I'm happy that it is over and I can
move on."

Twitter: @shieldsgazette

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NPGZ


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            August 8, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

DRONE KILLS AL-QAEDA EMBASSY ATTACK BOSS;
Missile wipes out terror 4

BYLINE: SIMON HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 150 words


A TOP al-Qaeda terrorist wanted over threatened attacks on Western embassies has
been killed in a missile strike.

Fanatic Saleh al-Tays al-Waeli was wiped out with three other terrorists when
their convoy in Yemen was hit by rockets fired from a US drone.

Witnesses said his vehicle was turned "into a ball of fire". It is thought the
terrorists were heading into the Middle Eastern country's capital Sana'a ahead
of a planned attack.

Intercepted terrorist chatter this week forced Britain and the US to close its
embassies and evacuate staff as envoys feared they were to be targeted by
suicide bombers and car bombs. US sources also revealed terrorists planned to
blow up gas pipe lines and take over two ports.

Al-Waeli, 28, was born in Saada in Yemen. He was believed to be an al-Qaeda cell
leader and among 25 terrorists accused by the Yemeni government of involvement
in the plot.

s.hughes@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cell leader ... al-Waeli

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2013 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                             August 9, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TERROR ATTACK ON HERO DAD

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 79 words


A FATHER's attempts to defend his home saw him slashed in the face and attacked
as he lay on the ground.

Family man Paul Field turned have-a-go-hero when yobs threw a bottle at his home
for no reason.

But when the father-of-three challenged the two lads they turned on him,
slashing at his face and punching him repeatedly before throwing a bottle at him
as he lay on the ground.

Teenage attackers Fise Ames and Liam Devine both have dozens of previous
convictions to their name.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2013 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Shields Gazette

                             August 9, 2013 Friday

Teen thugs' terror attack on dad defending family

BYLINE: Emma Pearson And Paul Clifford

LENGTH: 548  words


TWO knife-wielding teens have been locked up for launching a terrifying attack
on a brave dad as he tried to defend his family outside their home.

Paul Field was pelted with bricks, wooden planks and a glass bottle and had a
knife swung at his face by Liam Devine, 19, and Fise Ames, 16.

He was also punched in the back of the head by Devine after he dared to confront
the pair as they terrorised his partner and three-year-old daughter with their
loutish behaviour in the middle of the afternoon.

Mr Field's partner, Josie Dixon, was at the couple's home in Marshall Wallis
Road, South Shields, with their young daughter, a female friend and her friend's
two-year-old child when Devine and Ames started causing trouble.

Newcastle Crown Court heard how the pair smashed a bottle of brown ale off Miss
Dixon's window and made a commotion outside the house at around 3pm on Sunday,
March 29.

When Mr Field arrived home 15 minutes later with a friend, Dale Norris, they
found Devine and Ames, both drunk, in the back lane behind the property.

An argument ensued, and it quickly became violent.

Devine pulled out a knife, measuring between six and 11 inches, and handed it to
Ames, who began swinging it at Mr Field's face.

Bridie Smurthwaite, prosecuting, said: "Fise Ames swung the knife at Mr Field's
face several times, but because of a metal fence, he could not get close enough.

"At one point, he dropped the knife before he picked it back up and said I'll
stab anyone, me. I'll stab this car'.

"He then damaged the bonnet of Mr Field's car by scratching it with the knife.

"When Fise Ames scratched Mr Field's car, Mr Field ran after him. He ran past
Liam Devine, then fell on the ground.

"Liam Devine then punched him to the back of the head before running off.

"Mr Norris also saw Liam Devine throw a brick and a brown ale bottle before
running off.

"His head was tender and slightly swollen as a result of Liam Devine's actions."

The court also heard that Mr Field had broken planks of wood thrown at him
before the pair joined a larger group and left the scene.

Damage worth £425 was done to the car.

Lewis Kerr, defending Devine, said: "The defendant was effectively aimlessly
wandering the streets.

"He was with others. They were drinking and smashed the bottle.

"When they were quite properly confronted, it spiralled out of control."

Vic Laffey, defending Ames, said: "We have a 16-year-old who appears to have
taken to mixing with people who are older than him and are negative influences."

The court heard that Ames, of Stoddart Street, South Shields, had 28 previous
convictions for 36 crimes including public order and drugs offences and assault.

Devine, of Bramham Court, South Shields, had 18 previous convictions for 25
offences including a custodial sentence for an assault in 2010.

Both pleaded guilty to affray and having a bladed article.

Devine was jailed for 20 months, and Ames was sent to a young offenders'
institution for a year.

Sentencing the pair, Judge Simon Hickey told them: "People using knives in this
way are just inches away from maiming or killing people.

"A bottle was thrown by you, Devine, as Mr Field was trying to run off, and
later, bricks and bits of wood were thrown at him."

The judge said that he had to jail the pair to protect the public.

Twitter: @shieldsgazette

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NPGZ


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 9, 2013 Friday 4:50 PM GMT

Pakistan: US withdraws diplomats from Lahore due to 'terror threat';
The US has evacuated its consulate in Pakistan's second largest city of Lahore
and reissued its warning to Americans not to travel to the country amid a string
of terrorist attacks and threats.

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly and agencies

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 408 words


It the latest example of the danger facing diplomats operating in volatile parts
of the Muslim world and comes at a time when Pakistan is suffering a terrorist
attack almost every day.

It also followed an al-Qaeda threat to US diplomatic posts in the Middle East
and North Africa that American officials said was unrelated to the threat in
Pakistan.

US consulates suffered attacks in different parts of Pakistan in the past, and
Washington is still scarred by the memory of the attack last year on a
diplomatic post in Benghazi, Libya, that killed Ambassador Chris Stevens and
three other Americans.

Non-essential staff from the eastern Pakistani city of Lahore were being moved
to the capital, Islamabad, after a specific threat to the consulate there, said
Meghan Gregonis, embassy spokeswoman. Emergency personnel will stay in Lahore,
she said, and the consulate will remain closed indefinitely.

"We received information regarding a threat to the consulate," she told AP. "As
a precautionary measure, we are undertaking a drawdown of all except emergency
personnel."

She did not provide any details on the nature of the threat.

The Pakistani Taliban carried out a car bomb and grenade attack against the
American consulate in the northwest Pakistani city of Peshawar in 2010 that
killed four Pakistanis. The consulate in the southern city of Karachi has also
been attacked several times.

Other American officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the closure
was not related to the wider alert issued after communications were intercepted
from al-Qaeda's top leader, Ayman al-Zawahiri, discussing plans for a major
terror attack .

Earlier this week, 19 US diplomatic outposts in 16 countries in the Middle East
and Africa were closed to the public from Saturday.

Meanwhile, the Pakistani capital Islamabad has been on high alert because of
intelligence received by the Pakistani government that militants were planning
attacks on targets in the city, including the airport and parliament.

In Quetta, gunmen shot dead nine worshippers as they left Friday morning prayers
for Eid, which marks the end of the holy month of Ramadan.

A day earlier, a suicide bomber struck a police funeral in the city, killing 38
people in an attack claimed by the Taliban.

Violence has continued unabated in the country since its new government took
office in June. There have been 55 attacks in the country in the past 60 days,
its most intense blitz in several years.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Sheffield Telegraph

                            August 10, 2013 Saturday

Sheffield woman's sex attack terror

LENGTH: 519  words


Women are being warned to take extra care after a terrifying sex attack in
Sheffield - by a thug who police say could strike again.

The man pounced from behind on a 50-year-old lone woman walking along a footpath
in Shiregreen in the early hours of yesterday.

Today Inspector Simon Leake said women should vary their routes home, and park
in well-lit public areas, while the hunt for the sex offender goes on.

"Detectives are working tremendously hard to identify this offender at the
earliest opportunity, to bring him to justice and to stop him from possibly
doing this again," said Insp Leake.

"This is a rare offence, a serious sexual offence, which we are really concerned
about.

"The advice we would issue - especially to women late at night - is to look for
opportunities to reduce the chances of this happening again, by varying routes
home and parking in well-lit public areas."

The woman was targeted as she walked across grassland past trees at the junction
of Hatfield House Road and Bellhouse Road.

The attack had been terrifying for the victim said Insp Leake, who works with
the North East Sheffield Safer Neighbourhood Team.

"This was obviously extremely distressing and traumatising for her," he said.
"We have specialist officers to work with and support the victim through this.

"We cordoned off the scene straight away to maximise the opportunity to secure
forensic evidence left there.

"We have also increased police visibility in the area by redeploying police
officers and PCSOs."

The culprit was white, aged 18 to 22, and around 5ft 6ins tall.

He spoke with a local accent and was wearing a black hooded top and black
bottoms.

Officers have carried out house-to-house inquiries, and police patrols have been
stepped up to reassure local residents.

Lisa Ward, who owns The Cutting Lounge hairdressers and beauty salon on Hatfield
House Road, said: "I came to work past the crime scene and saw all the police
and I knew it must have been serious.

"To hear what has happened makes you feel unsafe - we work late one night a week
so it makes you worry.

"It happened close to Concord Park, where children like my daughter go, so it is
terrifying somebody like this is prowling around where children play."

Sarah Simmonite, 24, of Bellhouse Road, said: "I walked home from Holly House
Social Club at midnight on the night it happened.

"I didn't see anything that night but I woke up the next day to see all the
police tape.

"It is shocking this happened on such a busy road with houses all around.
There's a park nearby too where kids play."

Mum-of-one Claire Goodsman, 28, said: "With all the police activity people have
been really worried.

"I don't go out at night on my own anyway, but this would make me think twice if
I did."

Barbara Kirk, 71, added: "It is terrible. Around 18 months ago at the exact same
junction a woman pulled up at the lights in her car and was dragged out by a
man.

"It is worrying that who did this is still out there - I hope the police catch
him."

n Anyone with information about the attack should call police on 101 quoting
incident 39 of August 9, or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NSTE


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 10, 2013 Saturday 8:45 AM GMT

US embassies to open again after terror alert;
Eighteen of the 19 U.S. embassies closed this month due to worries about
potential terrorist attacks will reopen on Sunday, the US State Department has
confirmed..

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 201 words


"Our embassy in Sanaa, Yemen, will remain closed because of ongoing concerns
about a threat stream indicating the potential for terrorist attacks emanating
from al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula," State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki
said.

The United States will also keep its consulate in Lahore, Pakistan, shuttered,
Psaki said, adding it closed on Thursday due to a "separate credible threat."

On Aug. 2, the U.S. shut the 19 embassies in the Middle East, saying it had
picked up information through surveillance and other means about unspecified
terrorist threats.

A worldwide alert said that al Qaeda could be planning attacks in the Middle
East and North Africa.

Meanwhile, the U.S. government this week warned its citizens to avoid travelling
to Pakistan, while some American diplomats from Yemen were evacuated and U.S.
nationals were told to leave the country immediately.

President Barack Obama, during a White House press conference, declined to
comment on reports of drone strikes in Pakistan that targeted militants in that
country.

The State Department did not indicate when its facilities in Sanaa and Lahore
might reopen, saying it will continue to evaluate the "threats."

Edited by Steve Wilson

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     August 10, 2013 Saturday 12:19 AM GMT

Fears of hidden al-Qaeda threat as risk of terror attack spreads

BYLINE: Catherine Philp, Middle East Correspondent

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 789 words


The escalation in terrorist threats from Yemen to Pakistan has fuelled concerns
that al-Qaeda, far from being a spent force, may be undergoing a dangerous
evolution as the balance of operational power in the organisation shifts to the
Arabian peninsula.

The United States consulate in the Pakistani city of Lahore became the latest
target yesterday in a string of terrorist threats that have triggered an
unprecedented shutdown of Western embassies and consulates across the Muslim
world. Officials said that the consulate was evacuated in response to specific
threats and not the broader alert about a possible al-Qaeda plot that triggered
the closure of embassies from Kigali to Kuwait last week.

The scale of the shutdown and the multiplicity of terrorist threats suggest that
al-Qaeda could emerge as more lethal than ever.

Initial reports suggested that the embassies were closed after US intelligence
agencies intercepted a message from al-Qaeda's supreme leader, Ayman
al-Zawahiri, to its Yemeni affiliate, al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP),
ordering it to execute an attack.

However, US Administration officials later corrected the report, saying that
al-Zawahiri had merely given his blessing to a plan drawn up by the AQAP leader,
Nasser al-Wuhayshi - a version consistent with the claim that Osama bin Laden's
death all but ended al-Qaeda's ability to plan and export attacks from Pakistan.
Administration officials also revealed that in the same intercept, al-Zawahiri
announced that he was appointing al-Wuhayshi as al-Qaeda's chief of operations,
effectively outsourcing the business of terrorism plots to the Yemeni affiliate.

Those revelations may serve the White House's narrative that alQaeda's
Pakistani-based leadership is all but paralysed but they will do nothing to
dispel fears about the growing threat from Yemen and the intimacy of relations,
previously unclear, between the network's different affiliates. Saudi Arabia
announced yesterday that it had arrested two AQAP operatives, one Yemeni and one
Chadian, who the authorities believe entered the country as part of
al-Wuhayshi's larger plot.

The Interior Ministry said that intelligence agencies had intercepted social
media communications indicating plans for a suicide attack against a Western
target in Saudi Arabia, and arrested the men as they crossed the border from
Yemen.

Yemen said on Wednesday that it had foiled an al-Qaeda plot to attack two
Western-owned oil and gas export terminals in the Gulf of Aden.

Washington said late last night that 18 of the embassies and consulates closed
for a week would reopen tomorrow, with the exception of the one in Yemen.

CIA drones launched a fresh wave of attacks yesterday against AQAP militants in
Yemen's remote eastern province of Hadramout, the ancestral homeland of bin
Laden. AQAP had begun shifting into the area in recent months after a US-backed
Yemeni offensive flushed them from their stronghold in the southern province of
Abyan.

At least 34 militants have been killed in the past two weeks, a sharp increase
from recent months when the US eased off its strikes at the request of the
Yemeni Government, which warned that civilian casualties were fostering
anti-American feeling. At least seven suspected militants from Saudi Arabia were
among those killed.

Yemen is not the only al-Qaeda hotbed the US has to worry about. This week the
CIA's deputy director warned that Syria could quickly supplant Yemen as an
al-Qaeda haven if jihadist groups fighting alongside anti-Assad rebels gained
the upper hand. Two Sunni extremist groups affiliated with al-Qaeda - the
al-Nusra front and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant - have taken up arms
alongside the rebels in the battle to overthrow President Assad's Alawite
regime. Both are said to be in contact with al-Zawahiri in Pakistan.

Security analysts say that jihadi recruits are streaming into Syria in even
greater numbers than went into Iraq at the height of the Sunni insurgency, and
their participation has been crucial to rebel successes. Western security
officials fear that as Syria splinters into zones of government and rebel
control, jihadist groups will seize the opportunity to establish their own
havens.

The Pakistani al-Qaeda expert Ahmed Rashid noted an emerging strategy common to
all the affiliates traceable to Yemen. AQAP was founded by al-Wuhayshi after
fellow militants helped to break him out of jail in 2006, the same tactic by
which al-Qaeda's Iraqi branch returned more than 200 senior militants to the
battlefield last month. Franchises in Pakistan, Afghanistan and Uzbekistan have
formed special units for jailbreaks.

"Released prisoners will help to revive al-Qaeda in many parts of the world," Mr
Rashid warned.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2013 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 11, 2013 Sunday

Nine "martyred" in "terrorist attacks" across Syria - State media

LENGTH: 393 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Nine martyred in terrorist attacks in Aleppo, Hama and Damascus countryside" -
SANA Headline]

Provinces, 10 August (SANA)  - Two citizens were martyred and a woman and a
child were injured in a blast of an explosive device planted by terrorists in
al-Sfeira area in the eastern countryside of Aleppo.

Four citizens martyred in car bomb blast in Hama countryside

Meanwhile, a suicide bomber driving a car packed with explosives blew himself up
on al-Naqour-al-Bahseh road in the countryside of Hama, killing four citizens
and injuring others.

SANA reporter quoted an official source as saying that the car bomb exploded
near al-Thawra farm on al-Naqour-al-Bahseh road, causing the martyrdom of four
citizens and the injury of others, in addition to material damage in the site.

Three injured by terrorists' mortars in Damascus

Three citizens were injured by a mortar shell fired by terrorists on Souq al-Hal
in al-Zablatani area in Damascus, with a police source informing SANA that the
three victims were rushed to the hospital, one of them sustaining serious
wounds, and that the attack caused material damage to a shop in the Souq.

Terrorists also fired two mortar shells that fell behind al-Thaqafi Mosque in
Bab Touma area, causing only material damage to the fence of a house and no
injuries.

Three citizens martyred in mortar shells in Damascus countryside

Three citizens were martyred and others were injured as mortar shells fired by
terrorists fell on al-Dukhanieh neighbourhood in Damascus countryside.

A source at the Police Command told SANA reporter that three mortar shells fell
a school in al-Dukhanieh neighbourhood, causing the martyrdom of three citizens
and inuring others, in addition to material damage to the cars parked nearby.

Citizens injured in explosive device blast in Midhat Basha Souq in Damascus

Several citizens were injured in a terrorist explosive device blast in Midhat
Basha Souq in Damascus countryside.

A source at the Police Command told SANA reporter that the explosive device was
planted by terrorists in a private car parked near al-Shahim minaret, causing
the injury of 18 citizens.

The source added that the terrorist attack also caused material damage to the
shops and cars nearby.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0000 gmt 10 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 12, 2013 Monday

Turkey concerned over terror attacks In Iraq, urges parties to work for peace

LENGTH: 232 words


Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also
known as Anatolia)

[Unattributed report: "Turkey concerned over rising terrorism in Iraq - Foreign
Ministry called on Iraqi authorities to step up efforts for peace in society"]

ANKARA (AA) - Turkey has said it is concerned over increasing terrorist attacks
in neighbouring Iraq.

A statement issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Sunday [11 August] said
Turkey was "deeply saddened" by the attacks, which took place in several cities
in the space of a few days and resulted in at least 65 deaths and over 200
injuries.

That the attacks in capital Baghdad, Nasiriyah, Karbala, Kirkuk and the town of
Tuz Khormato continued on the Islamic religious holiday of Eid al-Fitr showed
that "the terrorists who target the peace and prosperity of this nation are
devoid of humanity and ethical values," the statement said.

"We are concerned over the recent increase in terrorist attacks in the country
[Iraq] and call on all active parties, particularly the central government, to
work towards establishing peace in society.

"Our county, that sees Iraq's peace as its own, is ready to provide the
necessary cooperation and support in fight against terrorism, in a spirit of
solidarity with our brothers in Iraq today as in yesterday."

Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency, Ankara, in English 0737
gmt 12 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 12, 2013 Monday

Man detained for false terror attack warning in Russia's Ingushetia

LENGTH: 143 words


Police in Russia's southern Republic of Ingushetia have detained a 46-year-old
man on charges of making a false report that a terrorist attack was being
planned against the leader of Ingushetia, Kavkazskiy Uzel website reported on 12
August.

According to the Ingush Interior Ministry, police were notified late on 11
August that a terrorist attack on Ingush leader Yunus-Bek Yevkurov was being
planned in Nazran, but the warning turned out to be fake, the website said.

A 46 year-old resident of neighbouring North Ossetia's Novyy Prigorodniy
District was detained by members of Ingushetia's anti-extremism centre for
making the false report.

The detained man confessed to making the hoax call, and told police that he had
done so while under the influence of alcohol, the website said, citing Interfax.

Source: Kavkaz-uzel.ru website, Moscow, in Russian 12 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 13, 2013 Tuesday

Syrian army repels "terrorist" attacks, kills gunmen

LENGTH: 1381 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Terrorist attacks repelled, gunmen killed in several provinces" - SANA
Headline]

Provinces, 12 Aug (SANA) - A unit of the Syrian Arab Army confronted last night
an armed terrorist group's attempt to attack al-Kafat military checkpoint in
al-Salamieh district in Hama countryside and inflicted major losses on the
terrorists.

An official source told SANA reporter that scores of terrorists, including
foreigners from Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Sudan, were killed.

Meanwhile, the army restored security and stability to the town of al-Mufakker
in Hama countryside.

Citizens wounded of mortar shells fired by terrorists in Dayr al-Zawr

A woman and a child were injured by a mortar shell fired by terrorists on
al-Mouazafein neighbourhood in Deir Ezzor [Dayr al-Zawr] city.

An official source told SANA that a mortar shell fell near al-Mouazafein bakery,
causing the injury of a woman and a child with dangerous wounds.

The source added that the terrorists fired two shells on al-Fateh Mosque in
al-Qsour neighbourhood, the first one fell on the mosque's yard, while the
second fell in front its main gate, causing the injury of several citizens

Army units eliminate terrorists, seize weapons and ammunition in Damascus
countryside

A unit of the Syrian Arab Army seized a terrorist den with large amounts of
weapons and ammunition in Darayya.

An official source told SANA reporter that the weapons seized included PKC
machineguns, machine rifles, advanced communications devices, RPG launchers,
explosive devices and amounts of ammunition.

The source added that several terrorists were killed and others were injured
during the army's operations.

Army units continued operations against terrorists in Barzeh area, in addition
to carrying out special oepraitons against terrorists in al-Qaboun which
resulted in the death of a number of terrorists.

A terrorist group was eliminated near the gas refilling station in Adra, with
one of its member being identified as Hussam Tahhan, and a sniper was also
eliminated in the same area.

An Army unit clashed with terrorist groups near al-Manasher roundabout in Jobar,
resulting in the death of several terrorists including Mohammad Kamel.

In the farms surrounding the town of al-Mleiha, an army unit pursued a terrorist
group and killed most of its members, including Mohammad Shaqra, while another
unit carried out a special operation targeting a terrorist hideouts in the town
of al-Sbaineh, eliminating all those inside it including Abdelraouf al-Qtaish.

Terrorist hideouts and gatherings were destroyed and terrorists were eliminated
in the farms of al-Shifouniye and the town of Erbin. One of the dead terrorists
was identified as Yassin al-Ghosh.

An army unit repelled a terrorist group which attempted to attack an army
checkpoint in the town of al-Husseiniye, leaving the assailants dead or injured.

Army eliminates terrorists, destroys weaponry in Aleppo and its countryside

The army destroyed mortar and rocket launchers' platforms and in several areas
in Aleppo and its countryside and eliminated scores of terrorists who tried to
infiltrate safe neighbourhoods in Aleppo.

An official source told SANA that several terrorists' gatherings were destroyed
by the army in the areas of Kweris and Ein al-Jamajemah, adding that large
amounts of weapons and ammunition were seized in Aleppo eastern countryside.

An army unit foiled the attempt of terrorists to infiltrate al-Kindi Hospital
area and killed and injured all of the assailants.

Another army unit destroyed 7 vehicles loaded with weapons and munitions on
al-Salamyeh highway and in al-Bab city in Aleppo north eastern countryside.

The army also targeted terrorists' hideouts and gatherings in the areas of
Mayer, Hreitan, al-lairamon and Indan.

The army clashed with terrorists who were committing murder and looting acts on
al-Lairamon-Kifr Hamra road and eliminated the members of a terrorists group
that tried to infiltrate the area of Dahret Abd Rabbo.

In Aleppo city, the army killed and injured scores of terrorists who tried to
infiltrate the neighbourhoods of al-Sheikh Maqsoud, Bustan al-Basha and the old
city.

Meanwhile, three citizens were martyred and two others were wounded after the
terrorists targeted with mortar shells the residential areas of al-Asharfyeh and
al-Maydan.

Army units repel terrorist attacks in Homs and its countryside

In Homs city, an Army unit carried out an operation targeting terrorist
gatherings near al-Masuudiye School, Abdullah Bin Masuud Mosque, and al-Zahabi
Street in Bab Houd neighbourhood, resulting in the elimination of a number of
terrorists and the injuring of others.

An army unit repelled a terrorist group which attempted to attack a military
site in Aqrab village in al-Houleh area in Homs countryside.

Terrorist hideouts were destroyed in the towns of Teldo and Kisin, while another
unit destroyed a hideout in Ein Hussein village which terrorists had been using
to fire shells at am-Mashrafeh village, eliminating all the terrorists inside
it.

Heavy losses were inflicted upon terrorist groups in the village of Deir Fuul in
al-Rastan countryside, leaving most of their members dead.

Army inflicts heavy losses on terrorists in Hasaka countryside

Units of the Syrian Arab Army carried out a series of operations against the
armed terrorist groups in several areas in Hasaka western countryside.

An official source told SANA reporter that the operations resulted in killing
several terrorists and inuring many others, in addition to destroying their
weapons and ammunition.

Army units eliminate terrorists in Idleb

The army units eliminated a number of terrorists, some of them belong to Jabhat
al-Nusra, in several villages and towns in Idleb countryside and destroyed their
dens and concentrations.

A military source told SANA reporter that scores of terrorists were killed and
others were injured in Binnish, Maarat Masrin, Saraqib, Jabal al-Arbaeen, Martin
and Maarat al-Nourman towns.

The source added that a unit of the army eliminated terrorist dens belonging to
so-called "al-Tawhid Brigade" in Abu al-Duhur district.

Non-Syrian terrorists killed in Deir Ezzor

The Armed Forces targeted terrorists in several areas in Deir Ezzor countryside
and killed scores of them, many of them of non-Syrian nationalities.

An official source told SANA reporter that the army killed and injured scores of
terrorists in al-Huwiqa neighbourhood, among them were Mahmoud Ali al-Hassan,
Fadel Muslim Hamada, Fayez Saleh al-Salem, Adel Ali al-Hamd al-Jader and Akram
al-Salem.

An army unit targeted terrorists' gathering in the area of Hwija Saker and
destroyed the weapons and ammunition in it.

The army targeted terrorists' gathering in the area of "7 kilometre", destroying
heavy machineguns and killing scores of terrorists, among them was a Yemeni
terrorists known as "al-Basheq".

The army also destroyed a terrorists' hideout in al-Shihel town.

An army unit destroyed a rocket launcher in al-Ardi neighbourhood and killed the
terrorists in the site. Another unit eliminated terrorists in Cinema Fuad Street
and destroyed a mortar launcher and ammunition in the area.

Another unit clashed with a terrorist group in al-Sina'a neighbourhood, killing
all the group's members including Qais al-Darwish.

Terrorist killed in explosion while rigging car with explosives in Deir Ezzor

A number of terrorists were killed when a car exploded while they were rigging
it with explosives in a hideout near the Justice Palace in Deir Ezzor city.

The explosion resulted in the destruction of the hideout along with the weapons
and equipment in it.

Army units kill terrorists and destroy their weapons in Hama countryside

Units of the armed forces destroyed a terrorists' warehouse in Atshan village in
al-Hamra area in the eastern countryside of Hama.

An official source told SANA that the army units destroyed a terrorists' den
along with the weapons and ammunition inside it.

The source added that other army units repelled armed terrorist groups' attack
on two military checkpoints, the first one on Mourik bridge in the northern
countryside of Hama, while the second one in al-Ta'aona in Mouseiaf countryside,
killing and injuring scores of terrorists.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0000 gmt 12 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 13, 2013 Tuesday

Protest march held in Algerian town against "savage terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 567 words


Excerpt of report entitled: "Impressive march against terrorism: repeated
attacks in Azeffoun" published by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan
website on 12 August

The march organised yesterday [11 August] by the civil society against terrorism
in the town of Azeffoun, 60 km north-east of Tizi Ouzou, drew thousands of
people coming mainly from villages located in the four communes of the
municipality (Azeffoun, Ait Chaffaa, Akerou and Aghribs). This action was taken
in the wake of the terrorist attack that cost the lives of three policemen in
this locality.

The procession set off at 1000, outside the mayor's office, but citizens kept
joining the crowd as the march moved forward peacefully. Marchers stopped
outside the home of one of the victims to observe a minute of silence. A young
civil servant from Azeffoun told us: "It is here that Ramdane lived, a very
popular man held in high esteem by all the citizens of the region; I always have
in mind the image of him going out, in the evening with his two daughters, in
the district. This is really very sad".

[Passage omitted: on same vein]

Demonstrators carried placards saying, among other things: "Stop terrorism" and
"Yes to citizen vigilance". At the forefront of the crowd we noticed marchers
holding high pictures of the victims of the terrorist attacks of last Tuesday [6
August]. The march stopped outside the main gate of the municipality where
citizens spoke in turn to denounce terrorism and condemn the attacks targeting
their villages.

[Passage omitted: details]

In this context, a declaration by the citizens of Azeffoun was read out, a part
of which says "This time of meditation should be also a moment of great
vigilance towards the policy of the authorities that has turned demobilisation
into a sort of compromise." The declaration pointed out that yesterday's
impressive march against terrorism "carried a message of honour and dignity". It
is also, according to the same document, the citizens' voice that draws the
attention of the authorities. The same text recalls that "this region, which was
the cradle of citizen resistance at the worst moments of the fundamentalist
savagery, cannot resign itself to silence in front of such barbarism."

[Passage omitted: details]

In this respect, Said Lakhdari, a deputy, told us: "Citizens must remain
vigilant in order to abort the Machiavellian plans of the terrorists."

After speaking in turn, marchers dispersed calmly. The general strike planned to
take place concurrently with the march was largely observed; in fact all
shopkeepers closed their shops as a sign of support for the march. Even public
institutions were paralysed all yesterday morning. The organisers of the march
have successfully carried out their action to say: "No to fundamentalism, no to
impunity and yes to citizen vigilance."

Five people injured in the explosion of a bomb in Baghlia (Boumerdes)

Four gendarmes and a 23-year-old woman were injured in the explosion of a
home-made bomb yesterday [11 Aug], at about 13:30, at the Baghlia town exit, 50
km to the east of Boumerdes.

[Passage omitted: details]

It should be recalled that several similar acts were perpetrated on the same
road axis, the latest of which took place in March 2012 injuring five gendarmes.
The latter were targeted by armed groups while escorting a prisoners' transport
van.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 12 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 14, 2013 Wednesday

Six get long jail terms for plotting terror attacks in Kazakh capital

LENGTH: 251 words


Text of report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Astana, 14 August: Six members of the group, who were found guilty of preparing
a series of bombings in Astana, as well as of attempting on lives of the first
persons of the country, today were sentenced to various jail terms - ranging
from five to 10 years in prison, the Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency's
correspondent reports from the courtroom.

As reported, the group leader, Serik Koshalakov, was sentenced to 10 years in
prison.

Moreover, defendant Ali Sharipov was sentenced to 10 years in prison, Batyrlan
Abdikerov - five and a half years, Yerzhan Kadirsizov - nine years, Agzam
Kaskabayev - six years and Syrymbet Zhunusov - six years, the chairman of the
specialized inter-district criminal court of Astana, Meyram Zhanguttinov,
announced the sentences.

The main trial in the case began in mid-May and was held behind closed doors.

According to investigators, members of the criminal group had planned to create
an Islamic caliphate in Kazakhstan, by committing a series of terrorist attacks,
as well as organizing attacks on law enforcement officers.

In particular, the group was plotting to kill senior Kazakh officials at a
ceremony to open a new theatre of opera and ballet in Astana and wanted to blow
up the Palace of Peace and Harmony, to attack the building of the city
department of National Security Committee with the purpose of killing officers.

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 0924 gmt 14 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      August 15, 2013 Thursday 3:07 PM GMT

Terror attack simulation in city

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 301 words


Emergency services are responding to a simulated terrorist attack in a city
centre as part of a major European exercise.

A chemical was released inside Birmingham's International Convention Centre
where 150 volunteers were at a conference as part of a research project looking
at public responses to extreme events.

The group had been told beforehand that they would be taking part in an
emergency services exercise but not given exact details.

Around a third were told ahead of time what would happen and given roles to play
- some as a terrorist, some exhibiting symptoms of nerve agent, for example.

Researchers from King's College London will look at and analyse the reaction of
those inside the venue to help identify practices and procedures that can make
emergency response more effective.

Co-ordinated by West Midlands Police in conjunction with CBRNE Ltd, the exercise
is also an opportunity for blue-light services and the local authority to
evaluate emergency procedures in the West Midlands.

The choice of scenario and location does not imply that such an event is either
likely or imminent, but will allow those involved to gain valuable information
on people's responses and requirements, which in turn will help develop
emergency procedures.

It is the first of three exercises across Europe over the next two years as part
of an EU-funded initiative to improve the preparedness and resilience of member
states to a terrorist attack.

The other exercises will be in Sweden next year and Poland in 2015.

Chief Superintendent Chris McKeogh said: "This exercise provides a great
opportunity for all of those involved to look at procedures in place for an
emergency such as this and put them into action. This way, we can evaluate more
effectively where we need to further develop our plans and procedures."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            August 15, 2013 Thursday

City holds terror attack dry-run

SECTION: BRITAIN

LENGTH: 234 words


A chemical was released inside Birmingham's International Convention Centre
where 150 volunteers were at a conference as part of a research project
evaluating public responses to extreme events. The group was told beforehand
that they would be taking part in an emergency services exercise but not given
exact details. Around a third were told in advance what would happen and given
roles to play - some as "terrorists," some exhibiting symptoms of nerve agent,
as well as other roles. Local emergency services were involved in the "incident"
and researchers from King's College in London will analyse the reaction of those
inside the venue to help identify practices and procedures that can make
emergency response more effective. King's College risk and terror lecturer
Brooke Rogers said it was vital to understand reactions during such an attack.
"A detailed understanding of how members of the public and emergency responders
behave and interact during a terrorist attack is a vital tool for governments
and emergency services when developing effective disaster response plans," she
said. "We expect that today's exercise will provide valuable new insights into
emergency response and challenge many of the traditional assumptions about how
the public reacts during an emergency." The exercise was funded by the European
Union. Sweden will be targeted next year and Poland will face the exercise in
2015.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2013 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS



             PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: WEST MIDLANDS

                     August 15, 2013 Thursday 10:38 AM BST

TERROR ATTACK SIMULATION IN CITY

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 726 words


Emergency services are responding to a simulated terrorist attack in Birmingham
city centre as part of a major European exercise.

A chemical was released inside the International Convention Centre where 150
volunteers were at the conference as part of a research project looking at
public responses to extreme events.

The group had been told beforehand that they would be taking part in an
emergency services exercise but not given exact details.

Around a third were told ahead of time what would happen and given roles to play
- some as a terrorist, some exhibiting symptoms of nerve agent, for example.

Researchers from King's College London will look at and analyse the reaction of
those inside the venue to help identify practices and procedures that can make
emergency response more effective.

Co-ordinated by West Midlands Police in conjunction with CBRNE Ltd, the exercise
is also an opportunity for blue-light services and the local authority to
evaluate emergency procedures in the West Midlands.

The choice of scenario and location does not imply that such an event is either
likely or imminent, but will allow those involved to gain valuable information
on people's responses and requirements, which in turn will help develop
emergency procedures.

It is the first of three exercises across Europe over the next two years as part
of an EU-funded initiative to improve the preparedness and resilience of member
states to a terrorist attack.

The other exercises will be in Sweden next year and Poland in 2015.

Chief Superintendent Chris McKeogh said: ``This exercise provides a great
opportunity for all of those involved to look at procedures in place for an
emergency such as this and put them into action.

``This way, we can evaluate more effectively where we need to further develop
our plans and procedures.

``Today's exercise is a unique opportunity to play a key role in an
international project alongside a large number of other local and international
agencies and organisations.

``We are very advanced already in our ability to deal with major incidents and
it's a testament to the expertise and professionalism of the emergency services
in the West Midlands that Project PRACTICE and CBRNE Ltd chose Birmingham as the
setting for such an important piece of work.''

As well as the initial response, the study of human behaviour and the triage of
casualties, West Midlands Counter Terrorism Unit put its own specialist
investigative strategy to the test.

Procedures to efficiently identify casualties were also trialled to ensure
families of those caught up in terrorist attacks can be informed and supported
as efficiently as possible.

The force's Corporate Communications Department was also part of the exercise,
testing its processes for releasing accurate and timely information of the
terrorist attack.

Mr McKeogh said: ``The UK's counter terrorism agencies have successfully stopped
many terrorist plots in recent years but there is no room for complacency.

``Today's exercise will no doubt contribute towards making not only we here in
the Midlands, but the wider world, better prepared for a terrorism incident.''

Brooke Rogers, senior lecturer in risk and terror at King's College London, said
it was vital to understand reactions during a terrorist attack.

``A detailed understanding of how members of the public and emergency responders
behave and interact during a terrorist attack is a vital tool for governments
and emergency services when developing effective disaster response plans,'' she
said.

``We expect that today's exercise will provide valuable new insights into
emergency response and challenge many of the traditional assumptions about how
the public reacts during an emergency.''

Dominic Kelly, managing director of CBRNE Ltd and chairman for the exercise,
said: ``We could not have chosen a more proactive and helpful group of regional
emergency services to enact this very important exercise for the study of human
behaviour in the challenging scenario selected for this exercise.

``I am certain that Europe will benefit widely from what we will learn - the
West Midlands' emergency services have provided enthusiastic support to this
European Framework Programme 7 research initiative.

``Even before the exercise began ideas and initiatives have crossed national
boundaries consolidating the objective of the European Commission.'' end

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2013 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                     August 15, 2013 Thursday 01:58 PM GMT

Emergency Forces Tackle Mock Terror Attack

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 285 words



HIGHLIGHT: A simulated chemical attack has tested emergency services in the
Midlands as part of a major European anti-terror exercise.


  A chemical was released inside Birmingham's International Convention Centre
where 150 volunteers had been told they were taking part in an exercise but not
given exact details.

Around a third were informed ahead of time what would happen and given roles to
play - some as a terrorist, some exhibiting symptoms of a nerve agent.

Researchers from King's College London will analyse the reaction of those inside
the venue to help identify practices and procedures that can make emergency
response more effective.

Brooke Rogers, senior lecturer in risk and terror at King's College London, said
it was vital to understand reactions during a terrorist attack.

"A detailed understanding of how members of the public and emergency responders
behave and interact during a terrorist attack is a vital tool for governments
and emergency services when developing effective disaster response plans," she
said.

"We expect that today's exercise will provide valuable new insights into
emergency response and challenge many of the traditional assumptions about how
the public reacts during an emergency."

Chief Superintendent Chris McKeogh said: "The UK's counter terrorism agencies
have successfully stopped many terrorist plots in recent years but there is no
room for complacency.

"Today's exercise will no doubt contribute towards making not only we here in
the Midlands, but the wider world, better prepared for a terrorism incident."

It is the first of three exercises across Europe over the next two years as part
of an EU-funded initiative to improve the preparedness and resilience of member
states to a terrorist attack - the other exercises will be in Sweden next year
and Poland in 2015.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2013 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 16, 2013 Friday

Turkey strongly condemns "terrorist" attacks in Lebanon

LENGTH: 174 words


Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also
known as Anatolia)

[Unattributed report: "Turkish foreign ministry strongly condemns Thursday's
terror attacks in Lebanon"]

Foreign ministry: 'Turkey has the belief that Lebanese people will not be
provoked by hateful terror attacks'

ANKARA (AA) -Turkish foreign ministry strongly condemned terror attacks in
Lebanon Thursday which killed many people and left the others wounded.

"Turkey wishes that the perpetrators of the hateful terror attacks be identified
immediately and judged," said the ministry in a written statement.

Turkey has the belief that Lebanese people will not be provoked by hateful
terror attacks targeting at the security and stability of the country and they
will act in common sense not permitting the violation of social harmony, the
ministry said.

Thursday's terror attacks in Lebanese capital Beirut killed over 15 people and
left over a hundred wounded.

Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency, Ankara, in English 1948
gmt 15 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             August 16, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Exercise in terror;
Fake chemical attack in the middle of Brum tests how emergency services would
cope

BYLINE: NICK McCARTHY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 441 words


POLICE and emergency services were put to the test during a fake terrorist
attack on Birmingham's International Convention Centre.

Around 150 volunteers took part in the chilling exercise, which was staged at
the Broad Street venue to test reactions to 'extreme events'.

Police officers wearing gas-masks raced to the scene, along with army, ambulance
and fire service officers after the release of a 'chemical' inside Hall 5, where
'victims' were seated.

The civilian volunteers knew they were taking part in an emergency services
exercise, but many were not given exact details until yesterday.

Some played terrorists, while others were asked to be casualties and show
symptoms of having suffered a nerve agent attack.

Researchers from King's College London will now analyse the day to help make any
reallife emergency response more effective.

Yesterday's exercise was coordinated by West Midlands Police in conjunction with
CBRNE Ltd, a private company who are experts 'in the fields of chemical,
biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive risk assessment and mitigation'.

The city event was the first of three exercises planned across Europe over the
next two years as part of an EUfunded initiative called Project PRACTICE. It
aims to improve the preparedness and resilience of countries to a terrorist
attack.

The other exercises will be held in Sweden next year and Poland in 2015.

Chief Superintendent Chris McKeogh, of West Midlands Police, said: "This
exercise provided a great opportunity for all of those involved to look at
procedures in place for an emergency such as this and put them into action.

"This way, we can evaluate more effectively where we need to further develop our
plans and procedures.

"We are very advanced already in our ability to deal with major incidents and
it's a testament to the expertise and professionalism of the emergency services
in the West Midlands that Project PRACTICE and CBRNE Ltd chose Birmingham as the
setting for such an important piece of work."

As well as the initial emergency service response, West Midlands Counter
Terrorism Unit put its own specialist investigative strategy to the test during
the exercise.

Procedures to efficiently identify casualties were also trialled to ensure
families of those caught up in terrorist attacks can be informed and supported
as efficiently as possible.

Mr McKeogh added: "The UK's counter terrorism agencies have successfully stopped
many terrorist plots in recent years but there is no room for complacency.

"Today's exercise will no doubt contribute towards making not only we here in
the Midlands, but the wider world, better prepared for a terrorism incident."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Medical staff don chemical suits for the vital exercise.
A simulated terrorist attack involving 150 volunteers at the ICC in Birmingham
yesterday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2013 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                August 16, 2013
                                 First Edition

Panic on the streets of Birmingham? It'll take more than a terror attack;
City's population stay calm during mock assault, Paul Peachey reports EMERGENCY

BYLINE: Paul Peachey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 620 words


Just after 9.30am yesterday, a "terrorist" surreptitiously reached beneath his
seat at Birmingham's International Convention Centre and punctured a plastic
container, releasing its deadly contents of sarin gas into hall five.

In the throes of apparent death, the man, who for one day only was a terrorist
with an unspecified grievance, slumped over the seat in front triggering a major
simulated exercise testing the emergency services' abilities to cope with a
major chemical incident.

The emergency services regularly conduct such role-playing incidents, often on
isolated bases out of the public eye. But in a new departure, a group of some 40
so-called "clean skins" were included among the 150 volunteers and were told
little of what would happen to understand how they would respond.

"Most of the emergency exercises are built on technical testing and procedures,
they leave out the human behaviour," said Brooke Rogers, a senior lecturer in
risk and terror at King's College London. "This exercise is enabling them to
respond to real reactions, or as real as can be."

Major incident planning assumes that innocent bystanders will inevitably panic,
and then immediately follow the advice of the first uniformed services at the
scene, she told i. The exercise in the city centre yesterday in front of bemused
onlookers appeared to prove what academics had expected: human nature in the
face of disaster is to respond with an unexpected level of calm, even if the
threat is not real.

"All of the literature and the case studies - of 9/11, the sarin attacks in
Tokyo, and July 7 - show that members of the public are the first responders and
help one another," said Ms Rogers. "There was no shouting, and no screaming. If
people are put at risk, they are calm and collected."

She cited as evidence the 1995 attack on the Tokyo subway system by the Aum
Shinrikyo cult that killed 13, which saw passing motorists collect the injured
and take them to hospitals - contaminating the hospital, and their cars. The
exercise in Birmingham yesterday countered that theoretical threat by keeping
the "victims" on site until they were stripped down and went through
contamination units.

Under the scenario, four minutes after the apparent terrorist first slumped
showing all the signs of succumbing to nerve agent, another pre-briefed group of
volunteers showed contamination.

One wheezing middle-aged man emerged from the lecture theatre and demanded help
from the guards standing outside. Jamie Stanford-Beale, a university student
studying disaster management and one of the volunteers, said: "One screamed she
couldn't see any more. It was very realistic, people were saying: 'Is this real
life, is this part of the exercise?'" Four people "died" in the exercise,
including two collapsed in the corridor outside the conference hall, as they
were ushered out of the building.

In support of Ms Brookes' theory, the Independent witnessed two clusters of
volunteers surrounding the stricken pair in the corridor, including a
middle-aged man shouting for blankets and oxygen who appeared bemused when they
did not arrive. One woman inside the conference room had to be told forcefully
to leave the building while trying to administer first aid.

The test was the first of three EU-funded tests over the next two years which
will test if there are cultural differences in responding to instructions from
the emergency services.

The tests, with the next ones in Sweden and Poland, are designed to hone how the
emergency services deal with any terrorist attack, or chemical spill. Previous
episodes have suggested there will be different responses to authority in
Poland, with its history of martial law during trade union protests of the
1980s.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2013 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      August 16, 2013 Friday 12:08 AM GMT

Panic on the streets of Birmingham: City responds to mock terror attack;
Exercise tests if there are cultural differences in responding to instructions
from emergency services

BYLINE: Paul Peachey

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 567 words


Just after 9.30am, a "terrorist" surreptitiously reached beneath his seat at
Birmingham's International Convention Centre and punctured a plastic container,
releasing its deadly contents of sarin gas into hall five.

In the throes of apparent death, the man - who for one day only was a terrorist
with an unspecified grievance - slumped over the seat in front, triggering a
simulated exercise testing the emergency services' abilities to cope with a
major chemical incident.

The emergency services regularly conduct such role-playing incidents, often on
isolated bases out of the public eye. But in a new departure, a group of some 40
"clean skins" were included among the 150 volunteers and were told little of
what would happen, to understand how they would respond to the threat of death.

"Most of the emergency exercises are built on technical testing and procedures,
they leave out the human behaviour," said Brooke Rogers, a senior lecturer in
risk and terror at King's College London. "This exercise is enabling them to
respond to real reactions, or as real as can be."

Major incident planning assumes that innocent bystanders will inevitably panic,
and then immediately follow the advice of the first uniformed services at the
scene, she said.

The exercise in the city centre in front of bemused onlookers appeared to prove
what academics had expected: that human nature in the face of disaster is to
respond with an unexpected level of calm and little panic.

"All of the literature and the case studies - of 9/11, the sarin attacks in
Tokyo, and 7 July - show that members of the public are the first responders and
help one another," said Ms Rogers. "There was no shouting, and no screaming. If
people are put at risk, they are calm and collected."

She cited as evidence the 1995 attack on the Tokyo subway system by the Aum
Shinrikyo cult that killed 13, which saw passing motorists collect the injured
and take them to hospitals - contaminating the hospital, and their cars in the
process. The exercise in Birmingham countered that theoretical threat by keeping
the "victims" on site until they were stripped down and went through
contamination units.

Under the scenario, four minutes after the apparent "terrorist" showed the signs
of succumbing to a nerve agent, another pre-briefed group of volunteers among
the 150 showed symptoms of contamination.

One wheezing middle-aged man emerged from the lecture theatre and demanded help
from the guards standing outside. Jamie Stanford-Beale, a university student
studying disaster management and one of the volunteers, said: "One screamed she
couldn't see any more. It was very realistic, people were saying: 'Is this real
life, is this part of the exercise'?"

Four people "died" in the exercise, including two who collapsed in the corridor
outside the conference hall as they were ushered out of the building.

In support of Ms Brookes' theory, The Independent witnessed two clusters of
volunteers surrounding the stricken pair in the corridor, including a
middle-aged man shouting for blankets and oxygen who appeared bemused when they
did not arrive. One woman inside the conference room had to be told forcefully
to leave the building while trying to administer first aid.

The test was the first of three EU-funded tests over the next two years which
will test if there are cultural differences in responding to instructions from
the emergency services.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                             August 16, 2013 Friday

Following terrorist attacks, Security Council urges Lebanese people to remain
united

LENGTH: 257 words


August 16, 2013

The United Nations Security Council has appealed to all Lebanese people to
preserve national unity, following a car bomb explosion in a Beirut suburb that
killed at least 14 people and wounded more than 200.



In a statement issued to the press last night, members of the Council strongly
condemned the attack, and reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms is
criminal, unjustifiable, and constitutes one of the most serious threats to
international peace and security.

The Council also reiterated the need to combat by all means, in accordance with
the UN Charter and international law, threats to international peace and
security caused by terrorist acts. In addition, the stressed the need to bring
the perpetrators of these acts to justice.

"The members of the Security Council appealed to all Lebanese people to preserve
national unity in the face of attempts to undermine the country's stability and
stressed the importance for all Lebanese parties to respect Lebanon's policy of
disassociation and to refrain from any involvement in the Syrian crisis,
consistent with their commitment in the Baabda Declaration," said the statement.


The Baabda Declaration, which was issued during a National Dialogue meeting in
June 2012, calls for keeping Lebanon neutral from regional tensions and crises.
The Declaration is named after the Baabda Presidential Palace, where the meeting
was held.

The Council extended its condolences to the victims of yesterday's attack and
their families and expressed its sympathy to all those injured.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                             August 16, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Facing terror threat head on;
'Chemical attack' on Birmingham convention centre tests Britain's defences

BYLINE: DOMINIC YEATMAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 180 words


TERROR was unleashed on the streets of Britain yesterday - but it was all part
of a mock exercise to gauge how we would react to an attack.

The simulated drill saw the release of a chemical into a conference centre where
150 volunteers took on the roles of extremists or victims of a gas attack.

Police officers, firefighters and members of the Army descended on Birmingham's
International Convention Centre for the operation which was part of a major
European exercise.

While the exercise gave the emergency services the chance to evaluate their
procedures, the reactions of the volunteers were observed by researchers from
King's College London.

Dr Brooke Rogers, senior lecturer in risk and terror, said the study would
provide a 'vital tool' for effective disaster response plans.

'This exercise will provide valuable new insights into emergency response and
challenge many of the traditional assumptions about how the public reacts during
an emergency.' The terror training day, co-ordinated by West Midlands Police and
CBRNE Ltd, comes ahead of similar exercises in Sweden and Poland.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Going in: A police officer wearing a gas mask prepares to storm the
International Convention Centre in Birmingham yesterday
PICTURE: PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 16, 2013 Friday 2:04 PM GMT

Breast implant explosives could be used in terrorist attack;
Heathrow Airport staff have been warned that women could conceal dangerous
explosives in their breasts.

BYLINE: By Olivia Goldhill

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 402 words


Al-Qaeda's chief bomb-maker Ibrahim al-Asiri is thought to have developed
explosives that can be concealed in implants or bodily cavities and escape
detection from airport scanners, according to The Mirror .

One staff member said: "There are genuine fears over this.

"We have been told to pay particular attention to females who may have concealed
hidden explosives in their breasts.

"This is particularly difficult for us to pick up but we are on a very high
state of alert.

"It's led to long queues here at Heathrow - much longer than usual at this time
of the year.

"But because it's the summer holiday season, no one has complained."

According to Philip Baum, editor of Security International, body scanners are
good at identify objects outside the body but not inside and the "possibility of
medically implanted explosives is a concern to the industry."

Explosives expert Andy Oppenheimer said: "There is a great fear that al-Qaeda
are planning on using internal devices to try and get through airport scanners.

"These explosives could be in breast implants."

Another specialist, who asked not to be named, said breast implant bombs could
be set off by injecting another liquid.

The expert added: "Both are very difficult to pick up with current technology
and they are petrified al-Qaeda are a step ahead here.

"It's pretty top secret and potentially very grisly and ghastly."

Independent security analyst Paul Beaver said: "There are currently deeply
serious concerns over body cavities and implants of all kinds - including breast
implants - being used to hide explosives.

"It is taking longer to get through Heathrow and other airports in Europe and
North America because of these fears.

"They are taking longer to screen people and there is definitely some sort of
profiling going on.

"The general alert state remains the same in the UK but overseas, the recent
Pakistan prison breakouts and foiled attacks in Yemen are raising fears of a new
jihadist wave of violence."

Mr Beaver added: "The terrorist is getting clever, but so are detection methods.

"The fact we know about the new methods suggests there are detection and
counter-measure options.

"Implant bombs are a one-way ticket anyway so the suicide bomber won't care what
the trigger might be.

"It would have to be simple and straightforward - perhaps electrical."

A Heathrow Airport spokesman said: "We don't comment on specific security
measures."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 17, 2013 Saturday 5:42 AM GMT

Hillary Clinton exploded at a congressman two days after Benghazi for suggesting
that the attack was the work of terrorists, says GOP Rep.

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 687 words


An Illinois Republican congressman told constituents at a town hall meeting on
Wednesday that then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton screamed at a fellow
member of Congress two days after a U.S. diplomatic station in Benghazi, Libya
was destroyed, merely for saying aloud that the attack was carried out by
terrorist groups..

The Obama administration later acknowledged that reality.

But White House officials initially maintained that the deaths of four Americans
and the firebomb attack on the State Department mission was the result of a
spontaneous protest against a low-budget YouTube film that was critical of the
Muslim prophet Muhammad.

'Two days after this attack,' said Rep. Adam Kinzinger, 'we were in a briefing
with Hillary Clinton and she screamed at a member of Congress who'd dare suggest
that this was a terrorist attack.'

'Now we find out that while it was happening, they knew it was a terrorist
attack. These are answers that we're going to get to the bottom of.'

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEOS

Kinzinger's office told  National Review Online that the meeting he referred to
was a classified briefing held for all members of Congress.

The congressman appeared on the Fox News Channel on Friday, recalling Clinton
'basically, in a very loud, angry voice, [saying] "It's irresponsible to even
suggest this is a terror attack. This is a YouTube video. We know that there are
protests all over, and we need to be very careful how we're saying this" -- and
basically chided this member of Congress.'

A frustrated Kinzinger, who served in combat in the US Air National Guard,
imagined himself as one of the four U.S. casualties in Benghazi.

'If I do happen to die in service to my country,' he said, 'I'd think that my
country would not deny me the honor of having died in service in the war on
terror, versus service in defense of a YouTube video.'

'And in essence, that's where we were leading at the beginning, until all the
evidence stacked up that they knew from the very beginning this was an organized
terror attack.'

In January when Clinton testified before a House panel about Benghazi, Kinzinger
challenged her on her insistence during that briefing that the YouTube video was
to blame.

'When you briefed us, you said unequivocally this was a result of a video,' he
said during the January 23 hearing. 'I remember in fact, you got pretty upset
when somebody suggested this was a terror attack. This was our briefing that we
had. But we find out now it wasn't a video, it was this terrorist attack.'

Clinton remembered things differently.

'I did not say that it was video, that it was about the video for Libya,' she
insisted. 'It certainly was for many of the other places where we were watching
these disturbances.'

But at the Aspen Security Forum in June, General Carter Ham - the commander of
U.S. forces in Africa when the Benghazi attack took place - said that on
September 11, 2012, 'it became apparent to all of us quickly that this was not a
demonstration. This was a violent attack.'

Responding to a question about what the initial intelligence suggested, he said
it clearly pointed to terrorism.

'I don't know if that was my first reaction,' said Gen. Ham, 'but pretty quickly
as we started to gain understanding within the hours after the initiation of the
attack, yes.'

The video of Kinzinger was published online by Illinois conservative activist
Ulysses S. Arnon his personal blog.

'Hillary's attitude towards that still unidentified member of Congress is very
telling,' Arn wrote, 'for in the months that have followed the deadly attack in
Benghazi that killed Ambassador Chris Stevens, Sean Smith, Tyrone Woods, and
Glen Doherty we have learned that the entire Obama administration knew that
Benghazi was a terrorist attack as it was going on.'

'With any luck,' he added, 'hopefully congressman Kinzinger's comments and my
video of them will dog Clinton for the remainder of her time in the public
spotlight.'

Arn said that he and Kitzinger 'don't see eye to eye,' and that he was helping
other candidates who would try to defeat him in a Republican primary next year.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 18, 2013 Sunday

Terrorist attack on fuel tanks in Syria's Hasaka causes heavy losses

LENGTH: 136 words


Text of report by R.MilhemF.Allafi published in English by state-run Syrian news
agency SANA website

Hasaka - In the framework of targeting infrastructure and public and service
facilities, an armed terrorist group on Sunday [18 August] attacked gasoline and
diesel tanks in Hasaka, leaving great damage on them and causing heavy losses.

Manager of Mahroukat "Fuel" Company in Hasaka, Mahmud Shaykho, said in a
statement to SANA that the terrorist attack resulted in heavy material damage to
a tank that contained 500 thousand litres of diesel and caused a big fire,
noting that none of the workers was harmed. He pointed out that fire fighters
put off fire although they were targeted by the terrorists in an attempt to
force them not to reach the site.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 18 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 19, 2013 Monday

Egyptian Salafist Al-Nur Party condemns Rafah terror attack

LENGTH: 160 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA website

Cairo, 19 August: The murder of Egyptian soldiers in Rafah, North Sinai,
contradicts the true values of Islam and humanity, said Salafist Al-Nur Party
leader Yunis Makhyun.

Earlier today, 25 Central Security Forces men were killed and two others injured
on the Rafah-Arish highway when terrorists targeted their vehicle.

In a statement, Makhyun said such criminal operations are the product of
perverted Takfiri thought and fatwas (religious edicts) slamming police and army
men as infidels.

Sides to the conflict have to be flexible and find a solution to the current
crisis to restore the national fabric, he said.

Security solutions alone are useless and could further complicate the situation,
he said, urging all sides to put the nation's interests first.

He extended his condolences to the victims' families and the Egyptian people.

Source: MENA news agency website, Cairo, in English 1330gmt 19 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            August 20, 2013 Tuesday

Reaction: Israelis face restrictions on travel abroad amid fears of terror
attacks

BYLINE: Harriet Sherwood in Jerusalem and Hazem Balousha in Gaza City

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 579 words


Israeli alarm at the instability in its most strategically important neighbour
intensified yesterday with the killing of at least 24 Egyptian police officers
across the border from Gaza.

Israel has been trying to persuade the United States and Europe to refrain from
overt condemnation of, or sanctions against, the military-led regime in Cairo.

The ambush by militants of two police buses close to the town of Rafah in the
Sinai reinforced Israel's view that the desert area is in the grip of "global
jihadists" hostile to both Cairo and Israel. "This is exactly the kind of thing
that we fear could spread beyond the Sinai," said an Israeli government
official, who stressed that no official statements on events in Egypt would be
forthcoming for fear of inflaming anti-Israel opinion.

The Israeli counter-terrorism bureau barred its citizens from travelling to Red
Sea resorts in the Sinai peninsula, and to a string of other Middle Eastern and
north African countries, because of "concrete" indications of planned terror
attacks against Israeli targets.

Israeli contacts with US and European officials, aimed at urging the
prioritisation of stability in Egypt, were continuing, the official said. "We
want the least possible interference in the interests of a quick return to
reasonable calm."

Actions such as the suspension of military and economic aid to the Egyptian
regime in protest over its bloody crackdown on the Muslim Brotherhood would not
be helpful, he said. Israel is understood to have lobbied the US against
sanctions in response to last month's military takeover of Egypt and the
subsequent violent repression of Brotherhood activists. "As much as we dislike
the message of the Egyptian army, there is no other option. It is a simple but
cruel formula: army or anarchy," the Israeli official told the Guardian this
week.

EU foreign ministers will hold emergency talks on the situation in Egypt
tomorrow.

Binyamin Ben-Eliezer, a former Israeli defence minister and a friend of the
ousted Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak, said the military takeover in Egypt was
to prevent an Islamic dictatorship. "The west is making a mistake to some extent
by saying that the nation chose (the recently deposed president Mohamed) Morsi
and he was democratically elected. That's true, but there have been fascist
regimes that took advantage of democracies to rise to power," he told the
Jerusalem Post.

Israel's security cabinet was briefed for two hours on Friday evening.

"This is a highly volatile situation," said the Israeli official. "Egypt is the
heart of the Arab world, the pillar on which the whole Middle East stands."

In Gaza, Hamas said it had no interest in becoming embroiled in the violence in
Egypt. Ismail Haniyeh, the Hamas prime minister, said at a reception for
released prisoners that the movement did not "interfere in the internal issues
of Arab countries". Hamas's sole concern was to "resist the occupation on our
land".

Hamas's immediate concern is to persuade the authorities in Cairo to reopen the
Rafah crossing, Gaza's gateway to Egypt and the rest of world. Abu Hafs
Almaqdsy, head of the Salafist faction Jaish el-Omma, called on "all clerics in
Egypt to fight against the Egyptian army . . . for killing Muslims". He denied
any connection to the attack on the police buses.

The Popular Resistance Committees condemned the killing of the police officers,
accusing Israel of being behind the attack in order "to increase division among
Egyptian people".

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 20, 2013 Tuesday 7:43 PM GMT

So no-one was to blame! State Department employees suspended over Benghazi
terror attack are re-instated

BYLINE: DAVID MARTOSKO IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 770 words


Four State Department employees who were placed on administrative leave after
the Benghazi terror attack have been reinstated, it emerged today.

A top House Republican also confirmed that the U.S. State Department's review of
the attack and its aftermath did not include interviews with the employees -
suggesting that they may have been used as scapegoats to spare higher-ups any
responsibility.

Those four State employees, the only ones disciplined after the 2012 terror
attack on a diplomatic facility in Libya, were told Monday to return to work.
They won't face any formal discipline.

A State Department official told MailOnline on Tuesday that after Secretary of
State John Kerry took over from former Secretary Hillary Clinton, the four
employees were placed on leave in order to avoid the appearance of favoritism
after Kerry inherited the Benghazi mess.

But their reinstatement means that no one at State has been held accountable for
failing to prevent the attack, which claimed the lives of four Americans
including U.S. Ambassador to Libya Christopher Stevens.

Rep Darrell Issa, a feisty California Republican who chairs the House Oversight
Committee, accused the State Department on Tuesday of dragging its feet and
failing to investigate what happened in Libya.

'Obama administration officials repeatedly promised the families of victims and
the American people that officials responsible for security failures would be
held accountable,' Issa recalled in a statement.

'Instead of accountability, the State Department offered a charade that included
false reports of firings and resignations and now ends in a game of musical
chairs where no one misses a single day on the State Department payroll.'

'It is now clear that the personnel actions taken by the Department in response
to the Benghazi terrorist attacks was more of a public relations strategy than a
measured response to a failure in leadership.'

Issa pointed to a December 2012 report issued by a State Department
Accountability Review Board before Kerry was named to replace Clinton. That
board, he said, never interviewed the four employees who were edtermined to be
at fault.

'The State Department's review of these four individuals did not include
interviews with them or their supervisors to either substantiate or challenge
allegations,' Issa said.

'The Oversight Committee will expand its investigation of the Benghazi terrorist
attack to include how a supposed "Accountability Review Board" investigation
resulted in a decision by Secretary Kerry not to pursue any accountability from
anyone.'

At the time the Accountability Review Board released its report, The Daily Beast
reported Tuesday, blame for the attack was fixed at the Assistant Secretary
level.

Thomas Pickering, a former State official who co-chaired the Accountability
Review Board, made that determination.

'The Board did not find reasonable cause to determine that any individual U.S.
government employee breached his or her duty,' the report said.

Fox News                      named the four State Department employees who have
now been asked back and reassigned to new duties.

'Eric Boswell, assistant secretary of state for diplomatic security resigned
from his position,' Fox reported. 'Charlene Lamb, the deputy assistant security
tasked with embassy security, as well as Scott Bultrowicz, the former director
of diplomatic security, were placed on leave by then-Secretary Hillary Clinton.
Deputy Assistant Secretary Raymond Maxwell, who was responsible for the entire
North Africa region, was also dangling in employment limbo.'

The Daily Beast spoke with Maxwell on Tuesday.

'No explanation, no briefing, just come back to work. So I will go in tomorrow,'
he said.  'The overall goal is to restore my honor,' Maxwell added.

A senior official at State told Fox that none of the four reinstated employees
will 'return to the positions they held prior to the [report's] release and at
the time of the attack.'

Benghazi has been a persistent thorn in the Obama administration's side since
Day One, when officials blamed the terror attack on a spontaneous protest which
allegedly erupted over a crude anti-Islam film produced in the United States.

While uprisings in other countries may have been initially related to the video,
no evidence emerged that Benghazi was among them.

Benghazi hangs over Hillary Clinton's head as she presses forward toward a
presidential run in 2016.

Florida GOP Senator Marco Rubio said in April that Mrs. Clinton 'is going to
have to explain' the State Department's Benghazi failure if she declares her
candidacy.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 20, 2013 Tuesday 12:47 PM GMT

Breast implant explosives could be used in terrorist attack;
Heathrow Airport staff have been warned that women could conceal dangerous
explosives in their breasts.

BYLINE: By Olivia Goldhill

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 365 words


Al-Qaeda's chief bomb-maker Ibrahim al-Asiri is thought to have developed
explosives that can be concealed in implants or bodily cavities and escape
detection from airport scanners, according to The Mirror .

One staff member said: "There are genuine fears over this.

"We have been told to pay particular attention to females who may have concealed
hidden explosives in their breasts.

"This is particularly difficult for us to pick up but we are on a very high
state of alert.

"It's led to long queues here at Heathrow - much longer than usual at this time
of the year.

"But because it's the summer holiday season, no one has complained."

Explosives expert Andy Oppenheimer said: "There is a great fear that al-Qaeda
are planning on using internal devices to try and get through airport scanners.

"These explosives could be in breast implants."

Another specialist, who asked not to be named, said breast implant bombs could
be set off by injecting another liquid.

The expert added: "Both are very difficult to pick up with current technology
and they are petrified al-Qaeda are a step ahead here.

"It's pretty top secret and potentially very grisly and ghastly."

Independent security analyst Paul Beaver said: "There are currently deeply
serious concerns over body cavities and implants of all kinds - including breast
implants - being used to hide explosives.

"It is taking longer to get through Heathrow and other airports in Europe and
North America because of these fears.

"They are taking longer to screen people and there is definitely some sort of
profiling going on.

"The general alert state remains the same in the UK but overseas, the recent
Pakistan prison breakouts and foiled attacks in Yemen are raising fears of a new
jihadist wave of violence."

Mr Beaver added: "The terrorist is getting clever, but so are detection methods.

"The fact we know about the new methods suggests there are detection and
counter-measure options.

"Implant bombs are a one-way ticket anyway so the suicide bomber won't care what
the trigger might be.

"It would have to be simple and straightforward - perhaps electrical."

A Heathrow Airport spokesman said: "We don't comment on specific security
measures."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 21, 2013 Wednesday

Algerian gendarmes repel "terrorist" attack in Bouira province

LENGTH: 123 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper L'Expression website on 21
August

On 20 August, elements of the National Gendarmerie [GN] repelled a terrorist
attack carried out against one of their forward posts set up on the northeast
edge of the city of Lakhdaria, north of Bouira, it was indicated, yesterday,
from a security source.

"The GN successfully repelled this attack, which was carried out by an
undetermined number of terrorists on Monday at 2300 hours on a forward post set
up in the 490 Housing Units neighbourhood, located some two kilometres northeast
of the city of Lakhdaria," the same source added. The same source reported none
wounded in the ranks of the GN.

Source: L'Expression website, Algiers, in French 21 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Kentish Gazette

                                August 22, 2013

My terror when vicious bull terrier attacked guide dog

LENGTH: 461  words


by Gerry Warren

gwarren@thekmgroup.co.uk

@Gerry_Warren

A blind woman has relived the terror she felt when her guide dog was attacked in
a public park by a vicious Staffordshire bull terrier.

Linda Brooks, 62, of Sleigh Road, Sturry, spoke of the horrific ordeal after
learning about recent dog attacks in Bridge, which were reported in the Gazette.

She says it has left her a nervous wreck and fearful of going out alone, with
her retriever Abbey still recovering from her injuries.

The mum-of-two says the frightening incident has made her anxious and seriously
dented her confidence.

She said: "Abbey was on a lead but the bull terrier was running loose and it
just went straight for her throat. I will never forget her screams for as long
as I live.

"I was slapping out but, of course, couldn't see. It was an awful feeling
knowing that I just couldn't help her."

Her husband Fred, 64, a retired toolmaker, added: "The dog's jaws were really
clamped around Abbey's neck and I was desperately trying to prise them open, but
they wouldn't budge. I was thinking 'for God's sake Abbey, don't die'."

Fortunately, a park warden was nearby and arrived on the scene in a Land Rover,
tooting his horn loudly and distracting the bull terrier for long enough for
Abbey to be rescued.

But she suffered severe puncture wounds to her throat and is still on
antibiotics to prevent an infection.

Mrs Brooks said: "She is quite subdued and it has knocked her confidence too.

"We later found out that the owner of the dog was asleep under a tree. They just
went off with the dog afterwards without saying a word but the park warden
followed her and found her address.

"But it was very frightening and families with children were clearly upset
because they moved away while it was going on."

Mrs Brooks was born with a hereditary eye disease which has rendered her almost
totally blind. Abbey is her third guide dog and she has had her for five years.

She says she had to speak out after reading of dog walkers and their pets being
attacked recently in Bridge and the initial police reluctance to pursue the
cases.

She said: "Ours happened when we were visiting Chesham in Buckinghamshire and we
had a similar experience when we called the police there.

"I really had to press them to do something about it because there is a law
which says that owners must keep their dogs under control in a public place.

"I asked the sergeant did she really want it on her conscience if that dog was
to perhaps attack a child in the future?

"They finally took notice and I have just received an email saying that the dog
has been confiscated, with the owner's permission, and taken to a vet - which I
assume means it has been put down.

"I am now thinking of setting up a website to offer victims of dog attacks
advice."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 23, 2013 Friday

Police warn of terror attacks at Kenyan coastal town

LENGTH: 507 words


Text of report by Calvin Onsarigo entitled "Police warn of terror attacks in
Mombasa" published by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star website on
23 August

Coast police are on high alert following intelligence reports that indicated the
Al-Shabab militants who crossed into the country two weeks ago from Somalia
would launch attacks to commemorate the 27 August death of controversial Muslim
cleric Sheikh Aboud Rogo.

Sources in the force said the terror thugs have targeted police stations,
especially the Anti-Terrorist Police Units, as well as churches. The
intelligence reports say Faud Abubakar, an ally of 29-year-old British terror
suspect Jermaine Grant has a hand in the plot.

"Although he sneaked into Somalia after jumping a 20m-shilling [232,000 dollars]
bail he had a hand in the plot," says the report seen by The Star.

Mombasa county commander, senior assistant commissioner of police Robert Kitur,
confirmed the threats and said police were on high alert.

Kitur said that the report has been widely shared among key security agencies to
curb the planned attack.

"I'm aware there are security threats by Al-Shabab militants to carry out
attacks to commemorate the death of Rogo on 27 August next week. We have put
security on the ground to avert such attacks, be it on churches or police
stations," Kitur said.

"We are not arresting people arbitrarily. We will gather evidence before
arresting those behind the attacks. We are still profiling those linked with the
plot," he added.

Police have appealed to the public to be vigilant especially at crowded areas
and share information on suspicious characters and movements.

The threats come in the wake of high profile visits by prominent African leaders
including President Uhuru, who is expected to attend infrastructure conference
and commission the second container terminal at the port of Mombasa, and also
officially open the Agricultural Society of Kenya [ASK] Mombasa show next week.

Former Nigeria President Olesegun Obasanjo is also expected in Diani for an
African governance conference.

Kenya's presidential security detail have also been briefed about the imminent
threats and elaborate security measures have been put in place to avert any
attempt or attack.

During last year's ASK show around the same time that Rogo was killed by unknown
assailants near the Jomo Kenyatta public beach in Bamburi, military officers
replaced other security officers and took over the guarding of the then
President Mwai Kibaki when he arrived in Mombasa at the height of violent
protests sparked by Rogo's killing.

Five people, including police officers, were killed and property worth millions
of shilling either looted or destroyed during the protests.

Kibaki ignored the threats and flew in in a move viewed as a government effort
to show confidence in their security apparatus.

Yesterday, Kitur said security will be beefed from this coming Sunday, when the
Mombasa International marathon starts, to thwart any possible attacks.

Source: The Star website, Nairobi, in English 23 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             August 23, 2013 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Trust me, taking my suncream on board is no threat;
Going through airport security changed for ever after the terror attacks but
some rules are wearing thin

BYLINE: Emily Maitlis

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 942 words


IHAVE taken off shoes, coat, sunglasses, watch, sweater, belt and earrings. I'm
now removing the tissues from my short pockets. Tissues take a long time with
me: there are scrunched-up tissues about my person constantly. The tissues are
causing such concern among the security personnel that I am now being patted
down. Then the female guard makes me stick my hands behind my ears and put my
tongue out. She is checking for piercings but I become aware that I now seem
faintly abusive. It's not a good look.

There are only two scenarios that could explain the above. Visiting rights at a
maximum security jail. Or a sunny holiday flight to somewhere really
threatening, such as La Rochelle.

It is, of course, the latter.

On my way to Oslo last year, my perfectly packed carry-on case squeaked as it
went through the machine. After a 40-minute wait, I was told explosive traces
had been found on the handle. Could I explain it? I couldn't. I did try. But I
ran out of things to say because explosives and me are not natural companions.

I do not even allow my children Nerf guns.

They ran another check on the bag. Explosive traces again. They upended the
entire thing, laying out Tampax and knickers and - even more excruciating, a
copy of Fifty Shades - with an artful tenderness that bordered on irony. I went
into a zen-like calm. It was the day after Andrew Mitchell had lost his rag with
that policeman at the Downing Street gates and I knew that I couldn't afford to
get stroppy.

The lady in charge was lovely. "Almost everything counts as explosives these
days," she chuckled. "Gardening tools, hand cream". I nodded sympathetically but
inside I was screaming: "HAND CREAM?" If hand cream is setting off the
explosives detector, perhaps the machine is not ideally suited to its task. Both
it and I were in danger of becoming a little oversensitive.

The double explosive test kicked in an automatic airport security alert. Sure
enough, within minutes I was escorted through the building by armed officers
from Special Branch. They took my name, scribbled down details and oddly
apologised, even though they were just scrupulously doing their job.

The Special Branch female officer asked me the purpose of travel. I told her
leisure - a half marathon. She was from the North, as I am: "Why aren't you
doing the Great North Run?" she asked, affronted. "Your colleague Sophie did."
She looked at me more suspiciously than at any time during the explosives
debacle. It was my turn to apologise. "Too hilly," I mumbled. And I promised to
consider it next year if she let me on to the plane before I missed it.

I seem to spend an awful lot of time in airport security. I don't mean I'm a
jetsetter: I mean I literally spend a long time in the security bit. Perhaps it
is my obsession with always travelling with only hand luggage. Perhaps I am just
unlucky. But increasingly, I think I am just normal.

And that's what worries me most. Because every time I see some poor mother made
to drink her own breast milk or some dad being told to throw away the last
centimetre of his screaming toddler's medicine because it comes in a 125ml
bottle, every time I look at the Warhol-like mountain of Nivea and water bottles
and the near nudity and the endless queues, I can't help wondering if we're
really getting this whole war on terror thing right.

And I know, because I have been told by a friend, that I risk sounding - what
was the lovely phrase? - "a bit of a twat" when I moan about something so
fundamental. So for the record, this is not a complaint about the folk at UK
Border Agency, who are encumbered by more and more regulations each time a
foiled plot hits the headlines.

It is not even a complaint about the millions BAA must be raking in through this
status quo, where people re-buy the shampoo they have just been made to throw
away (often in a bottle too large for them to bring back into the country a week
later).

It is a reflection - during some of my 40-minute stints by the X-ray machine -
on how many of the rituals we now intone before every flight are really
justified and effective. The ban on liquids, for example, was introduced
following the foiled 2006 airline bomb plot. It was policing genius that worked
out how a Lucozade bottle could be subtly turned from refreshing energiser into
a peroxide-based death trap. I am not joking when I say that discovery was
phenomenal.

The trouble is, terrorists adapt and iterate, as we do. The smart ones are
smart. This month reports suggest that the latest designer bomb can be
surgically placed inside the body. Don't tell me that's going to be foiled by
making me throw away the Colgate. Or the "spray-on bomb" that is aerosoled on to
a wet T-shirt and detonates when dry. To a terrorist, large drink bottles are
probably soooo 2006 - the zeitgeist equivalent of Larry and Sergei using a
typewriter.

In truth, some of the measures from the 2006 plot have now been tacitly
abandoned by some countries. I'm always surprised to see how much more relaxed
America - yes America, with its pit-bull immigration officers - is about its
carry-on system.

So I just want someone to explain to me whether we are clinging to these
measures out of superstition, or whether we are happy to keep adding and adding.
And more importantly, whether we are in danger of missing the next trick because
we are dwelling on the last. Because I remain to be convinced that the
achievements of our security services are down to - whisper it quietly - making
everyone throw away their suncream.

It was policing genius that worked out how a Lucozade bottle could be subtly
turned from refreshing energiser into a peroxidebased death trap

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Thorough: security at airports remains tight - and a test of patience
for even the most seasoned traveller

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      August 23, 2013 Friday 11:44 AM GMT

Trust me, taking my suncream on board is no threat;
Going through airport security changed for ever after the terror attacks but
some rules are wearing thin

SECTION: COMMENT

LENGTH: 922 words


I have taken off shoes, coat, sunglasses, watch, sweater, belt and earrings. I'm
now removing the tissues from my short pockets. Tissues take a long time with
me: there are scrunched-up tissues about my person constantly. The tissues are
causing such concern among the security personnel that I am now being patted
down. Then the female guard makes me stick my hands behind my ears and put my
tongue out. She is checking for piercings but I become aware that I now seem
faintly abusive. It's not a good look.

There are only two scenarios that could explain the above. Visiting rights at a
maximum security jail. Or a sunny holiday flight to somewhere really
threatening, such as La Rochelle.

It is, of course, the latter.

On my way to Oslo last year, my perfectly packed carry-on case squeaked as it
went through the machine. After a 40-minute wait, I was told explosive traces
had been found on the handle. Could I explain it? I couldn't. I did try. But I
ran out of things to say because explosives and me are not natural companions. I
do not even allow my children Nerf guns.

They ran another check on the bag. Explosive traces again. They upended the
entire thing, laying out Tampax and knickers and - even more excruciating, a
copy of Fifty Shades - with an artful tenderness that bordered on irony. I went
into a zen-like calm. It was the day after Andrew Mitchell had lost his rag with
that policeman at the Downing Street gates and I knew that I couldn't afford to
get stroppy.

The lady in charge was lovely. "Almost everything counts as explosives these
days," she chuckled. "Gardening tools, hand cream". I nodded sympathetically but
inside I was screaming: "HAND CREAM?" If hand cream is setting off the
explosives detector, perhaps the machine is not ideally suited to its task. Both
it and I were in danger of becoming a little oversensitive.

The double explosive test kicked in an automatic airport security alert. Sure
enough, within minutes I was escorted through the building by armed officers
from Special Branch. They took my name, scribbled down details and oddly
apologised, even though they were just scrupulously doing their job.

The Special Branch female officer asked me the purpose of travel. I told her
leisure - a half marathon. She was from the North, as I am: "Why aren't you
doing the Great North Run?" she asked, affronted. "Your colleague Sophie did."
She looked at me more suspiciously than at any time during the explosives
debacle. It was my turn to apologise. "Too hilly," I mumbled. And I promised to
consider it next year if she let me on to the plane before I missed it.

airport security

I seem to spend an awful lot of time in airport security. I don't mean I'm a
jetsetter: I mean I literally spend a long time in the security bit. Perhaps it
is my obsession with always travelling with only hand luggage. Perhaps I am just
unlucky. But increasingly, I think I am just normal.

And that's what worries me most. Because every time I see some poor mother made
to drink her own breast milk or some dad being told to throw away the last
centimetre of his screaming toddler's medicine because it comes in a 125ml
bottle, every time I look at the Warhol-like mountain of Nivea and water bottles
and the near nudity and the endless queues, I can't help wondering if we're
really getting this whole war on terror thing right.

And I know, because I have been told by a friend, that I risk sounding - what
was the lovely phrase? - "a bit of a twat" when I moan about something so
fundamental. So for the record, this is not a complaint about the folk at UK
Border Agency, who are encumbered by more and more regulations each time a
foiled plot hits the headlines.

It is not even a complaint about the millions BAA must be raking in through this
status quo, where people re-buy the shampoo they have just been made to throw
away (often in a bottle too large for them to bring back into the country a week
later).

It is a reflection - during some of my 40-minute stints by the X-ray machine -
on how many of the rituals we now intone before every flight are really
justified and effective. The ban on liquids, for example, was introduced
following the foiled 2006 airline bomb plot. It was policing genius that worked
out how a Lucozade bottle could be subtly turned from refreshing energiser into
a peroxide-based death trap. I am not joking when I say that discovery was
phenomenal.

The trouble is, terrorists adapt and iterate, as we do. The smart ones are
smart. This month reports suggest that the latest designer bomb can be
surgically placed inside the body. Don't tell me that's going to be foiled by
making me throw away the Colgate. Or the "spray-on bomb" that is aerosoled on to
a wet T-shirt and detonates when dry. To a terrorist, large drink bottles are
probably soooo 2006 - the zeitgeist equivalent of Larry and Sergei using a
typewriter.

In truth, some of the measures from the 2006 plot have now been tacitly
abandoned by some countries. I'm always surprised to see how much more relaxed
America - yes America, with its pit-bull immigration officers - is about its
carry-on system.

So I just want someone to explain to me whether we are clinging to these
measures out of superstition, or whether we are happy to keep adding and adding.
And more importantly, whether we are in danger of missing the next trick because
we are dwelling on the last. Because I remain to be convinced that the
achievements of our security services are down to  - whisper it quietly - making
everyone throw away their suncream.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2013 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 23, 2013 Friday 8:00 PM GMT

Terror police take on Bond and the Terminator;
Police officers are ever-vigilant when protecting the Houses of Parliament from
the threat of terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Sam Marsden and Olivia Goldhill

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 489 words


So when a boat carrying four notorious trained killers armed with guns was seen
speeding along the Thames towards Westminster, Scotland Yard's marine unit
sprung into action.

However, the security scare was quickly resolved when the officers discovered
that the suspects were in fact lookalikes of Daniel Craig, Arnold
Schwarzenegger, Angelina Jolie and Tom Cruise taking part in a PR stunt.

The actors had been hired to pose as James Bond, the Terminator, Lara Croft and
Mission: Impossible's Ethan Hunt to launch a new adrenaline-fuelled 40mph
jetboat ride along the Thames.

They were being filmed as they approached Westminster Pier when a concerned
member of the public spotted that they were carrying guns and called the police
to report a possible attack on Parliament.

Four officers from the Metropolitan Police's marine unit intercepted the
lookalikes as they disembarked, but rapidly realised that the weapons were just
toys.

Kyle Haughton, managing director of City Cruises, the firm running the new
Thamesjet speedboat rides, said it was "alarming" to see the policemen leap out
of their boat and run towards his group.

"Then I realised, 'Oh my God, we have people with guns, I can see what has
happened here' - but obviously, they were replica guns," he told the Evening
Standard.

"We were shooting our action movie on the Thames and somebody reported us to the
police, who were pretty relieved to see Lara Croft in all her elegance, and they
understood that this was just a PR stunt.

"With hindsight, we should have told the Port of London Authority, but I would
still have used the lookalikes because that worked really well."

A Scotland Yard spokesman said that Thursday's scare was triggered by a call
from a member of the public who was worried after seeing passengers in a boat on
the Thames carrying guns.

He added: "Police quickly established the people on board were taking part in a
promotional event.

"Officers spoke to the lookalikes and organiser, and gave them some advice. The
guns were toys, there were no arrests and the incident was resolved amicably."

The new Thamesjet has a 315 horsepower jet engine of the kind usually found on
military and police boats. It boasts the largest sound system on the river and
has on-board cameras which film the ride for passengers.

The real-life Daniel Craig famously sped down the Thames on an assault craft
flanked by Royal Marines when he was unveiled as the new James Bond in 2005.
However, he was unarmed and even took the precaution of wearing a lifejacket.

Earlier this month police in the United States nearly opened fire when they
mistook a film shoot for a real robbery.

A woman made an emergency call after seeing an armed masked gunman inside a café
in Los Angeles.

Eight officers pointed their weapons at the university filmmakers shooting the
scene and came close to firing when one of the actors failed to drop his fake
handgun despite being challenged.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 23, 2013 Friday 3:00 PM GMT

Police mistake celebrity lookalikes for terrorists;
Armed police intercepted a river Thames speedboat they feared was about to
launch terrorist attack on Parliament - only to find it contained Angelina
Jolie, Daniel Craig and Arnold Schwarzenegger lookalikes.

BYLINE: By Olivia Goldhill

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 286 words


The actors were posing with toy guns in a publicity stunt for Thamesjet
speedboat ride, which will allow passengers to speed along the river Thames in a
jet-engine boat.

But as the boat approached Westminster Pier, a concerned member of the public
called the police when they were alarmed to see guns on board and feared the
crew were planning an attack on Parliament.

Four police officers from the Met's marine unit intercepted the famous
lookalikes by boat as they disembarked at the pier, but quickly discovered that
the guns were toys, according to the Evening Standard .

Kyle Haughton, managing director of City Cruises, the company behind the
speedboat rides, said: "It was a bit alarming to see four policemen jump out of
a boat pretty quickly and run towards us.

"And then I realised, 'Oh my God, we have people with guns, I can see what has
happened here' - but obviously, they were replica guns.

"We were shooting our action movie on the Thames and somebody reported us to the
police, who were pretty relieved to see Lara Croft in all her elegance, and they
understood that this was just a PR stunt.

"With hindsight, we should have told the Port of London Authority but I would
still have used the lookalikes because that worked really well."

The Met confirmed details of the incident and said the incident was quickly
resolved.

A spokesperson said a member of the public called in "concerned they had seen
people on a boat on the river carrying guns."

The Met said: "Police quickly established the people on board were taking part
in a promotional event. Officers spoke to the lookalikes and organiser and gave
them some advice. The guns were toys, there were no arrests and the incident was
resolved amicably."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 25, 2013 Sunday

Death toll of Lebanon's "terrorist" attack rises to 45

LENGTH: 121 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese Hezbollah Al-Manar TV website on 25 August

The Lebanese National News Agency reported Saturday [24 August] that the death
toll of Tripoli terrorist blast exceeded 45 martyrs.

"Bodies are found in the Islamic Hospital, Molla Hospital, Mazloum Hospital,
Assalam and Nini Hospital and the governmental hospital, in addition to more
than 160 wounded people in critical condition.

The NNA noted that most of the around 500 wounded were minor injuries, who have
received treatment and left the hospital.

Tripoli's powerful car bombs, minutes apart, targeted two Mosques as worshippers
were filing out after the weekly prayers.

Source: Al-Manar Television website, Beirut, in English 0720 gmt 25 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 26, 2013 Monday

Eight arrested in Egypt's North Sinai over "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 69 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA website

Al-Arish, Egypt, 18 August: Eight people, including four Palestinians, were
arrested in North Sinai on Sunday [25 August] on suspicion that they are
involved in the peninsula's recent terrorist attacks.

All the suspects were referred to the public prosecution, a security source told
MENA.

Source: MENA news agency website, Cairo, in English 2224gmt 25 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 26, 2013 Monday

Turkish premier offers condolences to Lebanese counterpart over terror attacks

LENGTH: 481 words


Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also
known as Anatolia)

[Unattributed report: "Erdogan expresses condolence to Lebanese PM for terror
victims"]

Turkish Prime Minister thanked Lebanese PM, for the efforts on the kidnapped
Turkish pilots and stressed their release in the shortest period is of critical
importance, during a telephone call

ANKARA (AA) - Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan held a telephone call
with Lebanese Prime Minister Najib Mikati, in which he expressed his condolences
for the deceased who died due to the recent terror attacks in Lebanon.

The peace and stability of Lebanon played a key role for the whole region,
Erdogan said. He added that the Lebanese people, without making a divison based
on religion or sect, were sisters and brothers to Turkey, according to prime
ministry sources.

During the call, the two leaders also spoke about the 2 Turkish pilots who were
kidnapped in Lebanon and have been held hostage for 16 days.

Thanking Mikati for the efforts to save the pilots, Erdogan stressed that the
release of the pilots within the shortest time was of critical importance for
Turkey.

Gunmen abducted a Turkish pilot Murat Akpinar and his assistant Murat Agca on
August 9, 2013 in Lebanon's Beirut city.

A shuttle carrying the pilot, the assistant pilot, and the crew was stopped by
four gunmen on the way from the airport to the hotel.

The gunmen abducted the pilots but released the crew.

Turkish Airlines (THY) had sent a 6 person team to bring the crew back to Turkey
from Lebanon.

A group calling itself 'Zuwwar Imam al-Rida' (visitors of Imam al-Rida) has
claimed responsibility for the abduction, demanding that Turkey talk with the
Syrian opposition to secure the release of nine Lebanese nationals kidnapped in
Syria in May 2012.

Lebanon's Domestic Intelligence Unit announced on August 13 that the identities
and locations of the kidnappers of the Turkish pilots had been determined.

The Unit said that the prime suspect was Ali Jamil Saleh, whose father was among
those previously abducted in Syria by anti-Assad groups.

Stating that the kidnapping was pre-planned, authorities claimed that the pilots
were kept in the south of Lebanon.

Lebanese Court of Appeals Chief Prosecutor Claude Karam said on August 18 that
they had found further connections regarding the 2 Turkish pilots.

On August 19, the pilots were claimed to have been located, with the pilot
allegedly being held in a district of Baalbek city in east Lebanon, while the
co-pilot was reportedly kept in Zavter, in the country's south.

Two days later, a Lebanese court filed a lawsuit against 13 of the family
members of the nine Lebanese nationals -  who had been abducted in Syria's Aazaz
city in May 2012 -  in connection with the kidnapping of the pilots.

Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency, Ankara, in English 0808
gmt 26 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 26, 2013 Monday

Syrian governor killed in "terrorist" car bomb attack in Hama City - Website

LENGTH: 383 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Terrorists assassinate Hama governor with car bomb" - SANA headline]

Hama, (SANA) _The Cabinet announced on Sunday that Hama governor, Dr Anas
Abdul-Razzaq Na'em was martyred in a terrorist car bomb in al-Jarajmeh
neighbourhood in Hama city.

SANA reporter quoted a source at the Police Command that terrorists detonated
the car bomb as the governor's convoy was passing by in al-Jarajmeh residential
neighbourhood in Hama city. The governor was martyred and 7 citizens injured,
among them 3 children, in the blast.

Dr Na'em held a postgraduate degree in Internal Medicine from the Faculty of
Medicine at Damascus University and was professor of Internal and Thoracic
Medicine at the Faculty of Medicine in Damascus University.

He was appointed governor of Hama on July 10, 2011 and served as secretary of
al-Baath Party branch and the Doctors' Syndicate chief in Hama.

People's Assembly condemns assassination of Hama governor by takfiri terrorists

The People's Assembly condemned with the strongest terms the assassination of
Hama Governor, Dr Anas Na'em, by the armed terrorist groups and the takfiri
mercenaries.

In a statement made on Sunday, the Assembly stressed that martyr Na'em, along
with all the military and civilian martyrs, will contribute to making a brighter
future for Syria.

The Assembly stressed that the assassination aims at terrorizing the Syrians and
dissuade them from carrying out their national duties, adding that the
retaliation of the terrorist attack will be exerting more efforts to eradicate
terrorism and its tools from the country.

The statement hailed the steadfastness of the Syrian people, calling them to
exert more effort in cooperating with the state institutions to reveal the
terrorist cells as to clear the homeland of those mercenaries who are brought by
the western colonization power and its regional tools to destroy Syria and
control its national decisions.

The Assembly offered sincerest condolences to the family of Martyr Na'em and the
families of all martyrs, stressing that the road to victory is paved by the
blood of the martyrs, the determination of the people and the sacrifices of the
brave Syrian soldiers.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0000 gmt 26 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       August 26, 2013 Monday 7:33 PM GMT

Syria: UN weapons inspectors attacked as they try to reach site of alleged
poison gas attack;
Damascus blames 'terrorists' for attack on team trying to get to site of alleged
chemical weapon attack after they say they were 'deliberately shot at multiple
times'

BYLINE: Oliver Wright

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 956 words


Syria has insisted rebel forces were responsible for an attack in which a team
of UN inspectors came under fire while trying to enter the site of an alleged
gas attack.

Syrian state television claimed an information ministry source had said the
international experts were shot at by "terrorists", a term it commonly uses to
describe rebels trying to topple Bashar al-Assad.

"The Syrian government will hold the armed terrorist groups responsible for the
safety of the members of the United Nations team," the source added, according
to state television.

Syria had agreed to let UN inspectors visit the scene of the violence, which the
charity Médecins Sans Frontières said had killed around 350 people and left
3,600 needing treatment for "neurotoxic symptoms".

The team had reportedly arrived in Moadamiyeh, a western suburb of Damascus and
one of the areas where the alleged gas attack occurred. They were meeting with
doctors and victims at a makeshift hospital when they came under fire.

Martin Nesirky, a spokesman for the UN secretary-general Ban Ki-moon, said the
vehicle was "deliberately shot at multiple times" in the buffer zone area
between rebel- and government-controlled territory, adding that the team was
safe.

Western countries, including Britain, are planning to take unilateral military
action against the Assad regime within two weeks in retaliation for its alleged
use of chemical weapons on civilians in Syria.

David Cameron discussed launching missile strikes against key regime targets
during a 40-minute telephone call with Barack Obama on Saturday night and also
with the French President François Hollande on Sunday. While Downing Street said
western powers had not ruled out seeking UN endorsement for military action they
added that they were also prepared to unilaterally.

"We cannot in the 21st century allow the idea that chemical weapons can be used
with impunity and there are no consequences," the foreign secretary, William
Hague said. A Downing Street source added: "We intend to show that an attack of
this nature will not pass without a serious response."

Mr Cameron is expected to cut short his holiday in Cornwall and return to London
to chair a meeting of the Government's National Security Council on Tuesday.

Mr Cameron may hope that the limited nature of the planned response may help him
avoid having to hold a pre-emptive vote on military action in Parliament, where
he could face strong opposition not just from Labour but also his own
backbenches who are concerned about the UK being increasing dragged into yet
another Middle Eastern conflict.

A Downing Street spokesman said that Mr Cameron had "always been clear that MPs
should have a chance to debate this type of issue" but he added: "He reserves
the right for the Government to act and respond."

However Douglas Alexander MP, Labour's shadow Foreign Secretary said: "If the
Prime Minister is now considering military options involving UK personnel then
of course I would expect him to seek a recall of Parliament and to come to the
House of Commons."

Any military action is likely to take the form of missile strikes from US naval
forces in the region, which were ordered to move closer to Syria on Saturday.

The new head of the UK armed forces, General Sir Nick Houghton is meeting with
General Lloyd Austin, the US commander in the Middle East in Jordan. The pair
are attending a pre-planned meeting of defence chiefs but are expected to
discuss the planned action and possible targets "at the fringes" of the
conference.

Government sources said it was too early to say whether British military
personnel would take part in any of the attacks but would provide complete
political support.

The western response it unlikely to be long lasting and is expected to consist
of limited air strikes on key targets. It will allow Mr Obama to insist that
America is capable and willing to take action over the use of chemical weapons
which last year he described as a "red line" for the administration.

However, there are fears that any strike could lead to retaliation or terrorist
attacks in the region either from Syria or its Iranian supporters. It is also
likely to lead to condemnation from Russia and make any internationally brokered
settlement that much harder. Significantly the Government said discussions with
Russia over the response to the chemical weapons attack had so far only been at
a "senior official" level.

A Downing Street source said that Mr Cameron would speak again to the US
President and would also be engaging with other key European allies. It said:
"If the Assad regime were innocent they wouldn't have stopped UN inspectors from
coming and they would have stopped shelling the area.

"Therefore we are into a scenario of, not has there been an incident and does
the international community need to respond, but how should the international
community respond? This is where our focus now is.

"The aim here is to have a clear, concrete response from the international
community that deters further outrages and makes clear that we will stand up to
the prohibition of chemical weapons. We need to show that their use will not go
unchecked."

Asked about getting a UN mandate from military action, it said: "We are not
excluding the UN route and we will keep engaging with UN partners and working
the diplomatic machine. But we do not want the regime or its allies to use the
UN to drag this all out. An attack of this nature passes without a serious
response."

It added that any attack would not be intended to sway the military balance
between Assad forces and they Syrian opposition. "This is not about trying to
shape the outcome of the Syrian conflict by military means. This is focused on
the incident that happened on Wednesday."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2013 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     August 28, 2013 Wednesday 11:58 PM GMT

Missile strikes may lead to terror attacks on UK, warn military experts:
Commanders warn of 'unintended consequences' of ill-thought-out campaign against
Assad

BYLINE: IAN DRURY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1196 words



     ·    They cautioned could provoke revenge attacks home and abroad
     ·    Also emerged Israel was taking precautions against possible Syrian
          attack
     ·    They include bolstering missile defences and handing out gas masks


Britain risks sleep-walking into a full-scale war by launching missile strikes
against Syria, former top brass warned last night.

Retired commanders cautioned that an ill-thought-out attack against President
Assad's brutal regime could provoke revenge attacks at home and abroad.

Lord West of Spithead, a former First Sea Lord, General Lord Dannatt, a former
head of the British Army, and Major General , a commander during the first Gulf
War, all warned of the 'unintended consequences' of a military campaign.

It also emerged that Israel was taking precautions against a possible Syrian
attack, including bolstering missile defences and handing out gas masks to
civilians.

A coalition spearheaded by the US, Britain and France is preparing to punish
Assad for allegedly gassing to death hundreds of innocent people last week.

Defence chiefs favour a strike against important military installations,
including airbases, arms dumps and communications hubs, using long-range cruise
missiles fired from warships or submarines amassing in the Mediterranean.

The hope is that the attacks will deter Assad from using chemical weapons and
make it more difficult for him to launch them in future.

But military grandees fear David Cameron and his allies might unwittingly
escalate Syria's civil war into a regional conflict in the Middle East, or even
a proxy Cold War with Damascus's key ally, Russia.

Assad might also be goaded into retaliating against UK bases in Cyprus. And a
missile strike might encourage extremists to bring bloodshed to the streets of
Britain.

Lord West, a former head of the Navy, said ministers should try to get Russia
and China to agree to condemn Assad's chemical attacks in a UN Security Council
Resolution.

He said: 'We are moving inextricably towards military action. A strike might be
a rap across the knuckles for Assad but will that be enough to make him stop? I
have have very severe doubts.

'If he is deranged enough to have used chemical weapons on his own people, which
is a loathsome thing, what is he likely to do if we strike against key targets
in Syria?

'He might do something as mad as fire ballistic missiles against the air base in
Cyprus. That then becomes an attack on a Nato ally, an attack on British
sovereign territory, and that means war, doesn't it?'

He added: 'Politicians think they can control these things, but once you embark
on military operations you cannot predict what will happen.

'We need to be very clear on our game plan - what, at the end, is going to make
our nation and the globe more secure, and ideally help the Syrian people.'

Of any military strike's consequences, Lord West said: 'Iran has said if
anything happened it would unleash terrorist attacks, so you might have some
reprisals here.'

Lord Dannatt questioned the legality and purpose of the proposed military
strike, describing the plans as inappropriate.

He said Assad's probable use of chemical weapons, however wrong, did 'not
constitute an open invitation for the international community to impose
themselves on the internal affairs of another country.'

The general, who headed the British intervention in Kosovo in 1999, said an
intervention could result in 'fuelling the conflict and making it worse'.

Q&A: WOULD A MILITARY STRIKE ON SYRIA BE LEGAL?

Would bombing Syria be lawful?

Britain and the US insist it would be, but the truth is far from clear. It's
hard to see how Syria's reported chemical attacks against its own citizens
present a direct threat to either country.

What specific laws or UN conventions might be used as justification?

The UN Charter allows for military action on only two grounds - in self-defence,
or if action is approved by the UN Security Council. Neither applies here.

Russia has made clear its intention to veto any proposed Security Council
resolution authorising action - as has China.

Can a military strike be legal without a UN resolution?

Unclear. In 1999, the Nato bombing campaign against Serbia was launched without
one, with Tony Blair and President Clinton seeking to justify it on humanitarian
grounds to protect Kosovan civilians.

The intervention was widely welcomed, but its legality was questionable. A
similar humanitarian argument is being used to defend intervention in Syria.

If President Assad is proved to have launched poison gas attacks on his own
people, he will be in breach of the Geneva Gas Protocol, an international
agreement dating back to 1925 - to which Syria is a signatory - banning the use
of chemical weapons.

But breaching the protocol doesn't provide a clear justification for military
action and it normally applies to international conflicts, rather than civil
wars.

Does the UN have a 'Responsibility to Protect' the Syrians?

In 2005, following the hideous atrocities committed in Rwanda and Bosnia in the
1990s, the UN brought forward an initiative called the 'Responsibility to
Protect'.

It was designed to protect the innocent from genocide, war crimes and ethnic
cleansing and places a duty on individual states to prevent such horrors within
their borders, and an obligation to intervene if they see it elsewhere.

But former UN assistant Secretary-General, Francesc Vendrell, says the doctrine
does not necessarily justify the use of force.

All diplomatic efforts must have been tried first, and even then military
intervention requires the backing of the Security Council - taking David Cameron
and President Obama back to square one.

Does the PM need Parliamentary backing for a bombing campaign?

Technically, no. He retains the power, under Royal Prerogative, to use military
force without Parliamentary approval.

However, all recent major military interventions - including the wars in Iraq
and Libya  - have been preceded by a Commons vote. The Government has made clear
it will 'respect the outcome' of tonight's.

General Cordingley, who led the Desert Rats during the liberation of Kuwait,
said: 'There is a danger Assad will retaliate against us. More widely, yet again
people in the Arab world will say the West is dropping more bombs on the Middle
East.

'It might not heighten the threat of terrorism at home, but it certainly will do
nothing to reduce it.'

Syrian prime minister Wael al-Halqi responded to the threat of military
intervention by warning his war-torn country would become a 'graveyard of the
invaders'.

And a Syrian army officer has claimed Assad could use kamikaze pilots to combat
Western forces.

The unnamed officer told the Guardian that, in the event of an attack by the US
and Britain, the Syrian army had 8,000 'suicide martyrs' who would give their
lives to bring down warplanes.

'I myself am ready to blow myself up against US aircraft carriers to stop them
attacking Syria and its people,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     August 28, 2013 Wednesday 6:07 PM BST

CHEMICAL ATTACK 'BY TERRORISTS'

BYLINE: Jennifer Cockerell, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 385 words


The Syrian ambassador to the United Nations has claimed that the chemical
attacks in Damascus were carried out by terrorist groups, and not by Bashar
Assad's regime.

Bashar Jaafari told a news conference at the UN in New York that the country's
own soldiers had been infected by inhaling the poisonous gas, believed to be
sarin.

He said he had sent a letter of request from the Syrian government to the UN
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon to investigate the ``heinous attacks'', after
already sending more than 400 others about the crisis.

Mr Jaafari said the government wanted the UN to investigate ``three heinous
incidents that took place in the countryside of Damascus on the 22, 24 and 25
(August) where members of the army inhaled poisonous gas as a result of the use
by the terrorist armed groups of chemical agents, close to what we call the
nerve gas sarin.''

He added: ``Dozens of Syrian soldiers are currently treated in the Syrian
hospitals in view to this use of chemical agents by the terrorist armed groups
operating in the countryside of Damascus.

``So the Syrian government is requesting the Secretary General to immediately
instruct the investigating team operating now in Damascus to investigate
immediately these three heinous crimes.

``This letter - this last letter - comes after 419 other letters addressed to
the Secretary General and the members of the Security Council since the
beginning of the crisis in Syria, which means we addressed so far 420 letters
describing all the details related to all the developments pertaining to the
Syrian crisis.

``So there is no excuse whatsoever to anybody in the council or in the
secretariat, to say that they are not aware of what's going on in Syria.

``We did our best to inform everybody about all the details related to this
situation - I am in your hands.''

Mr Jaafari denied there had been a five-day delay between the request to visit
the site of last week's attack.

``There were no delay whatsoever, and she was granted access to the locations
she wanted to visit.

``You may be aware, a long time ago, a couple of very important information was
spread all over the media and nobody spoke about it, but we conveyed it
officially speaking in official letters, I was referring to, to the secretary
general as well as to the members of the Security Council.''

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2013 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            August 29, 2013 Thursday

MISSILE STRIKES MAY LEAD TO TERROR ATTACKS ON UK, WARN MILITARY EXPERTS

BYLINE: BY IAN DRURY DEFENCE CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 699 words


BRITAIN risks sleep-walking into a full-scale war by launching missile strikes
against Syria, former top brass warned last night.

Retired commanders cautioned that an ill-thought-out attack against President
Assad's brutal regime could provoke revenge attacks at home and abroad.

Lord West of Spithead, a former First Sea Lord, General Lord Dannatt, a former
head of the British Army, and Major General Patrick Cordingley, a commander
during the first Gulf War, all warned of the unintended consequences' of a
military campaign.

It also emerged that Israel was taking precautions against a possible Syrian
attack, including bolstering missile defences and handing out gas masks to
civilians.

A coalition spearheaded by the US, Britain and France is preparing to punish
Assad for allegedly gassing to death hundreds of innocent people last week.

Defence chiefs favour a strike against important military installations,
including airbases, arms dumps and communications hubs, using long-range cruise
missiles fired from warships or submarines amassing in the Mediterranean. The
hope is that the attacks will deter Assad from using chemical weapons and make
it more difficult for him to launch them in future.

But military grandees fear David Cameron and his allies might unwittingly
escalate Syria's civil war into a regional conflict in the Middle East, or even
a proxy Cold War with Damascus's key ally, Russia.

Assad might also be goaded into retaliating against UK bases in Cyprus. And a
missile strike might encourage extremists to bring bloodshed to the streets of
Britain.

Lord West, a former head of the Navy, said ministers should try to get Russia
and China to agree to condemn Assad's chemical attacks in a UN Security Council
Resolution. He said: We are moving inextricably towards military action. A
strike might be a rap across the knuckles for Assad but will that be enough to
make him stop? I have have very severe doubts.

If he is deranged enough to have used chemical weapons on his own people, which
is a loathsome thing, what is he likely to do if we strike against key targets
in Syria?

He might do something as mad as fire ballistic missiles against the air base in
Cyprus. That then becomes an attack on a Nato ally, an attack on British
sovereign territory, and that means war, doesn't it?'

He added: Politicians think they can control these things, but once you embark
on military operations you cannot predict what will happen. We need to be very
clear on our game plan - what, at the end, is going to make our nation and the
globe more secure, and ideally help the Syrian people.' Of any military strike's
consequences, Lord West said: Iran has warned they would unleash terrorist
attacks. It would be seen as the good old infidels beating up the Muslim world
again and that could bring problems.'

Lord Dannatt questioned the legality and purpose of the proposed military
strike, describing the plans as inappropriate.

He said Assad's probable use of chemical weapons, however wrong, did not
constitute an open invitation for the international community to impose
themselves on the internal affairs of another country.' The general, who headed
the British intervention in Kosovo in 1999, said an intervention could result in
fuelling the conflict and making it worse'.

General Cordingley, who led the Desert Rats during the liberation of Kuwait,
said: There is a danger Assad will retaliate against us. More widely, yet again
people in the Arab world will say the West is dropping more bombs on the Middle
East. It might not heighten the threat of terrorism at home, but it certainly
will do nothing to reduce it.' Syrian prime minister Wael al-Halqi responded to
the threat of military intervention by warning his war-torn country would become
a graveyard of the invaders'.

Meanwhile, Israel ordered a small-scale mobilisation of reservists yesterday,
and strengthened its missile defences as precautions against possible
retaliations, should Western powers carry out the threatened strikes. The
country has provided citizens with equipment to cope with chemical or biological
attacks since the first Gulf War. It said orders from the public had quadrupled
in recent days.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            August 29, 2013 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Scot tells of fears of terrorist attack at Olympics

BYLINE: BRIDGET MORRIS

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 259 words


The Scot who will lead Team GB in the Sochi Winter Olympics has spoken of his
fears that athletes will be targeted by extremists.

Chef de Mission Mike Hay said he will be taking advice from people on the ground
in order to protect his stars before February's event.

The event is dogged by two controversies, firstly the passing of draconian
anti-gay laws and secondly, growing fears of attacks by the Caucasus Emirate and
Russian Islamist terror group.

Mr Hay's comments during an event at the Braehead Arena near Glasgow came as the
all-Scottish world champion women's curling rink of Eve Muirhead, Claire
Hamilton, Vicki Adams and Anna Sloan were named as the first members of the
squad.

He said: "I heard something this morning about the Caucasus mountains that
somebody had been killed and you hear a lot of these stories, and a lot of it
just happens all the time in these places so I don't think we should be unduly
worried.

"But at the same time we'll be taking advice from the people who are there and
they'll let us know if there is a direct threat to Team GB athletes. We are
concerned, of course we are, but ultimately there are a lot of mixed messages
coming out of Russia at the moment."

He added that Team GB was working closely with the Foreign Office and the
International Olympic Committee in an attempt to understand the situation
better.

He added that while the principal responsibility for protecting those attending
the Games lies with the Russians the British Olympic Association is taking all
the precautions it can to safeguard athletes.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2013 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     August 29, 2013 Thursday 11:32 AM GMT

Attacking Syria may lead to missile strikes, cyber warfare and terror attacks on
US soil, warn military experts

BYLINE: REUTERS REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1380 words



     ·    They cautioned could provoke revenge attacks home and abroad
     ·    Confident that Israel and allies in region could deter immediate
          response


A US attack on Syria could provoke reprisals ranging from missile strikes to
terrorist attacks and cyberwar, according to government officials and private
analysts.

US military commanders are preparing contingency plans for a potential
counter-strike by Syria's military, defense officials have revealed.

The officials expressed confidence that the United States and U.S. regional
allies such as Israel could deter or neutralize an immediate response from
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

A European defense official said the purpose of building up large forces near
Syria - mostly in the form of naval assets - was to deter Assad.

'The important thing is to have enough force to control the escalatory
response,' said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity.

Even so, 'there is no military action without risk, and a punitive strike on
Syrian regime forces would carry some. Weapons could hit unintended targets,
perhaps killing civilians,' Jeffrey White of the Washington Institute for Near
East Policy think tank wrote this week.

'The regime could strike back in unexpected ways against U.S. and allied
interests, or it could resort to further (chemical weapons) attacks inside
Syria.'

Syria and its close regional ally, Iran, both are widely believed to have
ballistic missiles capable of reaching Israel and other U.S. allies nearby, such
as Turkey and Jordan.

Hezbollah, the Shi'ite militia backed by Tehran and fighting on Assad's side in
Syria, has tens of thousands of short-range rockets in southern Lebanon, near
Israel's border.

Many analysts predict that Syria and its allies will avoid a direct conflict
with the United States and opt instead for an 'asymmetric response' aimed at
Western vulnerabilities - terror or cyber attacks, for example.

Assad also could opt not to respond to a strike, hoping to wait out the US and
allied military threat.

A US official with experience in the Middle East said that Washington also is
concerned that Iran could turn up the heat in Iraq. So far, resurgent violence
by Sunni militants there has not been answered with retaliation from Shi'ite
militias with ties to Tehran.

There are still militias in Iraq 'that would respond most likely if the Iranians
put pressure on them,' said the official, who is not authorized to comment
publicly on the matter. 'It's something that's of concern, and something that's
on everybody's minds.'

The potential for retaliation by Syria or its allies is among the growing
concerns in the U.S. Congress and elsewhere about President Barack Obama's moves
toward launching missile strikes against Syria in light of its apparent use of
chemical weapons against civilians outside Damascus on August 21.

Some lawmakers and analysts say they worry that Washington could be sucked into
Syria's 2-1/2-year-old civil war - something Obama has long resisted. Others
argue that a few volleys of missiles aimed at Syrian military facilities would
have little effect, and might even embolden Assad.

'It is vital we avoid shortsighted military action that would have little impact
on the long-term trajectory of the conflict. We can't simply launch a few
missiles and hope for the best,' Senator James Inhofe, the top Republican on the
Senate Armed Services Committee, said on Wednesday.

How Syria itself will respond will be key, although many analysts expect Assad
initially will simply absorb any strikes as long as they do not appear intended
to decapitate his government.

'I think the calculation will be, "Let's just hunker down, take what we think
will be a limited series of strikes and then just live to fight another day,'"
said Shawn Brimley of the Center for a New American Security.

'I'd be surprised if Assad tried to respond because that would just further draw
the United States into an engagement,' said Brimley, who recently served on
Obama's National Security Council staff.

'He probably has the calculation that if the United States becomes decisively
engaged that he's unlikely to survive.'

Iran's military chief of staff, Hassan Firouzabadi, was quoted by a state-run
Iranian news agency on Wednesday as promising that 'any attack on Syria would
burn down Israel'.

But Iran seems unlikely to directly attack Israel, which almost certainly would
deliver a robust military response.

And Iran's newly inaugurated president, Hassan Rouhani, took office promising to
improve Tehran's foreign relations.

Iran could turn to Hezbollah, however, to accomplish its goals.

Q&A: WOULD A MILITARY STRIKE ON SYRIA BE LEGAL?

Would bombing Syria be lawful?

Britain and the US insist it would be, but the truth is far from clear. It's
hard to see how Syria's reported chemical attacks against its own citizens
present a direct threat to either country.

What specific laws or UN conventions might be used as justification?

The UN Charter allows for military action on only two grounds - in self-defence,
or if action is approved by the UN Security Council. Neither applies here.

Russia has made clear its intention to veto any proposed Security Council
resolution authorising action - as has China.

Can a military strike be legal without a UN resolution?

Unclear. In 1999, the Nato bombing campaign against Serbia was launched without
one, with Tony Blair and President Clinton seeking to justify it on humanitarian
grounds to protect Kosovan civilians.

The intervention was widely welcomed, but its legality was questionable. A
similar humanitarian argument is being used to defend intervention in Syria.

If President Assad is proved to have launched poison gas attacks on his own
people, he will be in breach of the Geneva Gas Protocol, an international
agreement dating back to 1925 - to which Syria is a signatory - banning the use
of chemical weapons.

But breaching the protocol doesn't provide a clear justification for military
action and it normally applies to international conflicts, rather than civil
wars.

Does the UN have a 'Responsibility to Protect' the Syrians?

In 2005, following the hideous atrocities committed in Rwanda and Bosnia in the
1990s, the UN brought forward an initiative called the 'Responsibility to
Protect'.

It was designed to protect the innocent from genocide, war crimes and ethnic
cleansing and places a duty on individual states to prevent such horrors within
their borders, and an obligation to intervene if they see it elsewhere.

But former UN assistant Secretary-General, Francesc Vendrell, says the doctrine
does not necessarily justify the use of force.

All diplomatic efforts must have been tried first, and even then military
intervention requires the backing of the Security Council - taking David Cameron
and President Obama back to square one.

'A Hezbollah attack on Israel is likely, and in fact some are speculating about
yet another Hezbollah-Israeli war in Lebanon,' said Hayat Alvi, a lecturer in
Middle East studies at the U.S. Naval War College.

'Iran and Syria can target coalition cyber-based infrastructure and other
potential targets,' Alvi added. 'They prove to be quite capable in that domain.'

A pro-Hezbollah religious leader, Sheikh Afif Nabulsi, warned on Tuesday that a
U.S. strike on Syria 'would be met by harsh responses against U.S. interests in
the region and against Israel directly,' according to Lebanon's Daily Star
newspaper.

Yet Hezbollah's calculations might be complex too.

The group has sent thousands of fighters into Syria to help Assad quash mostly
Sunni rebels, stretching its capabilities and sparking apparent attacks against
it by Sunnis back in Lebanon.

'Hezbollah may say, "Actually, I don't want to get sucked in further over
Assad's poor decision to use chemical weapons,'" said Matthew Levitt, author of
a book on Hezbollah that is due to be released next week.

Iran, Syria and Hezbollah 'are all inclined to do the asymmetric thing,' Levitt
said.

Hezbollah's most likely response, he said, will be to tell operatives already in
the field who are planning violent attacks 'to speed up'.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            August 29, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Children shot dead in their beds as terror attacks kill 71

BYLINE: PAUL KEOGH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 274 words


THREE children were killed in their beds during a wave of bloodshed that left at
least 71 people dead and 201 wounded in Iraq.

The Shia youngsters, aged eight to 12, were shot along with their parents and
two uncles by gunmen who raided their home in the Sunni town of Latifiyah.

The slaughter, about 30km (20 miles) south of Baghdad, came as a series of
bombings in the capital killed people during the morning rush hour.

The blasts bore the hallmarks of the Iraqi branch of al-Qaeda. The group
frequently targets what it considers to be the heretical Shia community and
employs coordinated bombings in an attempt to incite sectarian strife.

The Kazimiyah neighbourhood - home to a gold-domed Shia shrine - was worst hit
as the country's biggest spate of killings since 2008 continued.

Two blasts erupted in the district in quick succession before a suicide car
bomber ploughed into onlookers who had gathered at the scene. Ten people were
killed and 27 wounded.

Meanwhile, two car bombs killed seven people in the Sadr City area, where a
restaurant owner said he suspected a visiting stranger of planting them.

'A man parked his car in front of the restaurant,' he said. 'He got breakfast
and drank his tea. Then I heard a huge explosion when I was in the kitchen.'

The twisted wreckage of vehicles littered pavements while shop owners brushed
away the debris. At one restaurant, the floor was stained with blood and dishes
scattered on plastic tables.

The violence, fuelled by Sunni resentment of the Shia-led government, raises
fears that Iraq is hurtling back towards the brink of a civil war. More than 500
people have been killed so far in August.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Aftermath: Car used in blasts
PICTURE: AFP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 29, 2013 Thursday 7:58 AM GMT

Barack Obama warns of Syria chemical weapons threat to US;
President Obama raises the spectre of weapons of mass destruction falling into
the hands of terrorists bent on attacking the US, and says "hardly anybody"
disputes that the regime of Bashar Al-Assad deployed chemical weapons against
civilian populations.

LENGTH: 420 words


Barack Obama                      argued that Syria's alleged use of chemical
weapons not only violated international norms but threatened America, as he
hardened the US position on the alleged used of chemical weapons by the regime
of Bashar Al-Assad.

"When you start talking about chemical weapons, in a country that has the
largest stockpile of chemical weapons in the world, where over time their
control of chemical weapons may erode, where they're allied to known terrorist
organisations, that in the past have targeted the United States, then there is a
prospect, a possibility in which chemical weapons, that can have devastating
effects, could be directed at us and we want to make sure that that does not
happen," he said.

He also declared unequivocally that the United States has "concluded" that the
Syrian government carried out a deadly chemical weapons attack on civilians last
week.

Mr Obama did not present any direct evidence to back up his assertions.

He said he is still evaluating possible military options in retaliation for the
attack that allegedly killed hundreds near Damascus, but vowed that any American
response would send a "strong signal" to Syrian President Bashar Al-Assad.

The Syrian regime has denied using chemical weapons on its own civilians last
week.

"We have concluded that the Syrian government in fact carried these out," the US
President said during an interview with PBS' NewsHour. "And if that's so, then
there need to be international consequences."

Mr Obama said he was not seeking a lengthy, open-ended conflict in Syria,
indicating that any US response would be limited in scope.

Laying out a legal justification for a US response, he said Syria was violating
the Geneva Protocols, an agreement signed in 1925 in the wake of World War I to
ban the use of chemical gases.

The White House has also cited the Chemical Weapons Convention, a 1992 agreement
that builds on the Geneva Protocols by prohibiting the development and
stockpiling of chemical weapons.

Syria is a party to the original Geneva accord, but not the latter chemical
weapons agreement.

Moreover, Syria's UN ambassador, Bashar Ja'afari, is demanding that United
Nations experts investigate three alleged chemical weapons attacks against
Syrian soldiers.

He said the attacks occurred on August 22, 24 and 25 in three suburbs of the
Syrian capital and dozens of soldiers are being treated for inhaling nerve gas.

Source: APTN

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 30, 2013 Friday

Moroccan `terror' cell planned to attack foreign targets, says paper

LENGTH: 935 words


Text of report signed by M.S. entitled: "Terrorist cell planned to make car
bombs and explosives; its seven members have been trained on the use of
anti-aircraft and anti-tank weapons," published by Moroccan privately-owned
newspaper Assabah website on 30 August

Members of the [terrorist] cell dismantled by the security services early in the
third week of August, has reached seven. They were active in the towns of
Tiznit, Fes, Meknes, Taounet, Outat El Haj and Casablanca, and they have been
sent to jail by the investigating judge in charge of terrorism-related cases at
the Rabat court of appeal, pending their detailed hearings about the serious
crimes attributed to them.

Sources familiar with the investigations of these detainees said that the
members of the cell have a high level of education, including three Islamic
education teachers, two English literature university students, a psychology
student, and an Islamic studies graduate.

Investigations of the accused have led to the confiscation of documents related
to jihadist thinking, which clarify possible ways of joining the camps of the
Al-Qa'idah in the Lands of the Islamic Maghreb [AQLIM] in northern Mali.
Evidence has also been seized, including a weapons encyclopaedia published in
Afghanistan which shows different ways of getting or making weapons and
ammunitions, as well as techniques to use them, including anti-aircraft and
anti-tank weapons.

Seized objects include also publications, namely a guide of military
instructions to combatants, and another about techniques to fight espionage, and
about monitoring, hiding, killing, kidnapping, making letters bombs,
psychological warfare, and protecting people and places, making toxic substances
and bombs. During the search of the places of residence of the arrested people,
a book was found about guerrilla warfare, kidnapping techniques, and
assassination training.

The security services have also confiscated a publication about various ways of
communicating with the so-called AQLIM through coded messages, and a book, with
illustrations about how to make explosive substances. The security services also
found video and audio tapes making the apology of jihad, including a recording
by Abdelmalek Droukdal, alias Abu Mus'ab Abd-al-Wadud, emir of the AQLIM, which
was broadcast through the media of the same organisation.

The investigations that have been conducted indicated also that the detainees
had joined jihad action in 2010, and strived to form cells to recruit and
mobilise individuals with a jihadist leanings. In fact the same investigations
showed that Adel Oumoussa would gradually recruit members for his cell through
secret, restricted meetings that began in his room at the university campus when
he was a university student. He then moved the meetings to Oujda when he joined
the teacher-training centre. The meetings were focussed on persuading people
that jihad is lawful, and on the takfir [holding other Muslims to be infidels]
of society and the authorities.

Assabah sources pointed out that Adel Oumoussa, in his capacity as the emir of
the cell in charge of recruitment of people to join terrorist thinking and
action, has maintained his objectives even after he became a teacher of Islamic
studies in the town of Zak. In fact he had tried to recruit his students by
teaching them jihadist thought and takfir.

The accused Adel Oumoussa was in direct contact with Abdelmalek Droukdal, emir
of the AQLIM, who has appointed him coordinator of this terrorist organisation
in Morocco, and tasked him with forming his cell to carry our terrorist
operations to undermine stability in the country.

According to his orders to Adel, the plan of the AQLIM emir was to charge Adel
with the task of preparing recruits for military training either in Algeria or
in Mali, before returning to Morocco to carry out the planned terrorist
operations.

In this connection, Adel Oumoussa coordinated action with a Mauritanian national
nicknamed Abou Yahia Said. His real name was Mohamed Ould Jeddou Ould Hamadi, an
AQLIM activist in the region of Tizi Ouzou, Algeria. Moreover, the Adel Oumoussa
cell has set targets for terrorist attacks in Morocco, with the blessing and
guidance of the AQLIM leaders. This included a terrorist operation with belt
bombs and truck bombs against the military forces engaged in military training
in the Tantan region, where Moroccan and US forces are taking part. The
terrorists intended to film the attacks for the AQLIM media organs to get a
scoop.

According to Assabah sources, the terrorists had also planned to attack the
Guelmim airport which is considered by them to be the place from where French
aircraft take off to carry out their operations against armed groups in Mali, as
well as Moroccan jails where Islamist detainees are held, in order to release
them.

Moreover, it has transpired that Adel Oumoussa who has been appointed emir of
the [AQLIM] cell in Morocco has made plans for a suicide attack against French
targets and has had talks with another detainee in the same case, called Ismail
A. about the possibility of getting firearms from certain drug dealers in
northern Morocco. The emir of the cell has also planned to recruit a man with
police records from the northern region to carry out this task. The aim of
getting firearms was to liquidate guards of the targeted positions in Tantan
before carrying the terrorist operation.

Assabah sources concluded that the cell in question had imitated the AQLIM ways
and planned to establish a rear base in the Rif Mountains, near Nador.

Source: Assabah website, Casablanca, in Arabic 30 Aug 13

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                            August 31, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

PANCAKE'S TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 15 words


Gangster jailed for 9½ years after city assault Report &more dramatic pictures -
Pages 4&5

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FEAR: 'Pancake' Taylor and two accomplices burst in on victim Lee Siner

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2013 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      September 1, 2013 Sunday 4:54 AM GMT

Failed 'terrorist' attack on Suez Canal ship;
A container ship in the Suez Canal was the target of a failed "terrorist" attack
on Saturday aimed at disrupting traffic through the key waterway, the head of
the Suez Canal Authority said.

BYLINE: AFP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 299 words


Admiral Mohab Mamish confirmed that "a terrorist" had launched the attack
against a Panamanian-flagged ship, adding in a statement that "the attempt
failed completely and there was no damage to the ship or the containers it
carried".

The statement gave no details of the nature of the attempt at 1230 GMT Saturday,
but sources said they heard loud explosions from the container ship which had
been passing through the canal.

The Egyptian army gave the order for heightened security measures at the
strategic sea route.

The Suez Canal dealt with a normal volume of 45 boats on Saturday with another
55 expected to pass through on Sunday.

The army recently launched a major operation in the North Sinai peninsula,
around the canal, where several Islamist extremist groups operate.

On Saturday an al-Qaeda front group based in Iraq and Syria called on Egyptians
to take up arms against their country's military.

The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIS) also dismissed the Muslim
Brotherhood, the party of ousted Egyptian President Mohamed Morsi, as "evil" for
supporting democracy and seeking to win power through elections.

Following massive popular protests against the Islamist Morsi, the army removed
him in a July 3 coup and imprisoned him.

At nearly 200 kilometres long, the Suez Canal is owned by Egypt but governed by
an international treaty that guarantees free navigation.

It provides a vital link between the Red Sea and the Mediterranean.

The US military enjoys special privileges due to its long-running alliance with
Egypt, allowing American naval ships to jump the queue of vessels to transit the
canal.

The US Navy has deployed five destroyers to the eastern Mediterranean, a defence
official told AFP on Thursday, as expectations grow of an imminent strike on
Syria.

Edited by Steve Wilson

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 2, 2013 Monday

Iran says Syria attack to fuel terrorism in region

LENGTH: 101 words


Iran's Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif has warned that a military
intervention in Syria will "aggravate the crisis and lead to an increase in
instability, terrorism and radicalism in the region," Mehr news agency reported
on 2 September.

According to Mehr, Zarif called for a diplomatic solution to the Syrian conflict
in a telephone conversation with Sartaj Aziz, the advisor to the Pakistani prime
minister on national security and foreign affairs.

The Iranian foreign minister also condemned the use of chemical weapons in
Syria, Mehr said.

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in Persian 0746gmt 02 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 3, 2013 Tuesday

Egyptian army launches aircraft attack in Sinai, kills 15 "terrorists"

LENGTH: 87 words


At 1030 gmt on 3 September, Egyptian state-run Nile News TV carried an urgent
screen caption saying: "15 terrorists killed in aircraft raid on four villages
in Al-Shaykh Zuwayid and Rafah [in North Sinai]."

The Egyptian military has been launching aircraft attacks on armed groups in the
Sinai Peninsula.

Another screen caption quoted a military source as saying that the army also
destroyed weapons and ammunition caches belonging to "terrorist" elements in
North Sinai.

Source: Nile News TV, Cairo, in Arabic 1030gmt 03 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                           September 3, 2013 Tuesday

'Terrorists' Attack Ship In Suez Canal

LENGTH: 95 words


News: The Suez Canal Authority in Egypt has said that the Panamanian-flagged
Cosco Asia was attacked by 'terrorists' while it was passing through the
waterway on August 31, reports the Journal of Commerce Online. The authority
claimed that the attempted attack was unsuccessful, with no damage to the 10,062
twenty-foot equivalent units containership or its containers. However, it is
unclear whether the attack was related to the ongoing turmoil in the Middle
East. The incident was dealt with by Egyptian armed forces and the traffic was
restored to normal on September 1.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2013 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 4, 2013 Wednesday

Puntland condemns "terrorist attack" on Somali president's convoy

LENGTH: 130 words


Text of report in English by Somali pro-Puntland government Garoweonline website
on 3 September

Press Release

Puntland government strongly condemns 3 September terrorist attack on the convoy
of Somali President HE Hasan Shaykh Mahmud, as the convoy travelled by road from
Mogadishu to Marka.

The people and government of Puntland send condolences to the Somali federal
government and the families of victims killed in this heinous and ruthless
attack by Al-Shabab terrorist group.

This attack is another attempt by terrorists to undermine peace and stability in
Somalia by attacking the leaders.

The aspirations of Puntland and the Somali people are to overcome security
challenges and to achieve lasting peace, stability and progress in Somalia.

Source: Garoweonline.com in English 3 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 4, 2013 Wednesday

Security tightened in Ankara in face of possible terror attack - Turkish daily

LENGTH: 343 words


Text of report in English by Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman website on 3
September

Security forces in Ankara are on high alert after receiving intelligence that
two Revolutionary People's Liberation Party/Front (DHKP/C) terrorists who
launched a light anti-tank weapon at the ruling party's Ankara headquarters are
planning another attack on an unknown target.

DHKP/C terrorists Murat Korkut and Muharrem KarataAY attacked the Justice and
Development Party's (AK Party) headquarters in Ankara in March. Turkey's
National Police Department and National Intelligence Organization (MA°T) have
located the two terrorists in Syria and are working intensely to prevent them
from carrying out any more attacks. The photos of the two suspects have been
shared with border officials.

Turkish security forces are closely watching DHKP/C members in Turkey and
abroad. Turkish officials have recently shared intelligence with foreign
intelligence officials about 38 would-be suicide bombers who are believed to be
hiding in Greece, Germany and Belgium. Turkish officials fear that the
terrorists will try to carry out attacks on Turkish institutions as well as
foreign missions in Turkey.

Greek coastal security teams captured terrorist militants in a speedboat
carrying arms and explosives to Turkey from Chios Island in late July. The
terrorists captured, two Greeks and two Turks, turned out to be members of the
DHKP/C - a far-left terrorist organization that has carried out a series of
deadly attacks on police stations since late last year - and were arrested by
the Greek court. Turkey demanded the extradition of the militants.

Two of them, Hasan Biber and Mehmet Yayla, are believed to be the perpetrators
of the attacks on the AK Party headquarters and the Ministry of Justice
building. Two other suspected DHKP/C members were captured in a July 30 house
raid on Chios Island linked to the speedboat incident. In the Greek forces'
extended operation, a total of 23 people were captured, eight of whom were
arrested.

Source: Zaman website, Istanbul, in English 3 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 4, 2013 Wednesday

Egyptian soldiers injured in two "terrorist attacks" in North Sinai - state TV

LENGTH: 80 words


At 1424 gmt on 4 September, state-run Nile News TV carried an "urgent" screen
caption, reading: "Nile News correspondent says army soldiers were injured in
two terrorist attacks on a troop carrier and a battalion [camp] in Al-Arish
[north east of Cairo]."

Another "urgent" screen caption read: "Nile News correspondent says a conscript
martyred and nine others injured in an armed attack on a police troop carrier in
Al-Arish."

Source: Nile News TV, Cairo, in Arabic 1424gmt 04 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 4, 2013 Wednesday

Electricity slowly restored to central Syria after "terrorist" attack - minister

LENGTH: 97 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus: Electricity Minister Imad Khamis said that electricity is gradually
returning to most provinces after a blackout on Wednesday morning caused by a
terrorist attack against a high-tension power line in the central region.

In a statement to SANA, Khamis said that the attack by an armed terrorist group
resulted in a blackout in a number of provinces, and that repair teams are
working to restore the current to normal within the next few hours.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 4 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Mondaq Business Briefing

                          September 4, 2013 Wednesday

United States: Court Handling The September 11 Terrorist Attack Case Addresses
Work Product Waiver

BYLINE: Thomas Spahn

LENGTH: 313 words


One dramatic difference between the work product doctrine and the
attorney-client privilege involves the former's more robust protection -- which
normally survives disclosure to friendly third parties. Numerous cases hold that
disclosure to accountants, investment bankers, consultants, family members, etc.
normally waives privilege protection -- but not work product protection.

However, even disclosure to a friendly third party can sometimes waive work
product protection - if the disclosure increases the likelihood that an
adversary can obtain it. In In re Terrorist Attacks on September 11, 2001, the
court acknowledged that plaintiffs' FOIA requests were "clearly" work product,
because plaintiffs and their lawyers prepared them in connection with the
litigation. No. 03 MDL 1570 (GBD) (FM), 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 84028, at *130
(S.D.N.Y. June 12, 2013). Plaintiffs also argued that "their sharing of work
product information with various government agencies should not lead to any
waiver because the government is not their adversary in this or any related
proceeding." Id. at *131. The court nevertheless found a waiver - noting that
defendants could themselves file FOIA requests, and that "even disclosure to
non-adversaries waives work product protection if it materially increases the
likelihood that an adversary can gain access to that information." Id.

Although most work product waiver cases involve disclosure to adversaries, even
disclosure to non-adversaries can trigger a waiver in certain circumstances.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the
subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific
circumstances.


 Mr Thomas Spahn
 McGuireWoods LLP
 One James Center
 901 East Cary Street
 Richmond, VA
 23219
 UNITED STATES
 Tel: 804775 1000
 Fax: 804775 1061
E-mail: mkulstad@mcguirewoods.com
 URL: www.mcguirewoods.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                           Copyright 2013 Mondaq Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                           September 7, 2013 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Child watches in terror as mother is attacked by an 'enormous' dog

BYLINE: PAUL WHYATT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 440 words


A CHILD watched in terror as her mother was attacked by an "enormous" dog -
believed to belong to a city councillor.

The incident happened last night in Squires Way, Heatherton.

Neighbours said that the mother and daughter, aged about seven, had been walking
their dog when it was attacked by a greyhound at 6.15pm.

They said the greyhound was with an Alsatian and that neither was with an owner.

Rolls-Royce worker David Jack, who ran outside and tried to pull the greyhound
off the dog, said the woman suffered bites to her hand.

Mr Jack said: "I had just come home from work. I came into the house and I heard
screaming outside.

"I thought it was children at first. It went on for quite some time, so I came
to the front door and saw a dog with its teeth around another dog's neck. "The
owner of the dog being attacked was screaming. I ran over and all I did was try
to pull the dog off. It didn't have a collar so it was hard to get a grip.

"The woman was bitten on her hand. She was with her daughter, who was terrified.

"A passer-by stopped and told her to get in the car so she'd be safe."

Another neighbour, who asked not to be named, said: "There was this dreadful
commotion - screaming, shouting and barking. I turned down the TV and realised
there was a kerfuffle outside. "I came to the front window and saw two enormous
dogs. A neighbour had come out and taken control of the situation.

He separated the dog from the one being attacked.

"The little girl was hiding in a hedge. She was terrified. Someone came along
and let her get in their car.

"It was quite horrific. The lady suffered a deep wound on her hand.

"An ambulance came and took the woman to hospital.

"She was very upset and said she wanted the dog that attacked her dog to be put
down.

"The girl was fine afterwards.

She seemed quite calm."

Last night, Normanton councillor Balbir Sandhu, who lives about a mile away in
Field Rise, Littleover, said he feared the greyhound and Alsatian involved in
the incident were his dogs.

He said: "My dogs went missing at about six o'clock. My dad opened the gate and
didn't close it. He has had two strokes and it's affected his memory. "My guess
is it is my dogs. It's terrible - I want the woman to know I am very sorry and I
will do everything I can to help her."

Speaking at 7.30pm - more than an hour after the attack - Mr Sandhu said that
his dogs were still missing.

He said: "I'm in contact with the police. We're still looking for them."

A police spokeswoman confirmed that they were investigating a dog attack but,
when contacted at 9.30pm, could not confirm whether or not Mr Sandhu's dogs had
been found. pwhyatt@derbytelegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DET


                     Copyright 2013 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 8, 2013 Sunday

Iraqi official, MPs comment on recent "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 1168 words


Text of report by Saudi-owned leading pan-Arab daily Al-Sharq al-Awsat website
on 6 September

[Report by Hamzah Mustafa in Baghdad: "Systematic Acts of Killing Against Entire
Families in the Southern 'Baghdad Belt' Area Bring the 'Triangle of Death' to
the Fore Again. The Iraqi Interior Ministry Says They Are Tribal Revenge Acts or
Usual Criminal Crimes"]

The Iraqi Interior Ministry continues to insist sometimes on the theory of
tribal revenge and on the theory of criminal incidents at other times regarding
what now appears to be systematic acts of killing of entire families,
particularly in the southern Baghdad belt area, namely in Al-Latifiyah, which in
2005 was the scene of sectarian killing.

This area is known as the "death triangle" and it previously had a counterpart,
called the "Sunni triangle." The Sunni triangle includes areas in west Baghdad
extending to the Iraqi-Syrian-Jordanian borders where the Al-Qa'idah
Organization operated under its leader at the time Abu-Mus'ab al-Zarqawi who was
killed during a US raid in May 2006.

But talk is now renewed about this triangle and about an attempt to repeat the
acts that took place in past years and which preceded the sectarian war that was
fought in Iraq in 2006 following the destruction of the two Al-Askari imams
tombs in the City of Samarra in February that year. This sectarian war lasted
until 2008 where the awakening forces [government-formed Sunni groups] that were
established with US support managed to defeat the Al-Qa'idah Organization to a
great extent.

The interior ministry downplayed the importance of the talk about the so-called
attempt to repeat the 2005 scenario where what was known then as the triangle of
death. The ministry says that, even though the acts that were recently carried
out in these areas were described as terrorist acts as part of moves to cause
sectarian sedition, they are revenge and criminal acts. This is a view that was
expressed by the interior ministry spokesman Sa'd Ma'n in a statement he made to
Al-Sharqal-Awsat.

The spokesman said that citizens began to contribute to new intelligence efforts
by providing the security and intelligence agencies with important information
on terrorist and armed groups.

However, Brigadier General Sa'd admits that the need continues for more
cooperation, in addition to the use of new technologies in the security work,
including observation balloons and monitoring cameras. He says that these means
will have an effect on the terrorist groups' activity. That is why these groups
are currently stepping up their terrorist actions in order to confuse the
situation, he notes.

Meanwhile, the Security and Defence Committee of the Iraqi Parliament revealed
another form of the activities that are mainly conducted by the Al-Qa'idah
Organization and other armed organizations and groups that now began to be
active as the security forces' efforts remarkably abate.

Member of this committee for the Kurdistan Alliance Shawan Muhammad Taha tells
Al-Sharqal-Awsat: "The Al-Qa'idah Organization's strategy now appears to be
different to a great extent. This strategy is different from the one that the
organization followed in the past."

He explains: "The organization remarkably uses more car bombs. It does not use
suicide bombers. Even though a large number of car bombs - almost 20 a day -were
used in the past months, all the attacks that are currently carried out involve
the use of cars parked on roadsides. Suicide bombers were rarely used in these
attacks."

He notes: "But this does not mean that the Al-Qa'idah Organization has given up
the use of suicide bombers or explosive belts or that it no longer has many of
them. In fact, the organization uses a different strategy. The security
authorities must be alert that this organization may be planning a large
operation using many of its reserve suicide bombers."

Taha said: "All these recent attacks that appeared to be significant in terms of
the large number of the car bombs, may have been intended to distract the
attention of the military agencies and forces at a time when they secretly
prepare for a major operation."

In reply to a question about concerns over the repetition of the 2005 scenario
in what was called the triangle of death, Taha said: "All what has been taking
place are terrorist attacks. When the situation reaches a point where entire
families are killed as is now happening in some areas, this means that there is
a clear security failure. Moreover, it indicates the presence of militias and
outlawed groups that use this vacuum and disorder with the aim of settling
scores with this or that party."

However, there is a different view of the Baghdad belt areas. The western parts
of these areas have been the scene of indiscriminate arrests and raids since the
incident in the Abu-Ghurayb and Al-Taji prisons in July when more than 1,000
detainees escaped from these two prisons.

Two MPs for the Iraqi List - Dr Talal al-Zawba'i who represents Abu-Ghurayb and
Al-Radwaniyah, and Mazhar al-Janabi who represents the southern Baghdad belt
area and Al-Latifiyah - tell Al-Sharqal-Awsat that the outcome is almost the
same.

Al-Zawba'i says: "The security and government agencies' insistence on imposing a
collective punishment on the residents of these areas through indiscriminate
arrests means that these agencies are unable to reach the real culprit and that
they act on the basis of a clear sectarian view."

He adds: "All these practices against the residents of these areas because they
belong to a certain group (the Sunnis) will never help establish security as
there is a clear fault in dealing with the situation."

Al-Zawba'i strongly criticized the operation that the government codenamed
Operation Revenge of Martyrs "because it was given a wrong name in the first
place and it involves revenge against certain areas." This is not in line with
the current talk about national reconciliation, he added.

For his part, the Iraqi List's MP Mazhar al-Janabi who represents the
Al-Latifiyah and Al-Mahmudiyah areas rules out the theory of sectarian targeting
in the ongoing incidents there.

He says: "The terrorist organizations that wreaked havoc in these areas in the
past seek to perpetuate this view in the minds of some people by saying that
what is going on there is sectarian targeting against a particular group (the
Shi'is) whereas experiences have shown that all Iraqis are targeted."

Al-Janabi added: "Al-Qa'idah has explicitly said this. However, the task of
fighting this organization lies with the government. Nevertheless, the awakening
forces have effectively contributed to the fight against Al-Qa'idah."

He continued: "But the question is what the awakening forces have gained in the
first place. Many of these forces' members are accused by Al-Qa'idah of working
with the government and accused by the government of being affiliated with
Al-Qa'idah. Thus, they are now squeezed between the hammer and the anvil."

Source: Al-Sharq al-Awsat website, London, in Arabic 6 Sep 13

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            September 9, 2013 Monday

UN envoy strongly condemns terrorist attack in Somali capital

LENGTH: 219 words


September 7, 2013

The top United Nations envoy in Somalia today deplored a terrorist attack in the
Somali capital, Mogadishu, which resulted in numerous casualties.



"I am appalled by this act of savagery and condemn it in the strongest terms,"
said the Secretary-General's Special Representative for Somalia, Nicholas Kay.

"I offer my sincere condolences to the families and friends of those killed and
wish a speedy recovery to the injured."

According to media reports, a suicide bomber and a vehicle loaded with
explosives detonated at the site of a restaurant popular with Government workers
and journalists. The restaurant has been targeted before. Some 15 people were
killed.

"Such cruel and cowardly acts of terrorism serve to remind us that the people of
Somalia desperately need peace," Mr. Kay said. "Terrorism is a threat to
Somalis, the people of the region and the world. It needs to be defeated
militarily and politically."

Mr. Kay added that the UN Assistance Mission in Somalia ( UNSOM ), which he
heads, is ready to assist in efforts to combat terrorism and stands by the
people of Somalia.

UNSOM, which began operations last month, is tasked by the Council with
supporting the Horn of Africa nation as it seeks to build on hard-won gains
achieved last year and emerge from over two decades of strife.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 9, 2013 Monday 11:41 AM GMT

'It's an insult to those who died': 9/11 girders given to the UK to remember the
67 Britons who died in terror attack are discovered rusting away in a farmyard

BYLINE: RICHARD HARTLEY-PARKINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 852 words



     ·    Memorial girders shipped to UK for tenth anniversary went on display
          briefly
     ·    Charity raised £250,000 for structure which it hoped to put in central
          London
     ·    However, it was discovered in a farmyard and is now in storage in
          Ruislip
     ·    UK was one of only a handful of countries to receive WTC fragments
     ·    Boris Johnson today said he was looking to put it in the Olympic Park


A memorial girder that was given to the UK following the destruction of the Twin
Towers has been rusting away on a farmyard, it has been revealed in the week
that marks the 12th anniversary of the terror attacks.

The 28ft piece of steel, which was turned into a sculpture, was put on display
at Battersea Park for a short time after it was shipped over from New York on
the tenth anniversary.

It had been intended to be a reminder of the events of that day which claimed
2,977 lives - 67 of them were from the UK, the second most affected country in
the atrocity.

The structure was pulled down after 28 days and it was then put into storage.

But it has now been tracked down by The Sun newspaper which has published
pictures showing it rusting away in an anonymous car park on a Cambridgeshire
farm. It has since been moved to a depot in Ruislip, North London.

The 9/11 London Project raised £250,000 in charitable donations to have the
girders shipped over and welded together to form the structure.

Founder Peter Rosengard said: 'The artwork is still in storage as nowhere can be
found to put it. It's an insult to those who died and it causes me great sadness
that the UK has not found a place for it.'

Another campaigner described the fact that the memorial had apparently been so
unceremoniously dumped as an insult to New York and a 'national embarrassment'.

The artwork, entitled After 9/11, was designed by American artist Miya Ando and
went on display in time for the tenth anniversary of the terrorist attacks on
New York and Washington.

The sculpture, crafted from three sections of the Twin Towers,  was unveiled on
September 5, 2011, in a temporary home in Battersea Park by Boris Johnson,
alongside former New York City Fire Commissioner Thomas Von Essen and the
artist.

At the ceremony, Mr Johnson called for an end to 9/11 conspiracy theories,
saying that he wanted a 'controlled demolition' of wacky alternative
explanations for the disaster.

Miss Ando said she wanted to 'give light back into the community' with her work,
which will be moved from Battersea Park to a permanent home as soon as a
suitable location is found.

'I thought it was a poetic way to express transformation,' she said. 'Not only
are we having the piece stand upright in a gesture of resilience, but to create
something serene and light.'

Permission was given to put the structure up permanently at Potters Field Park
near Boris Johnson's Office, but then the land's management trust blocked it,
according to The Sun.

Patricia Bingley, mother of Kevin who died in the disaster, said: 'It's sad no
one seems to want it anywhere. It should be put up in central London where
everyone can see it.'

The Mayor of London Boris Johnson said: 'We backed the 9/11 project when the
sculpture first came to Battersea, but finding a permanent home for it has
proved incredibly difficult, whether it be opposition from Boroughs or
bureaucrats.

'Clearly this can't continue. As a result I've asked my team to find a permanent
home for the sculpture on the Olympic Park.

'The park was home to a Games based on tolerance, harmony and respect, and will
soon be home to a massive multi-dimensional and vibrant community - the perfect
riposte to those who sought to divide the world on 9/11.'

There has also been anger from Mr von Essen who described the situation as
'confusing and disappointing... to think of it still being in storage.'

He added: 'Those responsible for deciding who they gave this steel to would be
very upset.'

THE BRITISH VICTIMS OF

Sarah Ali

Andrew Bailey

Michele Beale

Jane Beatty

Oliver Bennett

Graham Berkeley

Paul Gary Bristow

Geoff Campbell

Jeremy Mark Carrington

Suria Clarke

Neil James Cudmore

Michael Joseph Cunningham

Gavin Cushny

Caleb Arron Dack

Calvin Dawson

Richard Dawson

Kevin Dennis

Melanie Louise de Vere

Richard Dunstan

Robert Douglas Eaton

Christine Egan

Michael Egan

Godwin Forde

THE DESTRUCTION OF

Christopher Hugh Forsythe

Boyde Alan Gatton

Andrew Gilbert

Timothy Gilbert

Paul Gilbey

Ronald Gilligan

Robert J Halligan

Nicholas John

Christopher Jones

Robin Blair Larkey

Steven Lawn

Leon Lebor

Michael WIlliam Lomax

Mark Gavin Ludvigsen

Colin R McArthur

Gavin McMahon

Christine McNulty

Simon Maddison

Keithroy Maynard

John Christopher Moran

Stephen Morris

Alex Napier

WORLD TRADE CENTER

Marcus R Neblett

Christopher Newton-Carter

Hasmukh C Parmar

Avnish Ramanbhai Patel

David Alan James Rathkey

Sarah Anne Redheffer

Cyril Richard Rescorla

Karlie ROgers

Howard Selwyn

Jane L Simpkin

Michael J Stewart

Derek Ogilvie Sword

Rhondelle Cherie Tankard

Ian Clive Thompson

Nigel Burce Thompson

Simon James Turner

Benjamin James Walker

Dinah Webster

Vincent Wells

Katherine Wolf

Martin M Wortley

Neil Robin Wright

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 9, 2013 Monday 10:38 AM GMT

'It's an insult to those who died': 9/11 girders given to the UK to remember the
67 Britons who died in terror attack are discovered rusting away in a farmyard

BYLINE: RICHARD HARTLEY-PARKINSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 504 words



     ·    Memorial girders shipped to UK for tenth anniversary went on display
          briefly
     ·    Charity raised £250,000 for structure which it hoped to put in central
          London
     ·    However, it was discovered in a farmyard and is now in storage in
          Ruislip
     ·    UK was one of only a handful of countries to receive WTC fragments


A memorial girder that was given to the UK following the destruction of the Twin
Towers has been rusting away on a farmyard, it has been revealed in the week
that marks the 12th anniversary of the terror attacks.

The 28ft piece of steel, which was turned into a sculpture, was put on display
at Battersea Park for a short time after it was shipped over from New York on
the tenth anniversary.

It had been intended to be a reminder of the events of that day which claimed
2,977 lives - 67 of them were from the UK, the second most affected country in
the atrocity.

The structure was pulled down after 28 days and it was then put into storage.

But it has now been tracked down by The Sun newspaper which has published
pictures showing it rusting away in an anonymous car park on a Cambridgeshire
farm. It has since been moved to a depot in Ruislip, North London.

The 9/11 London Project raised £250,000 in charitable donations to have the
girders shipped over and welded together to form the structure.

Founder Peter Rosengard said: 'The artwork is still in storage as nowhere can be
found to put it. It's an insult to those who died and it causes me great sadness
that the UK has not found a place for it.'

Another campaigner described the fact that the memorial had apparently been so
unceremoniously dumped as an insult to New York and a 'national embarrassment'.

The artwork, entitled After 9/11, was designed by American artist Miya Ando and
went on display in time for the tenth anniversary of the terrorist attacks on
New York and Washington.

The sculpture, crafted from three sections of the Twin Towers,  was unveiled on
September 5, 2011, in a temporary home in Battersea Park by Boris Johnson,
alongside former New York City Fire Commissioner Thomas Von Essen and the
artist.

At the ceremony, Mr Johnson called for an end to 9/11 conspiracy theories,
saying that he wanted a 'controlled demolition' of wacky alternative
explanations for the disaster.

Miss Ando said she wanted to 'give light back into the community' with her work,
which will be moved from Battersea Park to a permanent home as soon as a
suitable location is found.

'I thought it was a poetic way to express transformation,' she said. 'Not only
are we having the piece stand upright in a gesture of resilience, but to create
something serene and light.'

Permission was given to put the structure up permanently at Potters Field Park
near Boris Johnson's Office, but then the land's management trust blocked it,
according to The Sun.

There has also been anger from Mr von Essen who described the situation as
'confusing and disappointing... to think of it still being in storage.'

He added: 'Those responsible for deciding who they gave this steel to would be
very upset.'

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 9, 2013 Monday 12:21 PM GMT

9/11 memorial 'rusting in farmyard in insult to victims';
A 9/11 memorial made from a Ground Zero girder is rusting in a farmyard in an
"insult" to the victims of the terrorist attack, campaigners have claimed.

BYLINE: By Hayley Dixon

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 423 words


The segment of the World Trade Centre was gifted from the US as a public
reminder of the 2001 atrocity which killed 2,977 people, including 67 Britons.

But a home cannot be found for the sculpture after a number of officials across
London have barred its permanent display, The Sun reported.

The piece, entitled After 9/11, has only been on show in the UK for 28 days
after it was unveiled in 2011, despite it being gifted on the provision it
remain on permanent display.

One campaigner said: "This is a national embarrassment. It's also an insult to
New York and all those who died."

A New York judge had to sign off a special agreement releasing the metal, which
is still held as court evidence in any case relating to the September 11
al-Qaeda attack, and London was the only capital to be gifted a piece of the
steel recovered from the site.

Since it was taken down from its temporary home in Battersea Park every council
in London is believed to have either refused to house the 28ft high sculpture,
designed by American artist Miya Ando, and or ignored requests to discuss a
site.

It was originally due to be housed in Potters Fields Park next to City Hall, but
the management trust that leases the land is said to have blocked a permanent
display.

Since then other attempts to house it in London have failed, with sources
claiming that lack of suitable sites, local objections, and calls for a memorial
which include victims in other conflicts cited as justification.

It was being stored underneath a blue tarpaulin at a farm in Cambridgeshire, but
has now been moved to a storage depot in Ruislip, north west London.

Peter Rosengard, the founder The 9/11 London Project which raised £250,000 to
have the sculpture made and shipped to the UK, said that it was an "insult to
those who died" which was causing him "great sadness".

His thoughts were echoed by former New York City fire commissioner Thomas von
Essen - who led emergency services on 9/11 - who said that they were
"disappointed" as they were under the impression that a home would be found.

Victims families, including Patricia Bingley, 78, whose son Kevin, 43, died in
the attack, have joined calls for it to be given a prominent home as a reminder
of the events for generations to come.

The campaign is being backed by the former Archbishop of Canterbury George
Carey, who insisted it should be an "ever-present reminder of the evils of
intolerance and bad religion", historian Simon Schama and London Mayor Boris
Johnson, who unveiled the piece when it arrived in the UK.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     September 10, 2013 Tuesday 5:11 PM GMT

Algerian 'aided terror attack bid'

SECTION: REPUBLIC OF IRELAND

LENGTH: 545 words


An Algerian facing extradition to the US on international terrorism charges
planned to get others to train with al Qaida to attack US and European targets,
a court has heard.

Ali Charaf Damache, who was arrested following an alleged plot to murder Swedish
cartoonist Lars Vilks, is wanted by authorities in Pennsylvania for conspiracy
to provide material support for terrorists and attempted identity theft to
facilitate an act of terrorism.

US investigators claim they can link him to a woman from Philadelphia who became
radicalised in online chatrooms and used the cyber codename Jihad Jane.

If convicted in the US - Theblackflag as he was known on the internet - faces up
to 45 years behind bars.

Lawyers for the 47-year-old claim he should have gone on trial in Ireland and
that extradition would be against his constitutional rights.

Opening the case for the Attorney General at the High Court in Dublin, barrister
Remy Farrell alleged Damache made contact over the internet with a woman in the
US in 2009 and told her he was a devoted jihadist in Ireland.

Mr Farrell claimed the accused planned for a small group to go to an al Qaida
camp in Pakistan to train in explosives and "then return to Europe and support
attacks on targets that would kill American and European citizens".

The barrister alleged he arranged for Colleen LaRose - a Pennsylvania woman who
called herself Jihad Jane online - to travel to the Netherlands and Ireland and
gave her spiritual guidance.

On return to the US in October 2009 she was arrested and later pleaded guilty to
conspiracy to her role in a plot to kill Vilks, who controversially depicted the
Prophet Mohammed with the body of a dog.

The cartoons were printed in a newspaper in Sweden in 2007.

Damache was arrested last March as he walked free from Waterford courthouse
minutes after pleading guilty to making a menacing phone call to US Muslim
activist Majed Moughni in January 2010.

His three year sentence had been backdated to his original arrest in March 2010,
when he was detained as part of the international investigation in to the Vilks
plot.

Defence barrister Micheal O'Higgins told the court his client wants a judicial
review into why Ireland's Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) did not deal
with the case as the alleged offence happened in Ireland, and why it would not
outline its reasons for that decision.

"The core of the judicial review is the DPP's decision not to deal with it here
and the DPP's refusal to outline its reasons why," he said.

Elsewhere, Mr Justice John Edwards rejected an application by Mr O'Higgins for
the judge to excuse himself from hearing an application for the judicial review
tomorrow amid claims he had been biased towards the DPP at an earlier hearing
over the discovery of documents.

The judge ruled that if he grants leave for a judicial review, it would be more
convenient for his court to deal with the matter as opposed to adding it to
another court list.

Damache, who has lived in Ireland for more than a decade, speaks English,
Arabic, French and Algerian.

He has brought a separate legal action against the state over conditions in Cork
prison as he awaited the hearing.

He claimed he was subjected to insults and abuse by fellow inmates and prison
staff, charges which are denied.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2013 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     September 10, 2013 Tuesday 5:05 AM GMT

Syria tyrant warns of terror backlash if U.S. attacks

BYLINE: Gary Nicks

LENGTH: 191 words


<em class="bold">SYRIA last night warned the West to "expect everything" in
revenge attacks if it is bombed by America.</em>

Dictator Bashar al-Assad issued chilling threats live on US telly and did not
rule out chemical weapons being unleashed in the fallout.

He warned that retaliation strikes "may take different forms" with attacks
coming "direct and indirect".

Assad said US action would strengthen al-Qaida fanatics trying to topple him.

With the crisis entering a critical week, Russia backed America's ultimatum on
Syria to hand over chemical weapons and avoid a missile bombardment.

Assad again denied gassing his own people, but he claimed that rebel forces and
terrorists would not be afraid to use chemical weapons.

He said air strikes on his country would trigger "instability and the spread of
terrorism all over the region that will influence the West directly". And he
told America to "expect the worst."

US Secretary of State John Kerry, in London yesterday for crisis talks with
Foreign Secretary William Hague, gave Assad until the end of the week to hand
over his chemical arsenal and avoid action.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           September 10, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;

SYRIA:WE WILL UNLEASH HELL IF U.S. ATTACKS;
Tyrant warns of terror backlash

BYLINE: GARY NICKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 185 words


SYRIA last night warned the West to "expect everything" in revenge attacks if it
is bombed by America.

Dictator Bashar al-Assad issued chilling threats live on US telly and did not
rule out chemical weapons being unleashed in the fallout.

He warned that retaliation strikes "may take different forms" with attacks
coming "direct and indirect".

Assad said US action would strengthen al-Qaida fanatics trying to topple him.

With the crisis entering a critical week, Russia backed America's ultimatum on
Syria to hand over chemical weapons and avoid a missile bombardment.

Assad again denied gassing his own people, but he claimed that rebel forces and
terrorists would not be afraid to use chemical weapons.

He said air strikes on his country would trigger "instability and the spread of
terrorism all over the region that will influence the West directly". And he
told America to "expect the worst."

US Secretary of State John Kerry, in London yesterday for crisis talks with
Foreign Secretary William Hague, gave Assad until the end of the week to hand
over his chemical arsenal and avoid action.

gary.nicks@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TALKS: John Kerry and William Hague

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2013 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 11, 2013 Wednesday

Bosnian terrorism expert discusses embassy attacker trial, Wahhabis in Syria

LENGTH: 1204 words


Text of report by Bosnian Croat Mostar-based daily Dnevni list, on 7 September

[Interview with terrorism expert Vlado Azinovic by A. Mrkonjic; in Sarajevo,
date not given: "It Would Be Dangerous if 'Veterans From Syria' Became Social
Role Models!"]

Sarajevo - University professor Vlado Azinovic has observed that someone has
persuaded the "warriors" to go to Syria, a country that they have never seen
before. He also warned that it would therefore be even easier to persuade them
to fight their "closer" enemies within Bosnia and Hercegovina [B-H], or the
region. Azinovic believes that the Sunni-Shi'i conflict that was "imported"
among the local Muslim population does not, however, pose a particular threat to
the security situation in B-H.

[Mrkonjic] How would you comment on the alleged offer by Mevlid Jasarevic to the
B-H Prosecutor's Office for a deal in exchange for statement who he got the
weapons to attack the US Embassy from, and the Prosecutor's Office's consequent
rejection?

[Azinovic] I find it difficult to talk about this with certainty as it seems
that neither the defence nor the prosecution confirmed that this was a
negotiating matter, or that such an offer was made at all. The origin of the
rifle used for the attack on the Embassy has been subject to investigation. But,
unlike everything else that the prosecution wanted to know, and Jasarevic
eventually told, he persistently refused to say where he got the rifle from. As
far as I remember, he even suggested on one occasion that he bought the weapon
from a person of different ethnicity. I have recently heard that he now the
claims that he got it from a member of his closer family. In any case, it would
be important to determine the origin of this weapon, although this does not have
to be vital because this would not necessarily mean that someone gave him or
sold him the weapon for the purpose of attacking the US Embassy in Sarajevo. I
suppose that the Prosecutor's Office will judge whether this piece of
information is important enough to consider negotiating a lower sentence for
him.

[Mrkonjic] How do you comment on the threats received by your distinguished
colleague Professor Hafizovic? That was frightening, but do you think that there
will be more such things in the future?

[Azinovic] I think that the problem is much bigger than this. We have been prone
for a long time to a building of a collective consciousness that formerly
depended on the ideology, and it now depends on the ethnic and religious
identities. In both cases, the internal cohesion of such collectivities is
usually preserved by selective and one-sided interpretations of the past and the
present, and fantasies about our own identity group being the best, always on
the side of justice and the truth, and always indisputably right. "Those who
speak differently are responsible for slander and lies, and they will feel our
sanction," the Yugoslav communists used to sing judging those who did not share
their views and punishing them for now recognizing the same knowledge patterns.
Collective identities are usually strengthened by recognizing and punishing its
enemies. From that point of view, everything that is of other and different from
us is actually the evidence for our own correctness, but also the need for
something that is "ours" to defeat "theirs." Every individualism is a threat for
the collective cohesion and needs to be suppressed. This is, unfortunately, the
context in which we could comment on what happened to Professor Resid Hafizovic,
an excellent intellectual and scholar. The threats against him also constitute
threats against others who may also want to resist the dictatorship of
single-mindedness. What is particularly interesting in this case, in my opinion,
is that the threats against Professor Hafizovic were partly condemned by those
who often favour and encourage the development of consciousness generating such
threats. There have been frequent debates within the Islamic Community in B-H
about the "import" of the Sunni and Shi'i divisions among the local Muslim
population.

[Mrkonjic] Has this now become a serious matter, one that could encourage
aggression, and could it be related to terrorist activity and threat?

[Azinovic] The Sunni-Shi'i rifts, and their long and often bloody history, as
well as their reflections on the Muslim relations in the world, constitute a
complex matter of which we first became aware at the end of 1980s, but
particularly during the past war when the interests of Saudi Arabia and Iran,
the two most important proponents of this conflict, started overlapping in this
region. It seems that the actions of several local players have recently made
the Shi'i teaching more prominent here. Moreover, some of the Iranian
organizational models functioning under an illusion of democracy, but in fact
under strong control of the Islamic Revolution guardians, have been very
appealing for some formal and informal structures in B-H, which have tried to
copy this model here. But, whatever this is, I do not think that it will have
the direct security implications that you referred to.

[Mrkonjic] Tens of Wahhabis from B-H have allegedly joined wars in the Arab
countries. How come they can be so openly trained in B-H, and who, in your
opinion, is financing their training and recruitment?

[Azinovic] I have not so far received any confirmation that individuals or
groups that you mentioned are in fact being trained in B-H. Such allegations
have been made by individuals who claim to be terror experts, but I think that
the relevant security agencies do not have information that could confirm such
claims. It was reported and documented that several tens of Bosnian nationals
left for Syria over the past months to fight on the side of various opposition
groups against the regime of President Al-Asad. This has indicated several
potentially alarming issues. First of all, if it was possible to persuade
someone from B-H to go and fight against enemies in Syria, a country that these
"warriors" were probably not able to show on the map earlier, how difficult
would it be to persuade them to start a battle against much "closer" enemies, if
needed, in B-H, or the region? Secondly, by leaving for Syria, these people tend
to get in contact with persons who are linked with international groups or
organizations and become, or stay, more or less parts of these networks even
after they return to B-H. Furthermore, the return of ideologically radicalized
persons with combat experience could make it likely for them to use this
experience here, if necessary. And, as if this was not enough, in a country like
ours, with an almost completely fallen system of moral and ethical values, which
is dominated by a lack of political responsibility, by corruption, incompetence,
and nepotism, it is very likely that a part of the public here, particularly the
younger generations, will see "our veterans from Syria" as the social role
models, someone to look up to and follow. I am not sure that we have strong
enough corrective mechanisms - either values, or the social and security
measures, to fight such a process, if it expands and becomes stronger.

Source: Dnevni list, Mostar, in Bosnian 7 Sep 13 p 8

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  ENP Newswire

                          September 11, 2013 Wednesday

-Cassidian's new TRSS Naval Radar detects even swimmers;
Sensor supports countermeasures against terrorist attacks;
Sea and land surveillance from uniquely compact single naval platform

LENGTH: 530 words


ENP Newswire - 11 September 2013

Release date- 10092013 - London - Cassidian, the defence division of EADS,
introduces a new naval X-Band radar optimized for the detection of extremely
small objects and countering asymmetric threats. Based upon the latest Active
Electronically Scanning Array (AESA) radar technology, the new Tactical Radar
for Surface Surveillance (TRSS) substantially increases the detection
capabilities, and thus the protection level, of navy ships and coast guard
vessels. The radar will be displayed for the first time during Defence &
Security Equipment International (DSEi) exhibition in London, taking place from
the 10th to the 13th of September.



'Our new radar constitutes a quantum leap in terms of detection capabilities',
says Elmar Compans, Head of Sensors & Electronic Warfare at Cassidian. 'It
provides high-performance surveillance not only at sea but also over land which
makes it unique in the market'.

TRSS with its low weight, power consumption and space requirements makes the
AESA technology now affordable for small- and medium-sized vessels. This is
beneficial particularly to ships operating in littoral waters which previously
could not accommodate radars at all or had to use conventional mechanically
rotating models. TRSS is able to detect and distinguish small objects precisely
at close ranges, e.g. individual swimmers. These features allow operators an
optimal overview of the situation, e.g. against terrorist attacks, and
additionally enable operators to monitor movements on land.

AESA technology and electronic beam steering enables the radar to fulfil several
tasks at the same time while increasing detection capability substantially. This
unique detection performance derives from a multitude of Cassidian's Transmit-
and Receive Modules, based on state-of-the-art technology. The technology
applied holds unique electronic characteristics such as high power added
efficiency and allows for very efficient industrial production processes.
Cassidian is the leading supplier of this technology.

Cassidian has delivered a broad range of radar sensors for naval, land-based,
airborne, space and security applications. Among others, Cassidian provides the
new US Coast Guard cutters with its successful TRS-3D surveillance and target
acquisition radar and the new German F125 frigates with its TRS-4D naval radar.
Furthermore, Cassidian manufactures radars for satellites, fighter aircraft and
border surveillance systems.

About CASSIDIAN

Cassidian, the defence division of EADS, is a worldwide leader in defence and
security solutions. The company delivers advanced defence systems along the
whole action chain from sensors through command & control systems to combat
aircraft and unmanned air systems. In the area of security, Cassidian provides
customers worldwide with border surveillance systems, cyber security solutions
and secure communications. In 2012, Cassidian - with around 23,000 employees -
achieved revenues of EUR 5.7 billion.

Contact: Lothar Belz

Head of Technology / Trade Press

Cassidian

Tel.: +49 7 31 3 92 36 81
Fax: +49 7 31 3 92 37 55

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
]

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: ENPN


                      Copyright 2013 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                    September 11, 2013 Wednesday 5:24 PM GMT

Families of 9/11 victims mark 12th anniversary of worst US terror attack at
Ground Zero

BYLINE: Dion Dassanayake

LENGTH: 409 words


FAMILIES of the September 11 terror attacks which killed almost 3,000 people
have gathered at Ground Zero in New York to mark its 12 anniversary today.

A moment's silence was held and people in Wall Street paused as names of the
victims of the 9/11 attacks were read out at the site of the World Trade Center.

The memorial service was held at 8.46AM local time to mark the moment the first
of two hijacked planes struck the twin towers, which later collapsed.

The attacks killed 2,977 people, 67 of which were British, and responsibility
for the worst terror attack in American history was claimed by al-Qaeda leader
Osama Bin Laden.

The September 11 2001 terrorism act lead to a war in Afghanistan and a decade
long hunt to find Bin Laden who was killed by US Navy Seals in Pakistan in May
2011.

A moment's silence was held to remember the 2,977 people killed in the worst US
terror attack

Karen Hinson, who lost her 34-year-old brother Michael Wittenstein in 9/11,
said: "No matter how many years pass, this time comes around each year - and
it's always the same."

President Barack Obama also held a moment's silence at the White House alongside
wife Michelle to mark the anniversary of the attacks.

He also attended a ceremony at the Pentagon which was also struck by a third
hijacked plane.

Speaking at the headquarters of US Defence Department, Obama said: "Let us have
the wisdom to know that while force is sometimes necessary, force alone cannot
build the world we seek."

Mija Quigley embraces the name of her son Patrick Quigley on a memorial

Following on from a decision made last year politicians made no speeches in New
York out of a mark of respect.

The 9/11 attacks led to severe damage in the Lower Manhattan area and the
cleanup of Ground Zero was completed in May 2002.

In its place One World Trade Center, formerly known as the Freedom Tower, was
built with the completion of the building occurring this year.

The memorial service was held at the same time the planes hit the Twin Towers

A number of memorials to the September 11 attacks have been built including the
National September 11 Memorial & Museum and the Flight 93 National Memorial.

The later, built in Pennsylvania, marks the crash site of the United Airlines
Flight 93.

The memorial was built to mark the passengers and crew who stopped a fourth
plane hijacked by terrorists reaching its target.

The attacks occured after terrorists hijacked two planes and crashed them into
the Twin Towers

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2013 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 501-1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:13:29

