



Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:06:29
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                January 11, 2000

Court told of family's hammer attack terror

BYLINE: By Leanne Carter

SECTION: Crime: Malicious damage, Pg.3

LENGTH: 295 words


AN ELGIN man who caused GBP 2,500 worth of damage during a sledgehammer attack
on his girlfriend's home was yesterday sentenced to 75 days in a young
offenders' institution.

The town's sheriff court heard that Craig Smith had no recollection of the
incident last October where he smashed, walls, windows, electrical equipment and
furniture. At one point during the incident, his girlfriend and her young
children were huddling together on the kitchen floor.

Smith, 20, of 52 Muirfield Road, admitted maliciously damaging the property at a
court hearing in November.

Sentence had been deferred until yesterday for background reports, including a
psychiatric assessment.

Sheriff Noel McPartlin said the reports showed no evidence of a psychiatric
problem.

Passing sentence, he added: "The information given by the Crown was that this
was a very serious matter. A sledgehammer was used to damage a considerable
amount of property and this was committed in the presence of the householder and
children.

"I am of the view that there has to be a custodial sentence in this case." Smith
also pleaded guilty to attempting to strike two police officers with the
sledgehammer outside the house in Duncan Drive, having an offensive weapon in a
public place and breaking the peace. All the offences happened on October 29.

The court heard previously that Smith went to the house to deliver Halloween
gifts.

He had been drinking during the evening, but not to the extent where he was
drunk, and simply could not understand what happened, said defence agent
Patricia Mennie.

She told the court yesterday: "He bitterly regrets his behaviour. It has ended
his relationship with his girlfriend and he accepts that the relationship is not
likely to continue in any form."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2000 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           January 11, 2000, Tuesday

BANK CUSTOMER'S GUN THREAT TERROR;
 ROBBER STAGES LIGHTNING ATTACK

BYLINE: Lucy Wilson & Duncan Gibbons

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 305 words


AN ARMED bank robber pushed a gun into a customer's chest and demanded money
from a cashier in Coventry yesterday.

The man made off with cash after a lightning raid which lasted just seconds at
the National Westminster bank in Earlsdon Street, Earlsdon, Coventry, just
before 1pm.

Police are not revealing how much money he got away with.

He walked into the bank and went up to a woman customer who was talking to one
of the cashiers. He pushed his gun into the customer's chest and demanded money.

The cashier handed over the money and he left the bank.

A police spokesman said: "The offender fled with his haul, spending only a
matter of seconds in the bank.

"Obviously the customer, who is believed to be in her late 30s, and the cashier
are shaken and distressed by their experience."

A worker at the nearby Sketchley's dry cleaners said: "A load of CID officers
came and said that this guy had run past our shop but we didn't see a thing."

Other neighbouring workers commented on the lack of commotion during the raid.

"There were no alarms or anything," said an assistant at Perkins & Sons
florists.

"The first we knew about it was when the flashing blue lights on the police cars
appeared."

A spokesman for NatWest confirmed the robbery had taken place but was not
prepared to give any details.

Detectives from Fletchamstead Highway police station are hunting the robber.

He is described as white, 5ft 9in, aged between 50 and 55, of medium build,
clean shaven, with short, grey hair. He was smartly dressed in a charcoal,
three-quarter length coat, a blue polo neck jumper, blue jeans and white
trainers. He wore oval or round, silver-framed glasses,

Anyone who can help police should phone Det Con Tony Martin at Fletchamstead
Highway police station on 01203 539030.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RAID SCENE: The National Westminster Bank in Earlsdon, Coventry

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      January 13, 2000, Thursday Edition 1

Yobs bring terror to a Metro train -;
Missile attack on carriage leaves terrified passengers covered in glass

BYLINE: by Peter Young political Editor

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 278 words


   PASSENGERS were showered with shards of glass when louts launched a missile
attack on a Metro train.

Nobody was injured and the train continued its journey after passengers were
moved out of the damaged coach.

The attack happened in the early evening close to Walkergate Station,
Newcas-tle, on a train travelling to the coast.

Officials at Nexus, which runs the Metro, said the area was not particularly
prone to attacks.

But a new six-foot steel fence is to be built along the stretch of line between
Walkergate and Wallsend.

One passenger said: "There was an almighty bang and the window shattered. It's
amazing nobody was hurt."

A Nexus spokesman said: "We have occasional problems in that area but it is
unusual to have a missile attack."

The new fence is being fitted after complaints by people living nearby about
trespass and vandalism.

The old fence is being taken down and the new one will then take about two weeks
to build. The cost is £10,000 and will be paid jointly by Nexus and Newcastle
City Council.

Nexus revealed that it is investigating whether train windows can be coated with
a substance to stop glass shattering.

Drivers' cabs have specially toughened glass because of the particular dangers
they face but this costs about £700 to replace compared with £50 for an ordinary
train window.

"We are trying to source a coating which would hold the glass together and stop
it shattering over people though it would not stop it breaking," a spokesman
said. "However we have not found anything satisfactory. We have had people
struck by objects as well but we haven't had any serious injuries, thankfully."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MISSILE ATTACK - passengers were showered with glass when yobs hurled a
missile at a Metro train near Walkergate

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                January 15, 2000

MY BUS TERROR
 Hammer attack on driver

BYLINE: Exclusive By Ian Drury

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 149 words


A BUS driver today told how he was forced to quit his job after a passenger beat
him with a hammer.

Kevin Taylor said: "If my colleague hadn't pulled him off, he would have kept
hitting me.

"The children might now not have a dad and my wife would be a widow."

Mr Taylor, of Godfrey Street, Carlton, was smashed about the head by David
Bowers on Nottingham City Transport's No 19 service in Heathfield Estate.

Today, as his attacker started a four-year jail sentence, the 27-year-old father
of twins said he would never go on a bus again. He added: "Blood was pouring
from my head. I thought I was going to die. He went berserk."

Bowers, 35, of Clipstone Avenue, near the Arboretum, was jailed after pleading
guilty to causing actual bodily harm.

Sentencing him at Nottingham Crown Court, Judge Dudley Bennett said he was "a
potential danger to the public".

Full story: Page 9

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: FEAR: Kevin Taylor

                     Copyright 2000 Nottingham Evening Post

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           January 20, 2000, Thursday

CS GAS ATTACK TERROR AT CLUB

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 827 words


CLUBBERS fled from a Nuneaton nightspot fighting for breath and with sore eyes
after a CS gas canister was let off.

Managers of Millennium, in Leicester Road, helped revellers escape the fumes as
the gas spread through the club shortly after 1.15am today.

About 180 people had been in the club when the canister was let off. Most
quickly went to the exits and security staff and managers ensured there was no
panic.

A number of people complained of sore and red eyes and said they had difficulty
breathing but no one needed hospital treatment.

A 22-year-old man from Stoke, in Coventry, is being questioned by police.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           January 22, 2000, Saturday

ARMY MAN KILLED IN CAR BOMBS ATTACK;
 RETURN TO TERROR: BLASTS IN SPANISH CAPITAL SIGNAL END OF ETA CEASEFIRE

BYLINE: Mark Dowdney

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 142 words


A SPANISH Army officer was killed yesterday when two massive car bombs exploded
in Madrid.

It's feared they were planted by the Basque separatist group, ETA - marking the
end of a 14-month ceasefire.

Lieutenant-Colonel Pedro Antonio Blanco Garcia, 48, had just kissed his family
goodbye and was walking down a quiet street near Atletico Madrid's football
stadium when the first bomb went off.

The blast also injured a 14-year-old girl and two other pedestrians. Minutes
later, as emergency services arrived, a second bomb exploded 500 yards away. No
one else was hurt.

The neighbourhood was chosen because it houses hundreds of army families.

Jumpy police later shot a thief dead less than a mile away as he tried to break
into a locked car.

A defiant Government spokesman said: "ETA will never achieve its objectives
through violence."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2000 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                January 25, 2000

Serial attacker's decade of terror

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 300 words


A. 2am Tuesday, May 21, 1991.

A 36-year-old woman was abducted at knifepoint in Coronation Avenue, taken to a
lane off Combe Hay Lane in her own car and sexually assaulted and driven back to
where she was abducted.

B. 1am Wednesday, October 23, 1991.

An 18-year-old woman was grabbed by a man with a knife on Bathwick Hill, forced
into adjacent fields and sexually assaulted.

C. 6.15pm Monday, November 14, 1994.

A 26-year-old woman was abducted at knifepoint from Beckford Gardens, driven in
her own car to a car park in Claverton Down and sexually assaulted before being
driven back to the spot from where she was abducted.

D. 3am Saturday, September 28, 1996.

A 19-year-old woman was abducted from Lodgeside Avenue in Kingswood, taken in
her own car to Mangotsfield, raped and returned to Kingswood.

E. 6.55pm Thursday, October 31, 1996.

A white man wearing a black hooded thigh-length coat attempted to enter a car
driven by a 22-year-old woman in Sydney Mews.

F. 7.50pm Thursday, October 31, 1996.

A 16-year-old girl was forced into an alleyway off Rosemount Way and sexually
assaulted.

G. 6.15pm Thursday, January 30, 1997.

A 20-year-old woman was attacked in her own car in Abbey View Gardens, Widcombe.

H. 8.05pm Thursday, January 30, 1997.

A 23-year-old woman was grabbed in Junction Road, Oldfield Park.

I. Wednesday, February 12, 1997.

A 49-year-old woman was attacked in her own car in Raby Mews.

J. 6.40pm Tuesday, January 26, 1999.

A man entered the car of a 39-year-old woman at the junction of Forrester Lane
and Beckford Gardens but she managed to escape and cry for help.

K. 6.50pm Tuesday, January 26, 1999.

A 40-year-old woman was abducted in Prior Park Road, driven to Monkton Combe in
her own car and sexually assaulted.


LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Bristol United Press

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           January 25, 2000, Tuesday

Garda thwarts terror attack

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 122 words


Irish detectives claimed yesterday to have foiled a terror attack by dissident
IRA members when they seized a van packed with weapons and primed Semtex
explosive.

Garda explosives experts said that the high explosive was included in two
primed, armour-piercing bombs that could be fired from the back of lorries. It
is believed that the dissidents could have been planning to use the weapons for
an imminent attack in Northern Ireland.

The haul, seized in Co Tipperary, also included components for 12 similar bombs,
17 improvised hand grenades, detonating cord and two dozen home-made grenades
for use from a shoulder-held launcher. A Limerick man aged 39, who was driving
the van, was being held last night.


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           January 29, 2000, Saturday

SWORD MURDERER'S VICTIM FORMER CITY STUDENT;
 MP'S AIDE CUT DOWN IN SAMURAI ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Paul Hargrave

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 389 words


A POLITICAL aide hacked to death as he defended an MP from a frenzied sword
attack was a former Coventry student and city council candidate.

Andy Pennington, aged 39, died when the swordsman burst into the Cheltenham
constituency office of Liberal Democrat MP Nigel Jones, during a weekly surgery
yesterday afternoon.

Eye witnesses said they saw a 6ft man brandishing what looked like a Samurai
sword. One said the man "appeared to go crazy".

Detectives, who have launched a murder inquiry, say county councillor Mr
Pennington suffered at least 10 stab wounds.

The MP was cut on the arms and hands.

This afternoon police were questioning a man who was arrested nearby.

The victim was active on the political scene in Coventry in the early 80s.

Liberal Democrat officials today paid tribute to the man who studied a post
-graduate course at the then Coventry Lanchester Polytechnic.

Coventry party secretary Geoff Sewards said: "Andy was involved in student
politics and stood in the city council elections. He was very committed,
certainly a very political sort of person active in all fields.

"Politics seemed to be his first love and we were not surprised when he made a
career out of it because he had such potential." He said the Coventry party
would send its condolences.

Mr Pennington contested the Longford ward for the SDP-Liberal Alliance in the
1982 city council elections .

He left Coventry in the same year, aged 22, to join the movement's push in
Cheltenham. He later became a Gloucestershire county councillor.

Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy described the attack as "a wicked act".

Mr Jones, aged 51, was hurt as he tried to fend off blows from the swordsman and
was today recovering in hospital.

He raised the alarm at 4.30pm after staggering bloodied and stunned from the
office. A police armed response unit went to the scene.

Gloucestershire Deputy Chief Constable Tim Brain said: "We have some information
from Mr Jones, but the suspect in this matter will still have to be interviewed
later today.

"This was an unprecedented, frenzied attack on the people in that office."

The attacker, believed to be a local man known to police, had walked from the
office still holding the sword. He was arrested in the street outside a
department store.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POLITICAL CAREER: Andy Pennington was killed as he tried to protect;
Cheltenham MP Nigel Jones (inset)

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 29, 2000, Saturday

KREMLIN STRATEGY: RUSSIA 'PLANNED CHECHEN WAR BEFORE BOMBINGS';
 FORMER PRIME MINISTER REVEALS INVASION OF REPUBLIC WAS PREPARED MONTHS IN
ADVANCE OF TERRORIST ATTACKS ON APARTMENTS

BYLINE: Patrick Cockburn In Moscow

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1149 words


A SENIOR Russian leader says that Russia made its plans to invade Chechnya six
months before the bombing of civilian targets in Russia and the Chechen attack
on Dagestan which were the official pretext for launching the war.

His account wholly contradicts the official Russian version of the start of the
war, which claims that it was only as a result of "terrorist" attacks last
August and September that Russia invaded Chechnya. Sergei Stepashin, Russian
Interior and Prime Minister for most of last year, said the plan to send the
Russian army into Chechnya "had been worked out in March". He says he played a
central role in organising the military build up before the invasion, which "had
to happen even if there were no explosions in Moscow".

Mr Stepashin, in recent interviews with the daily Nezavissimaya Gazeta and
Interfax agency, says that as early as last March Russia intended to invade
Chechnya as far as the Terek river north of Grozny, the Chechen capital, in
August or September. In fact the Russian army crossed into Chechnya on 1
October.

Mr Stepashin, Interior Minister up to May and then Prime Minister until August,
was at the centre of Russian decision-making in both jobs. He says the inner
cabinet held a closed meeting with army and security chiefs in March to discuss
the operation against Chechnya.

The revelation by Mr Stepashin, that Russia planned to go to war long before it
has previously admitted, lends support to allegations in the Russian press that
the invasion of Dagestan in August and the bombings in September were arranged
by Moscow to justify its invasion of Chechnya.

Boris Kagarlitsky, a member of the Russian Academy of Sciences Institute of
Comparative Politics, writing in the weekly Novaya Gazeta, says that the
bombings in Moscow and elsewhere were arranged by the GRU (the Russian military
intelligence service). He says they used members of a group controlled by
Shirvani Basayev, brother of the Chechen warlord Shamil Basayev, to plant the
bombs. These killed 300 people in Buikask, Moscow and Volgodonsk in September.

Mr Kagarlitsky, who, from internal evidence in the article, is drawing on a
source with close knowledge of the GRU, says that invasion of Dagestan by Shamil
Basayev himself in August was pre-arranged with a senior Kremlin leader at a
meeting in France in July.

He says that the motive for launching war was the need for the political
leadership in the Kremlin to control the succession to President Boris Yeltsin.
By last summer Mr Yeltsin, a year from his retirement as president, was deeply
unpopular. His family and associates feared for their freedom and their fortunes
if a president hostile to their interests was elected this June.

In an unnoticed reference in Svenska Dagbladet, the Swedish daily, on 6 June
last year, the paper's Moscow correspondent Jan Blomgren wrote that one option
being considered by the Kremlin and its associates was "terror bombings in
Moscow which could be blamed on the Chechens". This was four months before the
first bomb. Mr Blomgren told the Independent that his sources, whom he cannot
name, were familiar with discussions within the political elite.

A month later, writes Mr Kagarlitsky, a meeting took place in the south of
France attended by Alexander Voloshin, head of the presidential administration,
Shamil Basayev, the Chechen warlord, and Anton Surikov, a former official
belonging to the army special services.

Both sides had interests in common. Mr Basayev's political fortunes had ebbed in
Chechnya and might be restored by a small war. The Kremlin was also in need of
an outside enemy. According to Mr Kagarlitsky they agreed that Mr Basayev would
launch a military foray into Dagestan and that Russia would respond by invading
northern Chechnya up to the Terek river. Participants in the meeting have all
denied it took place.

Events now moved quickly. On 8 August Mr Basayev's forces invaded Dagestan to
the east of Chechnya. On 9 August Vladimir Putin replaced Mr Stepashin as prime
minister. In Dagestan the invasion did not go as planned. Mr Basayev's forces
were beaten off but, according to the Russian magazine Profile, were virtually
escorted back to the Chechen border by two Russian helicopters.

Cooperation between Mr Basayev and the Russian army is not so surprising as it
sounds. In 1992-93 he is widely believed to have received assistance from the
GRU when he and his brother Shirvani fought in Abkhazia, a breakaway part of
Georgia. Russia did not want to act overtly against Georgia but covertly
supported a battalion of volunteers led by Mr Basayev.

It is now alleged that the cooperation between the GRU and Shirvani Basayev went
further. The invasion of Dagestan might be resented in Russia, but it was
insufficient to mobilise Russian public opinion. This only occurred when four
massive bombs exploded in Russia in September. The first, at a military housing
complex at Buinaksk in Dagestan, blew up on 4 September killing 83 people. The
next two were targeted at ordinary Russian civilians. On 8 and 13 September
explosives demolished two working- class apartment blocks in south Moscow
leaving 228 men, women and children dead. Three days later a truck exploded in
Volgodonsk.

It was the wave of anger and hatred among Russians against Chechens, universally
blamed for the attacks, that gave Mr Putin the backing he needed to invade
Chechnya. An unknown figure when appointed, with just 2 per cent support in the
polls, he was soon the leading candidate to win the presidency. In December Mr
Yeltsin was able to retire more gracefully than seemed possible six months
before and Mr Putin became acting president.

Mr Kagarlitsky now alleges that the GRU itself was behind the bombing. He says
it used Shirvani Basayev to carry it out "because he was more easily managed"
than his brother. It also appears that he himself and his men did not know
exactly why they had been recruited by the GRU for a special mission.

PUTIN IGNORES PEACE APPEAL

THE KREMLIN ignored an appeal by the UN chief, Kofi Annan, to stop the war in
Chechnya. Mr Annan apparently failed to make any headway at his meeting with the
acting president, Vladimir Putin, and other officials, at which he called for an
end to the four-month war and the protection of civilians who have been targeted
by Russian forces. "We are all against terrorism and terrorists should be rooted
out. However, the force used must be proportionate to these aims," Mr Annan said
afterwards. Russia's official line is that the offensive is to stamp out
terrorism in the Caucasus republic. Alexander Avdeyev, Deputy Foreign Minister,
said Russia would consider peace talks "parallel to military actions." But talks
would only be held with "true representatives of the Chechen population ... and
so far there is no one to negotiate with."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A Russian army helicopter landing in southern Chechnya this week as
federal forces advanced to fight the rebels in the capital, Grozny EPA

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 29, 2000, Saturday

SWORD TERROR ATTACK ON MP

BYLINE: Richard Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 131 words


AN MP was wounded and his male assistant stabbed to death yesterday when a
sword-wielding maniac burst into his constituency office.

Liberal Democrat MP Nigel Jones, 51, was slashed on the hand and forearm as he
tackled the 6ft-tall swordsman.

His assistant died of at least 10 wounds from the Samurai sword.

Mr Jones was treated in hospital after the attack at Cheltenham, Glos.

The attacker, who struck as Mr Jones was meeting councillors in his St George's
Street offices, was later arrested.

The MP escaped to a nearby guitar shop.

One witness, identified only as Andy, said he attacker was covered in blood.

"I followed him up to the town and phoned the police on my mobile," he said.

"He was arrested outside Littlewoods by unarmed officers."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACKED: MP Nigel Jones was wounded

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 29, 2000, Saturday

TERROR SWORD ATTACK ON MP;
 HE'S STABBED, MAN KILLED

BYLINE: Richard Smith And Rod Chaytor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 5

LENGTH: 273 words


AN MP was wounded and a council leader stabbed to death yesterday when a maniac
with a samurai sword burst into a constituency office.

Liberal Democrat Nigel Jones, 51, was slashed on the hand and forearm as he
tackled the 6ft swordsman.

Andrew Pennington, his assistant and Lib Dem county council leader, bled to
death after being stabbed at least 10 times as he tried to protect the MP.
Father-of-three Mr Jones was treated in hospital after the assault. Jobless
Robert Ashman, 49, was arrested by police near the scene in Cheltenham, Glos.

He was said to be angry at the collapse of his marriage and the repossession of
his house and had repeatedly asked the MP for help.

The attack at 4.30pm came as Mr Jones was talking to Lib Dem councillors at his
offices. A passer-by said: "There was absolute mayhem outside. It seems a bloke
with a sword just burst in because he had some kind of grievance."

Jeremy Whales, who served as Cheltenham mayor last year, said: "It does not
surprise me that he intervened - that is Andy. He is not the sort of man who
would walk away from a situation like that. He was a courageous man - a fighter
- long before this tragedy. He would never walk away from a fight."

Home Secretary Jack Straw said: "I share the deep sense of shock that everyone
will feel at the death of Nigel Jones's assistant following this horrific
attack. We send our deepest sympathy to his family and colleagues.

"I wish Nigel a speedy recovery.

"Members of Parliament of all parties in this country are very accessible to
their constituents and this makes this tragedy all the more dreadful."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ORDEAL: Nigel Jones

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 29, 2000, Saturday

TERROR SWORD ATTACK ON MP;
 HE'S STABBED, MAN KILLED

BYLINE: Richard Smith And Rod Chaytor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 5

LENGTH: 274 words


AN MP was wounded and a council leader stabbed to death yesterday when a sword
wielding maniac burst into a constituency office.

Liberal Democrat Nigel Jones, 51, was slashed on the hand and forearm as he
tackled the 6ft swordsman.

Andrew Pennington, the MP's assistant and Lib Dem county council leader, died of
at least 10 wounds from the samurai sword.

Father-of-three Mr Jones was treated in hospital after the horrific assault.
Jobless Robert Ashman, 49, was arrested by police near the scene in Cheltenham,
Glos.

He was angry at the collapse of his marriage and the repossession of his house
and had repeatedly asked the MP for help, his distraught parents told The
Mirror.

Dad Geoff, 75, said: "Getting his house back was his obsession, it was his life.
Rob was always getting Nigel Jones to help him with his battle. He told us Mr
Jones was very helpful and even asked questions in the Commons for him."

Mr Ashman had an ex-wife Beryl and grown-up daughters Lucy and Kirsti. Mum Ivy,
73, said: "I fear my son just snapped under the pressure. In the last year he's
lost his home, his job and his family. He's lost everything - everything's gone
wrong for him.

"He wouldn't hurt anybody - he had such a kind nature and he is not a violent
person."

The drama began at 4.30pm as Mr Jones was talking to Lib Dem councillors at his
offices. A passerby said: "There was absolute mayhem outside. It seems a bloke
with a sword just burst in because he had some kind of grievance."

Lib-Dem leader Charles Kennedy said his MPs' open door policy had its dangers -
"you never know who's going to come in next".

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ORDEAL: Nigel Jones

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 29, 2000, Saturday

TERROR SWORD ATTACK ON MP;
 HE'S STABBED, MAN KILLED

BYLINE: Richard Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 319 words


AN MP was wounded and his male assistant stabbed to death yesterday when a
sword- wielding maniac burst into his constituency office.

Liberal Democrat MP Nigel Jones, 51, was slashed on the hand and forearm as he
tackled the 6ft-tall swordsman.

His assistant died of at least 10 wounds from the samurai sword. Father-of
-three Mr Jones was treated in hospital after the horrific attack at Cheltenham,
Glos. The attacker was later arrested by police.

The drama began at 4.30pm as Mr Jones was talking to local Liberal Democrat
councillors in the offices in St George's Street.

The MP escaped to a nearby guitar shop where assistant manager Ben Fielding
tended his wounds. A passer-by said: "There was absolute

mayhem outside the office, across the road from the magistrates court.

"It seems a bloke with a sword just burst into the offices because he had some
kind of grievance."

The MP was taken by ambulance to Cheltenham General Hospital where he was said
to be "fine." One witness, identified only as Andy, told how he saw a middle
-aged man with a Samurai sword in the office.

Andy, 39, said: "He was covered in blood. I backed out and he followed me. He
hid his sword behind his back and turned left up Chiltern High Street.

"I followed him up to the town and phoned the police on my mobile. He was
arrested outside Littlewoods by unarmed officers."

Lib-Dem leader Charles Kennedy spoke last night of his shock.

He said the "open door" policy adopted by his MPs benefited the community, but
also had its dangers.

"You never know who is going to come in next," he said. Yesterday's rampage
comes two months after a naked man armed with a 3ft samurai sword and a knife
burst into a Catholic church at Thornton Heath, Surrey, and slashed at
worshippers, injuring 11.

Mr Jones, who recently separated from his wife, has a 17-year-old son, Sam, and
twin daughters.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ORDEAL: Nigel Jones

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                January 31, 2000

Larks' twin terrors go on the attack;
 Screwfix preview

SECTION: Sport, Pg.9

LENGTH: 144 words


LARKHALL Athletic boss Paul Rankin is banking on his strikeforce of Andy Towers
and Matt Ward to cause problems at high-flying Keynsham Town tonight (7.30pm).

Mid-table Larks travel to Crown Fields with a full squad to select from, except
for Wes Randall who is attending a funeral. Lewis Goldring will join the squad.

And Larks' chief Rankin said: "I think they will be worried about the pace of
Towers and Ward. Also, our midfield has the ability to match anyone's in this
division and both Joe Bowen and Jim McLay are playing well.

"Defensively we have looked strong in the last couple of games and I wouldn't be
surprised if we got a result down there.''

Keynsham meanwhile, will have ex-Clevedon Town man Richard Ford in their squad
for the clash, while Stuart Palmer has rejoined them after a spell away from
Western League football.


LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Bristol United Press

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                February 2, 2000

COUPLE'S TERROR IN ROAD RAGE ORDEAL;
 Attack 'like something out of the movies'

BYLINE: NIGEL DANDO

SECTION: News, Pg.2

LENGTH: 266 words




A COUPLE have told how they were terrorised by a road rage thug as they cowered
in their car with their 11-month-old baby daughter.

The couple, from Oldland, were driving through Mangotsfield when a stolen white
Escort van came up behind them.

The van followed their blue Metro through the village and then scorched past
them in Carsons Road.

When the 21-year-old driver of the car flashed his headlights, the van screeched
to a halt and a man in his twenties jumped out.

The car driver's 20-year-old partner said: "The van driver approached our car
and pulled out something that looked like a hammer.

"We locked all the doors and then just sat there as he banged on the car.

"He just missed one of the windows next to where our baby was sitting in a child
seat.

"My partner decided to turn the car around and head for a police station, but
then the other driver got back into his van and reversed at high speed and hit
the back of our car."

The impact smashed the Metro's rear window and left the car battered and
buckled.

The woman, who asked not to be named, said: "It was like something out of the
movies. It felt unreal.

"Our baby was absolutely petrified and was screaming. She went to Frenchay
Hospital afterwards for a check-up, but she is all right now.

"This all happened because my partner flashed his lights at the other driver
because of the speed at which the van was being driven.

"I can hardly believe that it led to such a horrible incident. I'm just grateful
our baby wasn't hurt."

The stolen van was later found abandoned in Downend.


LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Bristol United Press

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                February 7, 2000

Rig man tells of attack terror

SECTION: Crime: Assault, Pg.2

LENGTH: 340 words


A YOUNG Aberdeen oil worker today told how weapon-wielding thugs bashed in his
skull and stamped on his head.

The single man was left lying in a pool of blood after the vicious attack which
is thought to have involved something like a cricket ball in a sock.

Today he said he was lucky to be alive after the horrific incident.

It left him with a fractured skull, a fractured cheek bone and severe bruising
all over his body.

The 22-year-old offshore worker - who was based at Portlethen - had been for a
midweek drink and a game of pool with his boss at the Escobar in Bridge Street
when the attackers struck.

The young worker - who has asked not to be named - claims the incident was
unprovoked.  "All I can remember is leaving the bar and two men coming at us,"
he said.

"My supervisor told them we were just out for a quiet drink and didn't want any
trouble.

"The next thing I was on the floor getting kicked. They just kept kicking me.

"I must have lost consciousness because the next thing I remember is being in a
kebab or pizza shop and someone wiping blood off me.

"I later found out that a witness said they had been jumping up and down on my
head and kicking me in the face.

"I was told there was blood all over the street.

"Doctors said they must have used something like a cricket ball in a sock.

"It left an imprint on my head five centimetres in radius."

After the attack the young oil worker, who comes from Dundee, went to the home
of his boss who was also injured.

It wasn't until the next day that he realised how badly he was hurt.

He explained: "All I wanted to do was to get away from the scene of the attack.

"I wanted peace and quiet.

"I was more worried about my boss who had a gouge out of his head. But when I
woke up the next day I was in a terrible state.

"I went to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary.  I couldn't believe it when the doctor said
I had a fractured skull.

"A blow to the head like that is enough to kill anybody."

The young man now faces surgery to rebuild his broken cheekbone.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2000 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           February 8, 2000, Tuesday

TERROR SUSPECT IN SNOOKER CUE ATTACK

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 776 words


A Staffordshire man suspected of being a terrorist was jailed yesterday for
attacking a man he claimed called him "Semtex Sam".

Samuel Black-Carroll inflicted "wicked" head injuries on Mr Ivan Shirley when he
attacked him with a weapon, thought to be the butt end of a snooker cue,
Wolverhampton Crown Court was told.

Assistant Recorder John Aucott told Black-Carroll (47) he accepted he had been
subjected to verbal abuse.

"But there was no justification in allowing it to boil over into violence," he
added.

"You exhibited all the hallmarks of a terrorist, an occupation you profess to
despise."

He jailed Black-Carroll for two years and eight months.

Black-Carroll, who was arrested in 1998 as a suspected terrorist by the RUC but
was released without charge, had been convicted by a jury at Stafford Crown
Court of wounding.

Black-Carroll, of Redbrook Lane, Brereton, Rugeley, had also been convicted at
the end of his trial of two charges of criminal damage.

Flat fire rescue

Firemen saved the life of an Oldbury man after battering down the door to rescue
him from his smoke-filled tower block flat.

Mr Paul Waldron, aged 24, was fast asleep in his seventh-floor flat at Alfred
Gunn House, Thompson Road, Langley, and was unaware that his kitchen was on
fire. Neighbours alerted by the sound of Mr Waldron's smoke detector called the
fire service late last night to the ten-storey tower block.

Firemen broke down the door of the flat and crews wearing breathing apparatus
discovered Mr Waldron asleep on the settee in the lounge with his frightened dog
lying beside him.

Warehouse fall

A man was fighting for his life in hospital after falling 30ft through a
warehouse roof in Birmingham.

The 40-year-old man, who has not been named, was repairing the roof at the
Parcelforce Distribution centre in Nova Scotia Street, Digbeth, when he stepped
backwards and fell through a sheet of perspex roofing.

He is now on a life-support machine at Birmingham Heartlands Hospital suffering
from severe head, back and internal injuries.

Oh no they didn't

Hundreds of fans of the band Yes were turned away from Symphony Hall in
Birmingham last night after the progressive rockers cancelled their appearance
just two hours before they were due on stage.

The group's equipment was marooned in Dublin - where they just played a concert
- due to bad weather and could not be shipped to Birmingham in time for last
night's performance.

Disappointed fans will all have their ticket money refunded as there are no
plans to reschedule the cancelled date. Tonight's Yes concert at Symphony Hall
is going ahead as usual.

A Symphony Hall spokeswoman said: "We're obviously very disappointed for the
fans who were let down but there was really nothing anyone could do. Yes made
heroic efforts to get the equipment over in time but the weather, and time, was
against them."

Church safety cash

Three churches are now safer places to visit thanks to a community project which
is the first of its kind in Birmingham.

The Selly Oak Community Safety Project, which was set up with pounds 250,000 of
Government funding, operates in a suburb which has one of the highest burglary
rates in the city.

The scheme has given a grant of pounds 2,700 to St Stephen's Church in Elmdon
Road, the Church Centre in Alton Road and St Wulstan's in Alton Road, Selly Oak.

Post Script

The Mini has been voted car of the 20th century and to mark the fact one in mint
condition will be sealed in a special Millennium vault to ensure it is around in
the year 3,000.

The Belfry shopping centre in Redhill, Surrey, has purchased one of the classic
Birmingham-produced vehicles, which will be specially preserved with the help of
scientific experts, before being sealed in the vault.

The car was selected as the top vehicle of the century in a nationwide poll of
drivers.

The metallic blue car, registration D576OOE, will be entombed in the 100 cubic
-square-metre vault at Guildford Castle, Surrey on March 3.

Belfry shopping centre manager Jonathan Edwards said: "The car will be on
display at the shopping centre from Valentine's Day on February 14, prior to
going off for some specialist treatment to ensure that it stays intact during
the 1,000 year journey."

Experts will have to remove the perishable tyres and rubber trim before the
vehicle is stored in the air-tight vault.

The vault will also house letters to people of the year 3000 as part of a
project organised by Royal Mail.

Those who have already submitted letters include Tony Blair, William Hague, Vera
Lynn and Barry Norman.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           February 8, 2000, Tuesday

STALKER ADMITS TOOTHPASTE TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 338 words


A man stalked lone women before slapping them in the face with a piece of paper
covered in toothpaste, a court heard.

Mark Weston, who said he felt elated after the attacks, was yesterday put on
probation for two years at Birmingham Crown Court.

Mr Recorder Anthony Smith QC said: "It is a shameful thing to do because I fully
believe that everyone of these girls was for a brief instance in time utterly
terrified and that is as bad as making them think you are going to rape and kill
them."

But he said he accepted Weston was a responsible man and told him he should put
the offences behind him.

Weston (32) of Rhydygalfe Caravan Park, Pontwell, Llandysol, Dyfed, admitted
five charges of assault.

Miss Madhu Rai, prosecuting, said the offences all occurred in the early hours
of the morning against lone females.

She said the first attack happened in 1996 when Weston approached a woman from
behind in Digbeth, Birmingham, and left her shocked and with stinging eyes
before running off.

Miss Rai said all the other attacks were committed last year, the first occuring
in Swansea when the victim was left screaming hysterically.

Miss Rai said a student went into the baby changing room at Heathrow Airport and
was attacked after seeing Weston in a mirror behind her.

Weston's fourth victim was assaulted in a park in Coventry.

Miss Rai said the last victim had walked through Paradise Forum in Birmingham
city centre and had got as far as Brindley Drive when she was attacked with the
toothpaste.

Security guards eventually detained Weston who was found to be carrying two
tubes of toothpaste and half an empty tube.

Weston admitted he had followed his victims, sometimes for up to ten minutes,
before pouncing. He said the attacks gave him a momentary feeling of elation
followed by guilt and then remorse.

Mr Stefan Kolodynski, defending, described Weston as an inadequate person who
had led a sheltered life.

He said the attacks had never escalated into anything worse.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Remorse: Mark Weston

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                February 9, 2000

City knife attack terror
 Street assaults link

SECTION: Crime: Assault, Pg.3

LENGTH: 403 words


A DESPERATE knifeman brought terror to Aberdeen today.

Police are probing a string of attacks which took place in a small area of the
city.

The latest incident happened when a woman had her handbag snatched in Mount
Street around 1pm.

The woman was knocked to the ground and although uninjured, she was badly
shaken.

The attack is being linked to a series of similar assaults yesterday.

They occurred during a 10-hour armed crime spree involving four separate
victims.

In the most serious, the attacker is understood to have held a blade to a taxi
driver's throat in Westburn Road.

The cabbie fought back and was slightly injured but did not need treatment.

The thug later threatened to use the same weapon in a bag snatch and robbery
bid.

Earlier in the day, a woman was injured when she had her handbag snatched as she
got into her car in Charlotte Gardens around 12.30pm.

A member of the public pursued the man along Craigie Street, George Street and
Gerrard Street, and retrieved her bag. Police want to trace the victim.

The same assailant struck again at 9.40pm in Charlotte Mews when a 35-year-old
woman was slightly injured and her bag snatched when she was threatened with a
knife.

And at 10.20pm, a 20-year -old student was the victim of an attempted robbery.
He was threatened with a knife by the man in Rosemount Viaduct. His attacker
fled down Jack's Brae.

Police hunting the blond culprit, who has a stud in one eyebrow, believe he is
responsible for all four incidents which happened between lunchtime and 10.20pm
yesterday. He failed to get any cash.

Detective Inspector Eric Leslie said today: "Thankfully none of the victims was
badly injured, but we are treating these incidents very seriously."In each one,
a knife was presented or its use was threatened against the victims and this
causes us a great deal of concern.  We think the robberies have been carried out
by the same man." and we want to hear from anyone who either witnessed the
crimes or thinks they know the identity of this man."He added: "Given the
description of the man in today's attack and the location of the robbery, there
is a good chance it may be linked to the robberies yesterday."The thug is 16-22,
of slim to medium build, 5ft 7in to 5ft 11in with short blond hair and a stud in
one eyebrow. He was wearing pale, scruffy light coloured trousers, a dark jacket
and possibly a dark jumper or shirt.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2000 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               February 10, 2000

Ordeal of girl, 15, in knife terror;
 HUNT FOR ATTACKER

BYLINE: Barry Leighton

SECTION: News, Pg.11

LENGTH: 286 words


POLICE last night appealed for help in their hunt for a sinister knifeman who
left a terrified teenager frightened for her life and nursing a five- inch wound
on her stomach.

The 15-year-old Swindon schoolgirl was grabbed as she was walking along a busy
street and hauled into an alleyway by a man who then produced a knife.

He threatened the frightened youngster before running the tip of the blade along
her midriff, leaving a long but superficial wound.

Swindon police spokesperson Alvina Kumar said: "This was an extremely traumatic
ordeal for the victim who was put in fear of her life.

Distressed

"Fortunately the young girl managed to escape serious injury and there is no
doubt that the consequences could have been far worse.

"She is very distressed and shocked."

The attack happened at around 5pm on Saturday but the girl was in such shock
that she did not report the incident until two days later.

The youngster, who lives in the Upper Stratton area of Swindon, was in Clive
Parade, Cricklade Road, when she was grabbed by a man who forced her to walk to
an alleyway next to the Moonrakers public house.

He made verbal threats before cutting her stomach, but the plucky youngster, who
did not require hospital treatment, put up a struggle and was able to break
loose and run away.

The girl had earlier seen the attacker loitering by the telephone kiosk near the
Clive Parade shops before he walked over to her.

The knifeman is described as white, between 5ft 8-5ft 10ins tall, slim, aged 18
to 19 with brown hair cut in a curtain style.

Police want to hear from anyone who saw him hanging around the area or who
recognises his description. Crimestoppers: 0800-555111


LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Bristol United Press

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                               February 15, 2000

Masked raiders attack staff in golf club terror

BYLINE: By Rena Duncan

SECTION: News;999;Murders/Violent Crime, Pg.2

LENGTH: 258 words


A GANG of masked raiders smashed their way into a seaside golf club and
assaulted two members of staff before snatching jewellery and cash.

The terrifying ordeal happened at 3.45am yesterday as a steward and a barman at
the Links Golf Club, near Flamborough, slept in residential accommodation
provided at the club.

Both workers were attacked with what seemed to be the butt ends of pool or
snooker cues before the raiders grabbed what cash and jewellery they could
before fleeing.

One of the injured men was so severely beaten in the assault that he needed
treatment at Bridlington Hospital for a broken nose.

His colleague suffered bruised ribs, but did not need hospital treatment.

Det Sergeant Jim Connor said: 'It would appear that the intruders knew where
they were going because they forced an entry at the flat door.

'One member of staff received facial injuries and was treated at hospital.

'The other staff member had minor injuries and did not need hospital attention.

'Some items of jewellery and a small amount of cash were stolen.i

He added: 'Perhaps their intention was to go for something more significant and
they had to settle for what they could find at the time

'We are appealing for any information about this incident and would like to hear
from anyone who saw anything unusual on the Flamborough road in the early hours
of Monday morning to contact us.i

No one was available at the golf club for comment.

Anyone who has any information is being urged to contact Bridlington Police on
(01262) 402700.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2000 Hull Daily Mail

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                     February 16, 2000, Wednesday Edition 1

Teenager's terror as pet dog attacks -;
Youth needed more than 100 stitches after being mauled by bull mastif

BYLINE: by Peter Dickinson

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 390 words


   LUCKY to be alive schoolboy Sean Young told of his dog attack terror today
and how he feared he would be killed by a crazed family pet.

Recovering at home after four days in hospital, the 14-year-old said: "He went
for my arms first and then worked down to my legs.

"I was just in shock and screaming.

"I thought it was going to be the end of me. He was was out of control."

Sean was at a friend's house when the horrific attack took place and the
12-stone bull mastiff called Kaiser pounced on him.

Today the dog was in a police pound as its owner Carol McQueen fought against it
being destroyed.

Reason

Miss McQueen, 38, who has another mastiff called Kristie, said: "Sean is like a
son to me and he loved that dog.

"I can't excuse my dog for what he has done but nobody can deny that there must
have been a reason for the dog to attack him. I don't want the dog to be
destroyed. I would like him to go to a new home."

Sean, of Horton Avenue, Shiremoor, North Tyneside, was at Miss McQueen's house
in Whitley Bay when Kaiser, who he often took for walks, attacked.

He had been with Miss McQueen's daughter Samantha, 15, and two-year-old son
Jordan when Kaiser lunged at him.

He said: "He went for Samantha first and I pulled the dog back.

"It turned and just looked me straight in the eyes and then attacked. I tried to
protect Sam. Anybody would have done the same.

"The other dog Kristie had barged Kaiser away from me and she was standing in
front of me growling at him. Kristie saved my life."

A police spokesman said: "The dog is in police kennels and the owner has been
reported for the offence of keeping a dangerous dog.

"She is resisting the dog being destroyed, so there may be a court case to
decide the animal's fate. Inquiries are going on to discover what happened at
the house on Friday evening." Sean's parents, Janice and Geoff, stayed at his
bedside at Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary where he had surgery before
being released last night.

Doctors put more than 100 stitches into deep cuts in his arms and legs and said
he will need plastic surgery and further treatment.

His headteacher at Monkseaton Community High School, Paul Kelley, said: "We are
upset hear about Sean and wish him a speedy recovery. Our thoughts are prayers
go to his friends and family."

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SAVAGED - bandaged Sean Young back home today after the attack by the
bull mastif which tore big chunks of flesh from his arms and legs leaving him
needing more than 100 stitches in the many wounds left by the animal

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           February 21, 2000, Monday

POSTMASTER ATTACKED IN RAID TERROR;
 DAD BEATEN UNCONSCIOUS AS HE WAS LOCKING UP

BYLINE: Steve Evans

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 328 words


A BEDWORTH sub-postmaster was beaten unconscious and left tied up by robbers who
stole thousands of pounds from the safe.

Father-of-three Melvin Allen, who runs Allens News and Pine Tree Road sub-post
office in Pine Tree Road, Bedworth, was attacked as he was locking up on
Saturday evening.

Mr Allen, well known in the Bedworth community for his shirt sponsorship of the
Bedworth Eagles Under-11s soccer team, was today still recovering from an ordeal
which saw him need treatment at Nuneaton's George Eliot Hospital.

The 44-year-old was attacked at about 6pm by the two raiders. One of them was
wearing a full-face crash helmet.

Insp David Barratt, of Warwickshire police, said: "They forced him to switch off
the alarm and open the safe.

"They then assaulted him again, knocking him unconscious. When he woke, he found
himself tied up."

Mr Allen struggled free and untie himself, then dialled 999.

Police said thousands of pounds was stolen.

Mr Allen was only able to get a description of one of his attackers.

He is said to be white, 5ft 9in to 6ft, slim with blue eyes and clean shaven.

He was wearing a full-face crash helmet, jacket and gloves.

Mr Allen, a father of three boys all under the age of 10, was today recovering
at home.

His wife, Lorraine, said: "He was beaten up quite badly. It was savage and
unneccesary. They constantly hit him and he's in a bad way today with lots of
aches and pains.

"Melvin's dad used to run the post office and he took over from him. The robbery
has shocked the community. The phone hasn't stopped ringing and loads of cards
have been sent."

Detectives are appealing for information from anyone who saw the two men acting
suspiciously near the sub-post office shortly before 6pm.

A Crimestoppers reward of up to pounds 500 is on offer to anyone offering
information leading to a conviction.

Call police on 01203 641111 or the Crimestoppers hot-line on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                     February 23, 2000, Wednesday Edition 1

Terror sex attack on girl

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 186 words


   A TEENAGER was subjected to a sex attack by a knife-wielding attacker.

The 16-year-old girl had been walking home late on Sunday when a man pounced on
her near a pedestrian subway in Elliott Terrace, Concord, Washington.

Police say he threatened her and then forced her to spend an hour talking to him
on a grassed area nearby.

She finally persuaded him to let her go but as she walked off he lunged at her
and committed what detectives describe as a "serious assault".

Football

A spokesman said the youngster was left badly traumatised by the incident and is
being interviewed by trained officers.

The attacker is said to be about 40-years-old, 5ft 6ins and of medium build with
short, dark hair brushed forward. He has a scar on his right cheek.

He was wearing a Sunderland football shirt, navy blue three-quarter length
jacket with a draw-string waist, trainers and dark blue tracksuit bottoms.

Police want to speak to anyone on the 194 bus which left Hetton-le-Hole at 10pm
and arrived at Concord at 10.30pm. Anyone who can help is asked to ring [0191]
454 7555, ext 66426.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     February 23, 2000, Wednesday Edition 1

ETA under fire as car bomb kills two -;
Politician and guard die in terror attack

BYLINE: by Geoff Meade

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 63

LENGTH: 405 words


   Terror group ETA was last night blamed for the death of a leading Basque
politician and his bodyguard who were blown up by a car bomb in a north-east
Spanish town.

The bomb exploded in Vitoria, near the seat of the Basque regional government,
killing Fernando Buesa, who opposes Basque separatism, and his police guard.

The explosion occurred shortly after 3.30pm, British time, on a university
campus about 200 yards from the headquarters of the president of the Basque
government.

Buesa was walking near his home with his bodyguard when the bomb detonated.

There was no claim of responsibility, but Interior Minister Jaime Mayor Oreja
had no qualms about blaming the armed Basque separatist group ETA for the
attack.

People in Spain and the Basque region "must understand the macabre lesson ETA is
trying to teach us", Mayor Oreja said. He broke off a visit to the Mediterranean
resort of Benidorm to fly to Vitoria.

The blast shook the regional government headquarters as officials were inside
holding a press conference.

Firefighters were soon at the scene to extinguish the fire in the car which had
held the bomb and in other cars parked nearby.

Spanish television showed footage of a bloodied body lying on a grassy area of
the campus.

Fernando Buesa was the leader of the Alava provincial chapter of the Basque
Socialist Party. Vitoria is capital of Alava province and of the Basque region.

ETA announced in December it was ending a 14-month-old ceasefire and warned it
would resume attacks.

The organisation, which has killed nearly 800 people since 1968, was blamed for
a car bomb blast in Madrid on January 21 in which an army colonel was killed.

Although most of its victims have been security force members, in recent years
ETA has begun targeting members of Spain's governing Popular Party and the
leading opposition Socialist Party, to which Buesa belonged.

Yesterday's attack came as Spain gears up for general elections on March 12.

Buesa's party opposes Basque separatism and favours instead the current system
of broad Basque autonomy granted by the Spanish constitution.

The regional government is controlled by the moderate Basque Nationalist Party,
which says it supports Basque independence but opposes ETA's violent methods.

He was among some 10,000 people who took part in an anti-ETA demonstration on
Saturday in the nearby Basque city of San Sebastian.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bomb scene: A Basque Ertzaintza policeman walks away for the burning
cars after yesterday's blast in Vitoria, north-east Spain.

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           February 25, 2000, Friday

SHOP BOSS KNIFE ATTACK TERROR;
 LUNG PUNCTURED IN CORNER STORE STABBING

BYLINE: Hayley Cuthbertson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 275 words


THE manager of a Coventry corner shop was stabbed three times in a terrifying
armed robbery.

One wound punctured a lung. The victim's wife was also stabbed by the robber and
needed hospital treatment.

The attacker burst into Sunny's Convenience Store in Bennetts Road North at
Keresley at about 5.30pm yesterday, brandishing a knife.

He got behind the counter of the store and when the couple challenged him he
lunged at them with the weapon.

The man fled with an unknown quantity of cash from the till.

Manager Ray Budasha, aged 52, was this afternoon in a stable condition at
Nuneaton's George Eliot Hospital.

His wife Barbara, aged 48, was released after being treated for an arm wound.

Today Mrs Budasha was back behind the counter. She said she and her husband had
been deeply shocked but she had decided to keep the store open.

"You've got to get on with it, haven't you," she said.

Areas of the store were taped off this morning as police examined the scene.
Shocked local customers had their goods handed to them over the counter.

One said: "I couldn't believe it when I heard. I think she is very brave to have
opened up today."

Police believe the knifeman got into an old model Ford Fiesta parked nearby. It
is thought a second man was waiting in the car, which had light paintwork.

The thief is Asian, in his mid-20s, 5ft 10in tall and of medium build. He was
wearing a navy blue hooded anorak.

An Asian in the car has a full beard and was wearing a blue turban.

A West Midlands police spokesman said: "This was a particularly vicious attack
and we need to catch those responsible."

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VIOLENCE AT SUNNY'S: The store at Keresley where the manager and his
wife faced a thief with a knife. Both were stabbed and needed hospital treatment

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          February 26, 2000, Saturday

THUG JAILED AFTER TERROR DEATH ATTACK ON OAP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 239 words


A THUG who frightened a 59-year-old man to death while trying to rob him of his
benefit book was jailed for seven and a half years yesterday. John Keelan, 35,
punched and kicked his defenceless victim who dropped dead with a heart attack.
Keelan launched his attack despite being warned Peter McMahon had a bad heart
and was just out of hospital, the High Court in Glasgow heard.

As Mr McMahon collapsed in McFarlane Street, Bridgeton, Glasgow, Keelan was
grabbed by passers-by. Keelan also attacked and tried to rob 80-year-old retired
citycouncil driver Robert Adamson in Glasgow Green nine months later while on
bail. Mr Adamason was saved by prostitute Linda McVey, 35, who knew the
pensioner. She told Raymond Doherty, QC, prosecuting:

"I sometimes spoke to the old man who was lonely and sat in the park to pass the
time. "When Keelan attacked him I told him to leave the old man alone and he
banged me against a wall before I went to get the police."

The attack was witnessed by men on scaffolding working on the High Court
building across from the scene. They gave evidence in the three-day trial. A
jury took less than an hour to unanimously find Keelan guilty of the culpable
homicide of Mr McMahon, of BellStreet, Glasgow, last February, and attacking Mr
Admason and Miss McVey.

The judge, Lord Prosser, told Keelan, whose address was given as care of
Barlinnie Prison, both crimes had been "thoroughly nasty".

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2000 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           February 29, 2000, Tuesday

PIZZA RIDERS FALL VICTIM TO GANGS;
 POLICE FEAR 'REIGN OF TERROR' AFTER ATTACKS AND THEFTS

BYLINE: Claire Barratt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 339 words


POLICE are stepping up their hunt for a gang of youths who are repeatedly
robbing pizza delivery workers in Nuneaton.

The action follows two attacks on teenage boys in the past two weeks, which have
left the employees from Domino's pizza unhurt, but badly shaken.

On February 12, at around 7pm, a pizza delivery boy was riding his moped to an
address in Somerset Drive, Stockingford, when he was stopped by a group of eight
youths.

They threatened him with a screwdriver and demanded he hand over his 49cc moped.

The gang then rode off with the bike. The rider was unhurt.Police are worried
that the group of youths are starting a "reign of terror" on the pizza delivery
workers.

Det Con Liz Rogers, of northern area police, said: "We are appealing to the
public to look out for these pizza boys as they are becoming victims of a
serious crime.

"They are going about their job trying to earn some money and then are being set
upon by youths with nothing better to do with their time.

"These workers are vulnerable and it is very disturbing to hear what is
happening to them and it needs to be stopped.

A similar attack was carried out on a teenage pizza delivery worker on Saturday
at around 8pm.

A gang of six youths stood in the middle of Balmoral Road, in Nuneaton, blocking
the teenager's path as he attempted to deliver food for Domino's Pizza.

He was forced to stop and then pushed to the ground. His scooter was then ridden
off.

The boy was not hurt and the bike was recovered at 10.30pm in Ludford Road.

DC Rogers added: "The delivery boys have told us that they have seen a gang of
lads hanging around regularly and they have tried to avoid them in the past.

"However, it is quite obvious that there is no getting away and they are in
danger.

"This kind of behaviour needs to be stopped before one of the employees is
seriously hurt."

Anyone with information about the robberies should phone Nuneaton police on
01203 641111 or the Crimestoppers hotline on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            March 2, 2000, Thursday

CRIMEBEAT: WOMAN IN ROAD RAGE ATTACK TERROR AT LIGHTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 200 words


MOTORISTS who saw a man leap from his car and attack the vehicle in front are
being sought by Coventry police.

He caused pounds 250 damage to a woman's car after losing his temper in a
traffic queue.

She had halted her silver Peugeot 205 at temporary traffic lights in Binley Road
at about 5.15pm on Sunday, February 6.

A large silver saloon was immediately behind her at the lights.

The man at the wheel began to sound the horn, than jumped out of his car and
started swearing and shouting at the woman.

Police said he lashed out at the door on the driver's side, denting it.When the
terrified woman picked up a mobile phone to dial 999, the man ran back to his
car and drove off.

PC Sue Hodson said: "There were a lot of people around at the time and many of
them were watching the man. We are hoping they will come forward and help us to
identify him.

"It was a very frightening experience for the woman. The man has caused a
considerable amount of damage to her car."

The attacker is white, in his 30s, with mousy, unkempt hair. He is about 5ft 9in
and of average build.

Anyone with information is urged to contact police at Chace Avenue, on 01203
539040.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 March 3, 2000

'Rape terror' nun attacked herself

BYLINE:  By Mike Sullivan, Crime Reporter

LENGTH: 206 words



   A NUN who claimed she was raped and mutilated made up the story after
stabbing herself as a desperate "cry for help", cops revealed yesterday.

   Experts found she suffers Munchhausen's Syndrome - where victims injure
themselves to gain sympathy.

   An innocent 37-year-old man who was arrested is now in line for an apology
from detectives.

   The nun, in her 30s, said she was attacked by a knife-wielding monster on her
way home from a charity party just before Christmas.

   She was found half-dead after losing three pints of blood in an alley in
Finsbury Park, North London.

   Fifty cops quizzed 100 people during the following investigation. But the
chief suspect - who they locked up based on the nun's description - was gay and
had a cast-iron alibi.

   Attention then turned to the sister, who belongs to an order based in Essex.
Cops found she was a heavy drinker - she was drunk the night of the "rape" - and
a psychological profiler concluded her tale was false.

   Now the Pounds 50,000 probe is closed and officers are deciding whether to
charge her with wasting police time. She is staying in a psychiatric unit.

   A police source said last night: "This is a very sad case as well as being
extremely serious."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2000 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 5, 2000, Sunday

ULSTER TERROR GROUPS 'PLOTTING NEW ATTACKS'

BYLINE: Martin Hickman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 360 words


PARAMILITARIES in Northern Ireland are making preparations to unleash fresh
violence, a Home Office report has warned. Terror groups have been carrying out
arms training and weapons seizures have not dropped during the past year.

Ulster Unionist security spokesman Ken Maginnis said the report was "very
disturbing". He told Radio 4's Today programme: "Some of the finds of weapons
and explosives of recent days have been very clearly tied to Provisional IRA.

"The language that is being used by Sinn Fein, particularly in the wake of the
crisis we had in the Assembly when it had to be suspended, indicates they have
not ruled out terrorism."

In his annual report on the Prevention of Terrorism Act, Crown Court recorder
John Rowe said that after regular visits to Ulster he was convinced there was
still a need for its tough powers. He did not specify which terror groups could
be planning attacks.

The report will be a blow to the strained peace process amid fears that the
breakaway Continuity IRA will carry out new outrages in protest at the Good
Friday Agreement.

In his report, Mr Rowe, who also accompanied security patrols, warned:
"Paramilitary groups are still in existence, and they are known to have
structure and organisation and they apply expertise to their planning and
management.

"Throughout 1999 there has been continuing incidence of deaths, injury, and
damage to property, carried out by paramilitary groups.

"Firearms, ammunition and bombing and explosive devices have been discovered,
and this, among other things, is clear evidence that paramilitary groups have
been making preparations to make violent attacks on the community."

Mr Rowe said paramilitary organisations still exercised "significant influence"
over certain sections of communities in the province.

Some 369 people were detained in Northern Ireland and 12 people detained in
England and Wales in connection with terrorism in Northern Ireland last year of
whom 126 were later charged with offences.

The report also noted that the UK was increasingly likely to be used as a base
by foreign terrorists planning attacks elsewhere.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                 March 9, 2000

Hammer terror for mum in car attack

BYLINE: By Citizen Reporter

SECTION: Agency: AGENCY, Pg.5

LENGTH: 439 words


A TERRIFIED woman was waylaid by her Gloucester ex-boyfriend wielding a sledge
hammer as she left the home of a relative, the city's crown court heard.

Warren Trigg, 30, of Melbourne Street East, smashed her car windscreen with the
hammer as she sat in the car with her new boyfriend and her two children, one of
whom was Trigg's son, the court was told.

"As she got out of the car, he swung another blow, damaging the bonnet," said
Kirsty Real, prosecuting. "Then, as she approached him, he pushed her to the
floor and left the scene."

Trigg was before the court because he had failed to carry out a 200-hour
community service order imposed by Worcester Crown Court for the offence of
affray in February, 1998.

Miss Real said that at the time of the attack Trigg and Miss Peters had been
separated for about six weeks. She was visiting relatives in Malvern and as she
was leaving he approached.

Trigg had done only 33 hours of the community service work order imposed by
Worcester Crown Court in June, 1999.

Sue Evans, defending, said she had to accept that Trigg had shown a "flagrant
disregard" for the order of the court. He had been given one chance to complete
the order when he was fined for failing to do the work but he had not done
anything since, she admitted.

The reason he had disobeyed the order was because his job as a railway track
maintenance worker gave him only one day off a week when he liked to see his
five-year-old son. He had recently been promoted and was now in charge of a gang
and on 24-hour call.

"He does wish to complete the order and do the remaining hours of work, but he
wants to do it when he has finished work during the week," said Miss Evans.

Miss Evans said if the court jailed Trigg he would lose his good job, his home,
and his son would lose the GBP 40-a-week maintenance his father paid.

Judge Gabriel Hutton discharged the community service order and substituted a
GBP 300 fine.

"Your offence was a disgraceful piece of behaviour and you should have known
better," he told Trigg.

It would have been not only frightening to the occupants of that car but
obviously potentially very dangerous."

"He asked the community service organisers if he could do his work after
finishing work shifts but that was refused on health and safety grounds.

"On his day off he sees his five year old son who lives in Malvern and it takes
him an hour and a half each way to go there to collect him and take him back.

"He has made a choice which the court may disapprove of and that is to see his
son, but bearing in mind his situation one can understand why he has made that
choice.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2000 The Gloucester Citizen

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       March 9, 2000, Thursday Edition 1

Three jailed for terror attack on mum

SECTION: REGIONAL NEWS, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 205 words


   THREE men were jailed yesterday for a revenge attack which terrorised a
pregnant young mother in her own home.

Lindsey Collins was bathing her son, three, when the front door of her home in
Choppington, Northumberland, crashed open and James and Mark Chivers burst in.

She was grabbed by the hair, they tried to punch her and she fell to the floor,
Newcastle Crown Court was told.

Two others joined the attack and she was kicked and threatened. Ms Collins, who
had been in the house with a friend who was also heavily pregnant, finally fled
in a state of shock with her son.

James Chivers, 53, of Pioneer Terrace, Bedlington, was jailed for 15 months,
Mark Chivers, 24, of the same address for nine months and Paul Kilpatrick, 38,
of Eastgreen, Choppington, for six months. They all admitted violent disorder.

James Chivers, the prime mover, admitted criminal damage.

Kilpatrick's wife Tracy Kilpatrick, 30 of Eastgreen, Choppington, was ordered to
carry out 240 hours' community service after admitting affray.

The court heard the attack last July was in retaliation for an incident the
previous night in which Ms Collins had played no part. Judge Gerard Harkins said
there was no possible excuse.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                 March 9, 2000

Terror attack victim jumped

SECTION: Courts: CROWN, Pg.3

LENGTH: 227 words


A TERRIFIED Pontarddulais woman jumped from her bed-room window to escape a
knife attack by her former boyfriend.

Marie Patricia Brown was stabbed by Terrence Phillips who was berserk through
drugs, Swansea Crown Court was told.

He had also drunk coffee spiked with ecstasy, said prosecuting barrister Patrick
Griffiths.

Phillips, aged 34, of Wood-ville Street, Pontarddulais, admitted wounding
41-year-old Miss Brown and was jailed for four years.

Mr Griffiths said the couple's relationship had ended six weeks before the
attack on August 22.

But she agreed he could visit her home in St Teilo Street and they spent the
night together. In the morning Phillips suddenly became aggressive. He shouted
and screamed and snapped a curtain pole in half.

Mr Griffiths said Phillips said he would kill Miss Brown and fetched a kitchen
knife. He began spitting on her bed and stabbing it with the knife.

Phillips then began making stabbing movements with the knife towards Miss
Brown's face and throat. In a desperate attempt to protect herself she put up
her arms - and the blade caused serious injuries to both hands.

Terrified, she dashed to her bedroom window and jumped out on to a sloping roof
before climbing over a garden fence.

Elwen Evans, defending, said Phillips had been in an altered state of
consciousness as a result of drug taking.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2000 South Wales Evening Post

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            March 11, 2000, Saturday

HAGUE ESCAPES KILLER BOMB IN SRI LANKAN TERROR ATTACK;
 BLAST: BUT TORY LEADER REMAINS DEFIANT

BYLINE: David Thompson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 154 words


WILLIAM Hague was caught up in a bomb outrage which killed 19 people in Sri
Lanka yesterday.

The Tory leader was in the capital Colombo for a conference of centre-right
political parties when a suicide bomber struck.

The bid to blow up goverment ministers and officials as they left the parliament
also injured 46 - but none of the intended targets was hit.

Hague was less than a mile away when terrorists, believed to belong to the Tamil
Tiger separatists, struck.

But last night, aides said he was determined to carry on with his visit. One
said: "I don't think we were in any real danger but obviously this was a
terrible tragedy.

"We will go ahead with the programme and take the opportunity to denounce
terrorism."

Police said the suicide bomber detonated his explosives prematurely, missing the
target.

There were running gun battles between soldiers and armed men for up to an hour
after the blast.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2000 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Sunday Herald

                                 March 12, 2000

Threat of more Basque terrorist attacks as Spain goes to the polls

BYLINE: By Daniel Woolls In Madrid

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 796 words


SPAIN'S general elections today pit an incumbent prime minister boasting a
vibrant economy against a Socialist Party rival promising a more just
distribution of wealth.

With the clamour of campaigning behind them, voters and candidates alike took a
mandatory day of rest yesterday ahead of an election expected to produce a
narrow win for centre-right Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar.

Tens of thousands of police and Civil Guards will be on duty to provide security
amid fears of violence by the Basque separatist group ETA, which has staged
three car bombings this year after ending an 18-month ceasefire.

Aznar, a 47-year-old former tax inspector, wants another four-year term on the
strength of an economy that grew by 3.7% last year and has reduced the jobless
rate from a staggering 23% to 15% during his term. Aznar also points to Spain's
entry into the club of Europe's elite as a founding member of the common
currency, the euro.

Public opinion polls give Aznar and his Popular Party a lead of four to five
points over the opposition Socialists, which would leave Aznar short of an
outright majority in the 350-seat Congress of Deputies.

His main rival is Socialist Party candidate Joaquin Almunia, 51, a former
cabinet minister who charges that Spain's economic bonanza has benefited mainly
the wealthy, in particular businesspeople close to Aznar. Among other things,
Almunia wants to impose a one-time windfall tax on former state-owned companies
and earmark the money for raising pensions.

As the campaign closed on Friday night, Aznar urged Spaniards to back him and
his pledges of more economic growth, full employment, income tax cuts and a
budget surplus within a few years.

"We have come part of the way," Aznar told a crowd of cheering supporters. The
Socialists, he said, would bring back high unemployment and the corruption
scandals which were blamed for their defeat in the last election in 1996. He
closed the campaign with an appeal to left-leaning Spaniards - many of whom
abstained in 1996 out of frustration with the Socialists' record - not to skip
this election. "No leftist vote should be left at home on March 12," Almunia
said.

Seeking to galvanise leftist forces, his party has struck an alliance with the
communist-dominated United Left, Spain's third-largest party, which for years
had accused the Socialists of being centrist sell-outs. Under the accord, if
Almunia wins the election, United Left will endorse him as Prime Minister.

In the last election, these two parties together won more votes than Aznar. But
Aznar finished first, albeit by a slim margin, and was asked by King Juan Carlos
to form a government. He did so by wooing support from regional centre -right
nationalist parties in the Basque country and Catalonia. If he wins this
election, Aznar is again expected to have to seek some kind of deal with the
Catalans.

But Aznar's party has fallen out with another former ally in parliament, the
moderate Basque Nationalist Party, because of its refusal to cut ties with a
group linked to ETA. The campaign has been overshadowed by three car bombings
blamed on ETA which killed three people. Both Aznar and Almunia reject ETA's
separatist goals out of hand, so the Basque issue is not expected to affect the
result of Sunday's election.

The party seen as ETA's political wing, Euskal Herritarrok, is calling on its
supporters to boycott the election. Yesterday ETA supporters staged a protest at
the Mexican consulate in Bilbao, calling for better treatment of Basque
prisoners. The protesters have a long-standing demand that around 700 ETA
prisoners scattered about the country should be transferred to prisons nearer
home. The government says the prisoners should be kept separate from one another
and far from home to prevent them from plotting behind bars.

Two demonstrators got inside the building and hung banners over a sixth-floor
balcony, while about 20 protesters chanted slogans outside. Mexico may have been
targeted as it has recently stepped up cooperation with Spain in extraditing ETA
suspects.

Extra police officers are being posted at polling booths and on patrol duties,
and France has tightened controls along its border with Spain. Basque
separatists from both countries also demonstrated yesterday in the French city
of Bayonne - close to the Spanish frontier - in support of jailed members of
ETA.

Blamed for nearly 800 deaths in its campaign for an independent Basque nation,
ETA called a ceasefire in September 1998. But the peace process has since fallen
apart after a single round of talks between the government and the guerrilla
group, which resumed attacks on January 21 this year with a car bombing that
killed an army colonel in Madrid.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 14, 2000, Tuesday

VOICE OF THE MIRROR: TERROR GUN ATTACKS MUST END

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 188 words


NORTHERN Ireland seems to be returning to gun law once more.

In the past four days, four young men have been shot in the legs by terrorists.

During the Troubles, so-called "kneecappings" and "punishment shootings" were
nightly occurrences.

Paramilitaries accused, tried and convicted hundreds of people before shooting
them.

There was no defence and no appeal.

Victims were taken from their homes, from pubs, while walking along the street
and taken to back entries where they were held down and shot.

Victims are not only wounded in the knees - they are injured in the elbows,
ankles and wrists to cause even more pain and long-term damage.

Yesterday, David Ervine of the Progressive Unionist Party said the political
vacuum had contributed to the upsurge in attacks.

In truth, however, terrorists have never stopped their "punishment" attacks.

For a while, they simply swapped baseball bats for guns.

The methods of the terrorists have been rejected by everyone in Northern
Ireland. Both communities are looking to a new future free from violence. These
heinous attacks must stop now.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           March 15, 2000, Wednesday

PARLIAMENT: FOREIGN OFFICE: MP ATTACKS NATIONS OVER ARMS TO UNITA TERRORISTS

BYLINE: Fran Abrams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 296 words


GOVERNMENTS ACROSS Europe, Africa and the Middle East were accused of aiding
Angolan Unita terrorists last night by the Labour MP Barbara Follett.

Using parliamentary privilege, Ms Follett also named the half-brother of the
Ugandan President, Yoweri Museveni, General Salim Saleh, as being implicated in
the supply of arms to Jonas Savimbi's rebel forces.

She called for the sacking of General Saleh and was backed by the Foreign Office
minister Peter Hain, who flew to New York for the launch of a UN report on
sanctions-busting in Angola. Mr Hain told MPs yesterday he was "very concerned"
about the evidence in the motion. General Saleh had assured him personally that
he would investigate reports of sanctions-busting, he said.

Ms Follett tabled a Commons motion condemning the actions of states including
Switzerland, Israel and South Africa in prolonging the Angolan civil war. The
governments of Ukraine and Belarus had exported arms and munitions to Unita
while Zambia had allowed convoys of lorries and planes to cross the border into
Unita -controlled areas "with the occasional paid assistance of Zambian
ministers and public officials", she said. Ivory Coast, Togo and Burkina Faso
had provided supplies to Unita while Rwanda allowed supply flights to take off
almost daily.

South Africa had not cracked down sufficiently on dozens of arms dealers
supplying Unita. The motion also called for Israel to act against citizens
involved both in supply and in trading Unita diamonds in Tel Aviv, and for Swiss
and other banking authorities to track down Mr Savimbi's assets.

Ms Follett added that both the London-based De Beers diamond dealers and the
British and Belgian governments had tried to block the illegal sale of Unita's
diamonds.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                 March 15, 2000

Attacks family flee fire terror
 Mum speaks out on fears for children

BYLINE: By Roger Butler

SECTION: Politics: SWANSEA COUNCIL, Pg.3

LENGTH: 260 words


A TERRIFIED Gorseinon family have fled their council house home after two arson
attacks at the weekend.

Lorraine Clifford fears for her children's safety but says her pleas to be
rehoused by Swansea Council have fallen on deaf ears.

She is worried that another attack could mean the house going up in flames.

She said the first attack happened at about 9pm on Saturday when she was alerted
by a neighbour that the side wall of her home in Gower View Road had been set on
fire.

She put it out.

Then on Sunday afternoon she returned home to find someone had tried to set the
front door alight but the fire had failed to take hold.

Now Lorraine has moved with her three children, seven -year-old Melissa,
two-year-old Sharmaine and three-month-old Peter to her mother's house in
Brynamlwg Road, Gorseinon. Her boyfriend Darren Williams is staying put to look
after the house.

She said: "It is very frightening, I have not slept all weekend.

"The safety of my children is at risk. I can only guess that it is local kids
but I cannot prove it as I have not seen anyone do it.

"Swansea Council will not rehouse me. I think that because there was so little
damage they are not treating it as serious.

"I asked how long it would be before someone put something through my
letterbox," she added.

Inspector Dave Savage, of Swansea police, said: "Two incidents were reported
over the weekend and they are still being investigated by police in Gorseinon.
Incidents like these are dangerous."

Swansea Council said it would investigate the complaints.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: LIVING IN FEAR: Pictured outside her home in Gower View Road,
Gorseinon, is Lorraine Clifford and her son Peter and daughter Sharmaine. Mark
Entwistle 2000-03-14/6300/ME/P1

                    Copyright 2000 South Wales Evening Post

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 March 16, 2000

Viewpoint: Violence filling political vacuum;
 GUN ATTACKS: Terrorists appear to be emerging from the shadows again

LENGTH: 510 words


While the politicians discuss the prospects of a return to the Assembly and the
executive in the comfortable surroundings of Washington, the reality is that, in
Northern Ireland, the paramilitaries are emerging from the shadows. They had
never gone away, of course, but they are now taking advantage of the political
vacuum to enforce their rule by the gun. Of nine "punishment" attacks over the
last few days seven involved shootings - four by republicans and three by
loyalists.

This is a significant change in tactics, at least by the IRA, which cannot be
ignored. All the signs are that although the formal ceasefires are holding, the
paramilitaries believe they can gradually raise their profile without
interrupting the flow of early releases from prison. Having thwarted the
attempts of the political parties to bring about some form of decommissioning,
and save the Assembly, the hardliners are again exerting their illegal authority
in their communities.

By their actions, they are proving the central importance of the decommissioning
issue, which was included in the Good Friday Agreement to emphasise that private
armies are unacceptable in the new dispensation. Politics and paramilitarism can
never be mixed, without permanent instability, and yet there are many
politicians who seem to want the question of illegal arms to be overlooked, in
the fond hope that the simple act of political adversaries working together can
force the gunmen into submission.

Such ideas can surely now be seen as wishful thinking. While armed organisations
remain in being, there is a permanent threat to the political process and the
security forces must remain fully engaged. The overnight seizure of explosives
is a credit to the effectiveness of their intelligence -gathering, at a
particularly dangerous time, and makes nonsense of the Irish government's pleas
for demilitarisation, apparently as a sop to the IRA.

At least there is a greater sense of reality on the British side, with Peter
Mandelson admitting in the Commons that the prospects for achieving complete
decommissioning by May 22 - two years after the successful referendums - were
"poor". His deputy, George Howarth, went further: "There is no evidence that
decommissioning will be completed or started by May 22."

If this is the thinking, at British government level, Mr Blair's meeting with
Bertie Ahern on Monday may be more important, in devising new ways of dealing
with a volatile situation, than all the cosy conversations in Washington. Since
Brian Cowen took over as Irish Foreign Minister, stressing the need for
"demilitarisation", the two governments have been moving apart.

Uncomfortable facts must be faced, if Sinn Fein either will not or cannot
persuade the IRA to begin putting some arms "beyond use", in pursuance of the
Agreement and in acknowledgment of Sinn Fein's places in government. With David
Trimble facing a testing re-election as UUP leader on Saturday week, the
prospect of an early resolution of the impasse seems non-existent.


LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 March 17, 2000

Minister 'victim of terror attack';
 'MP AND COUNCILLORS TARGETED IN HATE CAMPAIGN'

BYLINE: Will Kinnaird

SECTION: News, Pg.17

LENGTH: 426 words



GOVERNMENT Minister Dawn Primarolo woke to hear her front windows being smashed
in by a man who held a seven-year grudge against Bristol city council, a court
heard yesterday.

Malcolm Guy is accused of waging a terror campaign against Bristol South MP Ms
Primarolo and a string of Bristol councillors.

The 40-year-old bachelor from Borleyton Walk, Withywood, is said to have smashed
the car and house windows of a number of people he thought were connected with a
dispute over the purchase of a council flat.

Bristol magistrates heard how he dressed himself in a balaclava and dark clothes
and attacked his victim's properties in the early hours.

Paymaster General Ms Primarolo told the court she felt the whole house shake as
someone pounded the front door of her South Bristol home in February 1999.

"Me and my husband were both woken at about 1.30am by the sound of what we
believed was someone ramming the front door as though they were trying to break
in," she said.

She said her husband went to see what had happened while she rang the police.

"When I came down to the front room all the glass had come through the canvas
blinds," said Ms Primarolo.

"The six windows were not just broken, they were totally destroyed and we had to
have the front of the house boarded up.

"Police arrived within minutes of receiving our 999 call and pointed out that
the windscreen of my car had also been damaged."

She said she was not aware of anyone who held a grudge against her or her
husband, who is a trade union officer.

Former Tory city council leader Sir Robert Wall also told the court of damage
done to his Stoke Bishop home during a number of attacks in 1999.

"I had to go away from Bristol for a few days in May and when I came back I
found four window panels had been smashed," he said.

"The insurance paid for the windows, so I am not sure exactly how much they cost
to replace, but the chap who fitted them said it was about 700.

"I also had a steel pin put into four tyres on my car and a long and tedious
campaign of receiving telephone calls at odd hours."

Guy is also accused of terrorising other councillors, including Jenny Smith,
former Tory leader Colin Williams and Richard Eddy, who suffered more than 1,200
of damage to his Headley Park home.

The court heard Guy had a dispute with the council over service charges and also
believed he was being harassed by the police. He failed to turn up for afternoon
proceedings at Bristol magistrates' court and a warrant was issued for his
arrest.


LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Bristol United Press

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 18, 2000, Saturday

MY TERROR IN HAMMER ATTACK BY MP DAWN

BYLINE: Richard Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 237 words


GOVERNMENT minister Dawn Primarolo yesterday told a court of a frightening
hammer attack on her home by a man wearing a balaclava.

The 45-year-old Paymaster General and her husband Ian were woken by Malcolm Guy,
40, battering their front door with the hammer at 1.30am, magistrates heard.

Mrs Primarolo, a mother, said: "We could hear and feel the vibrations going
through the house and then we heard the glass break downstairs.

"When I came down to the front room all the glass had come through the canvas
blinds.

"The six windows were not just broken - they were totally destroyed and we had
to have the front of the house boarded up."

The Bristol South MP said she knew of no one with a grudge against her or her
husband, a Unison trade union officer.

But she was said to have become the victim of a terror campaign waged by
bachelor Guy against his local council.

Guy was claimed to have targeted the homes and cars of several Bristol City
councillors during a seven-year dispute over service charges for work done on
the windows of his council flat in Withywood.

Two hammers were found at the flat and glass fragments in a balaclava linked him
to attacks on two cars owned by councillors, it was alleged.

Guy denied five charges of criminal damage.

But his Bristol hearing had to be suspended after he vanished during the lunch
break. Police issued a warrant for his arrest.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WOKEN: Dawn

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            March 23, 2000, Thursday

DOCTOR IN HIDING AFTER HUSBAND KNIFE TERROR;
 ATTACK OVER AFFAIR CLAIMS

BYLINE: Isabel Oakeshott Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 438 words


A SENIOR doctor was lying low last night after being attacked on his doorstep by
an angry husband armed with a knife.

Hospital consultant Ian King was confronted late at night by welder Alan Ross.

Mr Ross's wife, Liz, is a nurse in Dr King's department, and police believe he
feared a romantic link between them.

There was no sign of Dr King yesterday at his pounds 200,000 home in Dunblane,
Perthshire.

Police were guarding the house around the clock in case Mr Ross returned.

The attack happened at 10.30pm on Tuesday. Dr King, a consultant bacteriologist
at Falkirk Royal Infirmary, is not thought to have been badly hurt.

He and his family are said to be extremely shaken. He did not turn up for work
yesterday.

It is believed Mr Ross, a father of two, had a row with his wife before leaving
their home in Dennyloanhead, Stirlingshire, to confront the doctor.

Neighbours on the smart estate told how they ran to see what was happening after
hearing "shouting and screeching" from inside the family's semi -detached.

One said: "We knew there was something going on when we heard the noise.
Everyone in the cul-de-sac rushed to their windows to see what was going on.

"The police arrived not long after. I'm very surprised - they're a very nice
couple."

Another local resident said a vehicle drove away not long after the shouts were
heard, adding: "I heard shouting and then the screech of the tyres. It was so
loud, it woke my wee girl up.

"The driver was not stopping for anyone."

Police were waiting at the Ross family home, and at Dr King's house in upmarket
Menteith View, in case Mr Ross returned.

The doctor's wife, Miriam, was too afraid to answer the door to callers.

A detective at the house said: "There has been a serious incident and Mrs King
is extremely upset.

"Under the circumstances, she does not want to come to the door if it is a
stranger."

It was a similar story at the Ross home, where a tired-looking Mrs Ross said she
was too upset to comment.

A policeman on duty at the house said: "She is very upset and feeling ill.

"She does not want to speak about the events last night. It has been a very
distressing time for her."

The Kings have lived in Dunblane for eight years. Dr King, a highly respected
consultant, is known as a keen gardener who keeps his property immaculate.

His wife sped away from the house in an R-registered BMW at around 5pm. She
refused to comment on what had happened to her husband.

A spokesman for Central Scotland Police said: "We can confirm that an assault
took place, and that we are pursuing a very definite line of inquiry."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2000 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 23, 2000, Thursday

HE PULLED OUT A SWORD WITH A 3FT BLADE.. HIS EYES WERE WIDE AS HE LUNGED AT ME;
 MP TELLS COURT OF SAMURAI ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Richard Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 890 words


A CRAZED swordsman lunged at MP Nigel Jones with a 3ft samurai blade, a court
was told yesterday.

The Liberal Democrat described the moment Rob Ashman, 49, allegedly went
berserk, wounding the politician and killing his close friend and aide, Andrew
Pennington.

Father-of-two Ashman walked into the Cheltenham MP's constituency office with a
sword hidden under his coat, it was claimed.

In a statement, Mr Jones, 51, said: "He reached to the top of his coat and
pulled out the sword with a blade about 3ft long.

"He said, 'I'll tell you what I'm going to do, I'm going to do this.' He was
wide-eyed. He lunged at me and pointed the sword low towards my stomach.

"I managed to deflect the blow with my hand. Before he lunged at me, I might
have said, 'Oh no Rob'.

"I deflected it with my left arm, sliding along it and past me. I think Andrew
went to shout to the receptionist to call police.

"I grabbed hold of the blade, which was 12-15in from me. It was sharp and Rob
was trying to get it out of my grip.

"I was equally keen to hang on to it. I held it with both hands and we fell on
to the sofa with his body on top of me.

"Rob landed on top of me. I can recall him growling and saying, 'Yes, Yes' in a
loud and disturbing manner.

"His eyes were bulging. From the moment the sword was out, I did not see Andrew
again.

"I believe I was the intended victim of the attack. I'm also convinced that when
we were struggling on the sofa with the sword underneath me, he thought he had
stuck it in me and was pulling it around to inflict more damage.

"I had no chance to be frightened. I would have been if I'd had the time."

The wounds to Mr Jones's hands needed more than 50 stitches.

Mr Pennington, Lib-Dem leader on Gloucestershire County Council, died after
being stabbed 11 times.

Details of the attack were revealed during a committal hearing before Cheltenham
magistrates.

Reporting restrictions were lifted at the defence's request.

Ashman is charged with murdering Mr Pennington and attempting to murder Mr Jones
on January 28. Smartly-dressed, he grinned occasionally and took notes as
prosecutor Dennis Scully detailed the allegations against him.

The committal hearing began as Mr Jones made his first speech at Westminster
since the attack.

He was given a warm welcome by MPs on all sides. He thanked them for their "kind
words".

Afterwards, Mr Jones said his speech at Westminster Hall had gone well.

"It was all quite gentle rather than the hurly burly of the main chamber," he
added.

"They were all good friends in there, even though they were from different
political parties."

Ashman had gone to the MP's weekly surgery to try and get help over the
repossession of his home and the Inland Revenue's bankruptcy proceedings against
him.

Mr Scully said: "Ashman, Jones and Pennington shook hands and the two Liberal
Democrats sat on a sofa while Ashman remained standing.

"He began to ramble, referring to a conspiracy theory between the council and
Lloyds TSB, of which he was the victim."

The two politicians appealed for calm, but Ashman produced the sword, claimed Mr
Scully.

After he lunged at Mr Jones, Mr Pennington ran to the door, telling the
receptionist to dial 999.

"Jones was pinned across the sofa by the weight of Ashman's body," Mr Scully
told the court.

"When the pressure receded Jones seized the opportunity to escape and ran
through the open surgery door."

Receptionist Roma Wollen went out to the street to get help because the phone
was faulty.

"She went back into the offices and saw Pennington and Ashman struggling in the
interview room," said Mr Scully.

"She returned to the street and asked a passer-by to help her."

She later told police she saw Ashman standing in the reception area with a sword
in his right hand.

He calmly walked away, still clutching the sword. Passer-by Andrew Hodges
alerted police on his mobile phone and followed Ashman. After being arrested by
a Pc and a special constable, he handed over the sword.

Mr Scully added: "Pennington's body was found by the fireplace. He suffered
multiple stab wounds to his chest and abdomen.

"Six wounds went through his body and there were five others. He had defence
injuries to his hands and forehead."

Ashman allegedly took the samurai sword from the home of his father, who had
acquired it in 1946 in Saigon.

Before the attack, he placed three bets on horse races and visited his parents'
home where he read an anatomy book.

In his statement, Mr Jones said Ashman had visited his surgery between 50 and
100 times.

He might not see him for a year, but he then would attend several times in a
month.

The MP said: "During all my meetings with him, I would say I found him smart,
articulate, rational and confident. I never experienced seeing him losing his
temper."

In a statement, Ashman's father Geoffrey described his son's visit to him on the
day of the attack.

"He looked at a book called Gray's Anatomy in relation to a medical complaint I
had told him about," he said.

"He did not seem upset about anything," he said.

When he heard later of the stabbing, he checked the umbrella stand where he kept
the samurai sword and found it was gone.

Magistrates adjourned the case until today.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ACCUSED: Dad-of-two Rob Ashman; SLASHED: Nigel Jones; CRIME SCENE:;
Police at the MP's offices on night of the attack

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                 March 23, 2000

woman, 77, raid terror attack
 Pensioner victimised at her home for second time in a year

BYLINE: By Nick Parry

SECTION: Crime: BURGLARY, Pg.1

LENGTH: 255 words


THIEVES have raided the home of a 77-year-old Trimsaran woman for the second
time in under a year.

She was confronted by two men who broke into her Heol Llanelli home just after
9pm last night.

The pensioner, who lives alone, experienced a similar attack in April last year.
Police say she has been left shocked by events and they say they are treating
the incident very seriously.

A GBP 1,000 reward is on offer for anyone who helps catch the men and an
incident room has been set up at Llanelli Police Station.

Detective Inspector Aled Davies said: "It is a particularly callous attack on an
elderly woman. The woman is obviously shocked at being confronted by two persons
in the privacy of her home."

The two men responsible are described as having Irish accents.

Detectives from Llanelli's CID division are expected to release full
descriptions during the course of today.

Manhandled

Mr Davies added: "We are offering a reward of GBP 1000 for information leading
to the arrest and charge of persons responsible for this offence."

In the incident last year two raiders stole a substantial amount of cash of
breaking into the property after dark.

The pensioner was threat-ened, manhandled and left in shock.

Inspector Davies confirmed: "The victim was subject to a similar attack last
year.

"I would urge anybody who was in the Heol Llanelli area of Trimsaran at the time
to contact police."

(Anyone with

information is urged to contact Llanelli Police on 01554 772222 or Crimestoppers
on

0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2000 South Wales Evening Post

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             March 24, 2000, Friday

TERROR GANG IN CAR ATTACK;
 YOUTH LEAPS FOR HIS LIFE

BYLINE: Kathryn Summers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 185 words


A TEENAGER was forced to leap for his life when a car was driven at him in an
unprovoked attack early today.

The 18-year-old was walking home after a night out with friends when an old,
dented, silver Montego pulled up in Coventry Road, Warwick.

Police spokeswoman Cathy Ward said: "This appears to be a vicious, unprovoked
attack. A gang of men shouted insults before getting out of the car and punching
the 18-year-old to the ground.

"The victim had just got off the floor when one of the men drove the car towards
him and he had to jump out of the way.

"The men then got back into the car and drove off at speed towards the Woodloes
island.

The attack happened shortly after midnight and the shocked teenager was taken to
Warwick Hospital. He was treated for cuts to his face and a bump to his head,
but was not detained.

The man who drove the car towards him is described as of medium build with
short, black hair and in his early 20s. Another suspect had a goatee beard.

Police are appealing for witnesses. Anybody with any information should ring
police on 01926 415000.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                 March 24, 2000

Garage cashier haunted by terror at knifepoint attack

BYLINE: Lisa Bingham

SECTION: News:999:Theft, Pg.3

LENGTH: 315 words


A 46-YEAR-OLD Cleethorpes mum was left traumatised by two youths who robbed her
at knifepoint in the Grimsby petrol station where she works.

Nancy Harding was working as a cashier at the Total garage, Ladysmith Road, at
7.40pm on Wednesday, when two boys walked in and waved a 12-inch knife in her
face.

Unable to hold back the tears, Mrs Harding today described her horror as she saw
the long blade being pulled from one of their coats.

'I saw one of them draw out the knife and I just froze. I thought they were
going to stick it in me,i said Mrs Harding, a divorced mum-of-four, who lives in
Harrington Street, Cleethorpes.

She had been working at the garage for just three weeks, having been transferred
from the Ashwood petrol station in North Sea Lane, Humberston, when it closed
down.

'I screamed and started shaking when I saw the knife, I was so scared they were
going to use it,i said Mrs Harding, who is now being comforted at home by her
children.

The two youths demanded cash from the till and then ran off in the direction of
the Honest Lawyer pub.

Mrs Harding said she was apprehensive about returning to work.

'I have to do the nightshift next week but will keep the door locked all the
time.

'I usually lock it about 9.30pm, you don't expect anything bad to happen in the
early evening.

'But I won't be taking any more chances,i she said.

Det Sgt Charles Hume said police are looking for two youths aged 18 to 19.

The knifeman is described as 5ft 6ins to 5ft 7ins tall and of slim build. He was
wearing a yellow, grey and black striped woolly hat, black trousers and a grey
fleece.

His accomplice was 5ft 6ins tall and dressed in a black woolly hat and a yellow
fleece. He was also slim and spoke with a local accent.

Anyone who has information on the robbery is asked to contact Det Sgt Steve
Hibbitt at Grimsby police station on (01472) 254400.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2000 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            March 28, 2000, Tuesday

FAMILY'S FIRE BOMB TERROR;
 CHILDREN ESCAPE ATTACK ON HOME

BYLINE: Tony Collins

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 234 words


A FAMILY of six, including four children, had a narrow escape after a petrol
bomb was thrown through the window of their Birmingham home.

The alarm was raised because Mrs Faida Khatoon was on the phone when the mid
-terrace house in Markby Road, Winson Green, was firebombed shortly before 11
last night.

She was alerted by the sound of glass breaking and as she hurried towards the
front living room, there was a huge flash as the petrol exploded.

Station officer Ian Forrester, of Handsworth fire station, said the impact was
so great that it blew out the front bay.

He said: 'The petrol ignited with explosive force but fortunately there couldn't
have been too much liquid inside the bottle otherwise the fire would have been
greater.

'There were six people in the house at the time but thankfully the four children
were all upstairs in bed.'

He added: 'Someone had thrown a brick through the leaded window to make a hole
before then throwing the petrol bomb inside.'

Damage

Mrs Khatoon and a male occupier started to tackle the blaze before firemen
arrived. Damage was confined to a couple of sofas and the carpet.

Station officer Forrester said they had supplied the family with a smoke alarm
because the house was not fitted with one.

A West Midlands Police spokesman said CID officers would be carrying out
investigations into the arson attack this morning.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                 March 28, 2000

Pizza man's terror at strangler attack

SECTION: News: PEOPLE, Pg.13

LENGTH: 239 words


SHOPKEEPER Azam Choudhry has told how taking a part-time pizza delivery job
almost cost him his life.

Mr Choudhry, who runs Rave in Southgate Street, feared he would be strangled by
a man who attacked him to get a pizza. Now he says he will never go back to his
delivery job.

Mr Choudhry, 45, from Gloucester, was attacked in King Street, Cheltenham, on
Thursday at about 9.45pm.

Recalling the attack, he said: "He told me to give him the pizza and then
threatened me by saying 'Do you want to die for just pizza'?

"Then he tried to strangle me when I didn't give him the pizza, and he knocked
me against the wall twice.

"I then left the pizza bag with him and tried to look for help. I went to the
off licence shop for help.

Dreadful

"I am so frightened. It is dreadful. I am still shaking and crying. I thought he
was going to take my life. My neck is still burning."

Mr Choudhry had been working for Domino's Pizza at Cheltenham for only a few
months. He took on the part -time job because business at his shop was slow. In
recent months, his shop has been targeted by vandals.

Police are appealing for witnesses to the attack on Mr Choudhry. The attacker is
described as a white man in his early 20s and about six feet tall. He was
wearing jeans and a sweatshirt.

Anyone with information should telephone Gloucestershire police on 01452 521 201
or Crimestoppers, in confidence, on 0800 555 111.

Azam Choudhry

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2000 The Gloucester Citizen

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 March 28, 2000

Night firebug attack terror for sleeping students

BYLINE: By Sentinel Reporter

SECTION: Accidents: Fire, Pg.5

LENGTH: 288 words


THREE terrified university students in Stafford fled for their lives through
choking smoke after a fire was started by a colleague in their halls of
residence, a court heard.

The three were woken from their sleep after highly inflammable cleaning fluid
was sprayed on a fire door, down a corridor and on the entrance to the room of
one of them.

Martyn Chapman, aged 18, who lived in student accommodation at the town site of
Staffordshire University in Weston Road, where he had just started studying
computers, had started the blaze.

He was sent to a young offenders' institution for four years after he admitted
arson being reckless whereby life was endangered when he appeared at Stafford
Crown Court.

Dennis Desmond, prosecuting, said prior to the blaze there had been a number of
false alarms after fire alarms in the halls of residence had been going off on a
regular basis.

The finger of suspicion had been pointed at the defendant and it was believed
smoke had been put near detectors in the building to set them off.

He said on the night of the incident Chapman had walked to a garage and bought
the cleaning fluid before returning to start the fire.

The three sleeping students were woken by the alarm and had to escape from their
rooms through choking smoke with flames up to three feet high.

Richard Martin, defending, said Chapman, whose home is in Llandudno, had started
the fire because he was unhappy that staff had apparently not taken any notice
of complaints about security in the building.

Judge David McEvoy, QC, said: It is good fortune that the three students woke up
and managed to get out.

I find your explanation for starting the fire incredible. This is a very serious
case."

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2000 The Sentinel

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 March 30, 2000

Attack terror of woman, 78

LENGTH: 63 words



   A FRAIL woman of 78 suffered appalling injuries when muggers shoved her to
the ground and snatched her handbag.

   Alice Gibson was pushed from behind as she walked home after collecting her
Pounds 140 pension in Chadderton, Greater Manchester.

   She suffered a broken arm, broken jaw and fractured cheekbone. Police said:
"Whoever did this has sunk to a new low."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2000 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 1, 2000

'Woman-hater' jailed;
Four years for the thug who terrorised career girls in random attacks

BYLINE: Sarah Harris

SECTION: Pg. 41

LENGTH: 514 words


A 'WOMAN-HATER' who carried out random violent attacks on young professionals
was jailed for four years yesterday.

The most serious incident took place only six hours after John Chance, 33, was
bailed for three earlier assaults, all carried out on the same day.

Chance had been convicted of nine similar attacks on lone women over the past
four years but had always escaped jail.

His latest victim, 23-year-old journalist Catherine Mayer, was left with a
smashed nose and three broken teeth. She needed GBP 10,000 worth of dental work
and still cannot eat solid foods.

Chance shouted obscene abuse at Rebecca Pratt before assaulting City trader
Anna-Marie Ganatra on September 8 last year, Blackfriars Crown Court heard.

Moments later he verbally abused trainee barrister Caroline Hirons.

James Dawes, prosecuting, said Miss Pratt was waiting to cross North End Road,
in Fulham, West London, when Chance approached her and told her she was heading
towards a 'black area'.

Chance followed her as she walked away, adding: 'What's wrong with white men? We
are just as good.' The police were called but by the time they arrived he had
disappeared. A few hours later Miss Ganatra was also walking along North End
Road when Chance approached her.

Mr Dawes said: 'He then ripped her glasses off her face and twisted them in his
hands.

He dropped them on the ground, stamped on them and laughed.

'He smiled and said "So sorry" and then walked off. Miss Ganatra was
understandably scared.' Moments later, he approached Miss Hirons and called her
'a whore'. When Chance was arrested later he claimed it was a case of mistaken
identity. But he was charged and appeared for a plea and directions hearing at
Blackfriars Crown Court on December 23. He denied assault and using threatening
words and behaviour and was freed on conditional bail.

He left the court at midday but six hours later attacked journalist Miss Mayer
in Earls Court. Mr Dawes said: 'As he walked past her he delivered a vicious
kick to her shins hard enough to lift her clear off the ground.

'She fell face forward so that her face connected with the pavement. The impact
broke her nose and her three front teeth. She heard a sickening crunch and there
was blood oozing all over the place.' Chance attempted to escape but was held by
a passerby until police arrived. He was jailed for four years for GBH on Miss
Mayer, six months for common assault and three months for criminal damage
against Miss Ganatra, and four months each for using threatening words and
behaviour against Miss Hiron and Miss Pratt, to run concurrently.

Judge John Samuels QC said the jail term would have been two and a half years
but Chance, of West Kensington Court, was such a serious danger to the public
that the sentence had to be increased.

Miss Mayer, from West Kensington, said afterwards: 'I'm very relieved. He should
have been locked up a long time ago.' Detective Constable Graham Willcock,
leading the case, said: 'He is a woman-hater. We're very happy to get him off
the streets.'


LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             April 3, 2000, Monday

FAMILY'S FIREBUG ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Richard Ewing

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 208 words


A FAMILY fled for their lives when arsonists tried to burn down their Leamington
home.

Two youngsters and a pregnant woman were among six people asleep in the house
when a petrol can was set alight outside the front door.

The blaze wrecked the door and flames threatened to spread through the rest of
the property in The Close at Sydenham at 1.45am on Saturday.

Fire crews managed to bring it under control.

The family, who have not been named but are of Asian origin, escaped unhurt.

Police carried out house-to-house inquiries over the weekend but say they have
have no leads. Neighbours saw and heard nothing.

Detectives today appealed for anyone with any information to contact them,
particularly a man who reported the blaze but did not give his name.

Det Con Graham Padget, said: "In different circumstances this fire could have
had fatal consequences and we would now be dealing with a murder inquiry.

"We have spoken to the family and have not been able to establish anything that
might lead to someone having a grudge against a family member.

"I'm not prepared to say at this stage whether the attack was racially
motivated."

Anyone with any information is asked to call detectives on 01926 451111.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 3, 2000, Monday

MAN SHOT IN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Joe Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 119 words


RUC were yesterday investigating the fourth paramilitary-style shooting in three
days.

After the latest attack, a 22-year-old man was in hospital after being shot in
both ankles. The RUC said he was found near Elmfield Street, in the Oldpark area
of Belfast at 9.50pm on Saturday.

On Friday night, a 24-year-old man was shot in his right leg in the Rathcool
area of Newtownabbey.

And just over an hour later, a 34-year-old man was shot fives times in a similar
attack in Donegal Way, Carrickfergus.

On Thursday, a 20-year-old man was shot in both ankles after being forced from
his home in West Belfast by two masked men.

Anyone with information is asked to contact RUC on 0800-555-111.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 April 4, 2000

Terror as gang attack girl has epileptic fit

BYLINE: By Stafford, Chief Reporter Roger Houldcroft

SECTION: Crime: Attacks, Pg.2

LENGTH: 206 words


A YOUNG woman suffered an epileptic fit after she and her friends were attacked
as they got off a bus.

She was with a group of friends who had been travelling on a bus on the
Highfields estate at Stafford at about 8.30pm last night.

Police say a group of six men on the same bus, who had been abusive and
swearing, got off in West Way together with the young woman and her friends.

She and her four friends, three men and another young women, were then set on by
the gang.

She suffered an epileptic fit and an ambulance which was called to the scene
took her to hospital at Stafford for a check-up.

One of her friends was punched in the stomach and another was thrown over a
garden hedge. None were seriously injured.

The attackers then fled from the scene and police today issued an appeal for
witnesses to contact them

One of the six attackers was wearing a green cap and a yellow jacket.

A police spokesman said: The six men, aged between 18 and 25, had been at the
rear of the bus swearing and being abusive.

They got off in West Way at the same time as the five others who were then
attacked.

We would appeal to anyone who saw what happened or who has any information about
this incident to contact us."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2000 The Sentinel

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 4, 2000

Couple in pub attack terror

SECTION: News, Pg.13

LENGTH: 112 words


AHUSBAND and wife are recovering after being attacked by two men in a Forest of
Dean pub at the weekend.

The couple were in the Golden Lion on High Street, Cinderford, at 11.30pm on
Saturday night when they were set on by two men and suffered facial injuries.

The men are both said to be white and in their mid to late thirties. One was six
feet tall and plump with mousy blond hair which was long at the back.

The other man had similar coloured hair with an overgrown appearance said a
police spokeswoman. He was about 5ft 6ins tall and of medium build. Police are
appealing for anyone with information about the attack to contact them on 01452
521201.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Bristol United Press

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                 April 10, 2000

Terror terrier on the attack

SECTION: Features: GENERAL, Pg.11

LENGTH: 84 words


BOBBY, a 12-year-old Jack Russell terrier, developed a habit of launching
ferocious attacks on black shoes worn by visitors to the house.

Fiona said: "We got Bobby fixated on a black rubber toy filled with his
favourite food. The owners retrained him to lie down on command and asked
visitors to ignore Bobby completely.

"Because the dog wasn't getting attention, he would fetch his toy and play with
that instead of attacking shoes. It took only a few days to see the difference
in him."

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2000 The Gloucester Citizen

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                 April 11, 2000

Gas terror
 Raiders in spray attack on Linda

BYLINE: By Matt Laddin

SECTION: Crimes & Dossiers: Shop raids & shoplifting, Pg.2

LENGTH: 269 words


A shopkeeper told today how she was temporarily blinded when youths sprayed
pepper gas in her face.

Terrified Linda Smith, 56, was left with facial burns after the attack at Ye
Olde Village Store in Stanton Road, Sandiacre.

Two youths entered the store at 2.45pm on Sunday, attacked Mrs Smith and stole
more than GBP 100 from the till.

Her husband Daniel, 53, gave chase but the raiders escaped in a white Peugeot.

Mrs Smith was taken to Derbyshire Royal Infirmary, Derby, where her eyes and
burns were treated.

The fact she was wearing glasses saved her eyes from more permanent damage.

She said: "I opened the till and the next thing I knew my eyes and face were on
fire. I couldn't breathe. I was screaming for my husband.

"Three years ago I had a major heart attack - I thought I was dying."

She added: "It's absolutely terrifying. If they do this at their age what will
they be doing when they are 20."

Mr Smith was in the back of the store when the attack happened. He was alerted
when his wife managed to press a security buzzer.

He explained: "When I ran out and saw her on the floor. I thought they'd punched
her.

"With young kids you think they might just nick some chocolate."

"It makes me wonder where they pick these sprays up."

Det Insp Sam Slack, from Ilkeston CID, said: "There was no need for the violence
used on this woman. The woman could have been seriously injured or even
blinded."

Police are studying CCTV footage of the incident. They appealed for anyone who
saw the Peugeot, or has information about the crime, to contact them on 01773
570 100 or 0800 555 333.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: VICTIM: Linda Smith at Ye Olde Village Shop 2K2669/2 PICTURE: NEIL
HOYLE

                     Copyright 2000 Nottingham Evening Post

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           April 12, 2000, Wednesday

REPUBLICAN TERROR ATTACKS INCREASE

BYLINE: Donna Carton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 240 words


THE Provos, the Official IRA and the INLA have all carried out savage
paramilitary attacks in the past week, The Mirror has learned.

All three republican groups have sanctioned the use of bloody terror as a means
of "punishment" and community control.

Since January, 42 shootings and beatings have been carried out by republican and
loyalist gangs.

And security sources say the situation is set to get worse.

On Monday night a 35-year-old man was injured in a gruesome "crucifixion"
shooting.

He was shot four times in the ankles and wrists in the backyard of a house at
Stanfield Place in the Markets area of Belfast.

A 23-year-old man was being treated yesterday after he was shot in the ankle at
his home in Elver Avenue, Toomebridge, Co Antrim.

A brutal shooting style known as "jointing" is also becoming more common. The
terrorist shoots from the knee down along the leg to the ankle, inflicting
severe injuries.

It is believed the INLA carried out the Markets shooting. The Official IRA is
being blamed for a gun attack in west Belfast on April 9.

News that Official IRA guns are back on the streets is alarming to unionists and
will increase their calls for Provo disarmament.

Last night a security source said: "Despite the so-called ceasefires, the
paramilitaries have decided these shootings and beatings are going to continue.

"There was an IRA halt but that is definitely over now."

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 14, 2000

TERROR BOMB ATTACK FAILS

LENGTH: 77 words


    AN abandoned car was used in a failed mortar attack on a police station
yesterday.

    The alarm was raised after officers inside the Rosslea RUC barracks, Co
Fermanagh, heard a muffled bang.

    The Volvo hatchback was found nearby with all its windows smashed and a
large cylindrical object in the back.

    The surrounding area was sealed-off and four families were evacuated from
their homes while Army bomb experts made certain the area was safe.


LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2000 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 15, 2000, Saturday

Serial sex attacker jailed for reign of terror

BYLINE: Adam Sherwin

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 355 words


A SEX attacker who brought terror to a town for more than a year and a half with
a series of assaults on women and children was jailed yesterday for 18 years.

David Ellis, 29, lived with his girlfriend in a three-bedroom semi-detached
house in Luton, bringing up four children.

He appeared to be a respectable family man, working as a supervisor at car
factory and helping to run a youth team at Luton rugby club. Yesterday, he was
found guilty of 13 sexual assaults over 19 months, with his youngest victim an
11 year-old girl.

Mr Justice Gage called Ellis "a dangerous, psychopathic individual" and said he
would have passed a life sentence if he had the power. He said: "These offences
represent some of the worst cases of indecent assault that it is possible to
imagine. Young women in this town lived in fear of being attacked by you." He
ordered that Ellis be registered as a sex offender for life.

Luton Crown Court was told that Ellis had carried out the vicious attacks as
revenge for affairs which he believed his girlfriend was having at the time. He
"hunted" his victims as he made his way to and from work at the Vauxhall factory
in Luton. Often he pressed a knife against his victims' throats and threatened
to cut off their heads if they did not perform oral sex.

Sometimes he pressed his fingers into their eyes to make them comply and on
occasions, to disguise his identity, he faked a Northern Irish accent. He would
break into his victims' homes and assault them in their bedrooms, while others
were attacked in the street.

The attacks spread fear among women and girls in Luton. Families of the 13
women, aged between 11 and 35, were present in court to hear the sentencing.

Ellis's partner, Lousie Tadier, 35, was on the second year of a criminology
course at Luton University when he was arrested. Ellis is the father of two of
her children. She said: "It never occurred to me he could be the sex beast. I
lived with him for five years. He's two men in the same body."

Ellis had pleaded guilty to ten charges of indecent assault and three of
attempted indecent assault.


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           April 19, 2000, Wednesday

ATTACK ON 'DIVISIVE' PLAQUE HONOURING TERROR VICTIMS;
 CLASH WITH COUNCILLOR OVER MEMORIAL

BYLINE: S By Gary Kelly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 286 words


THE UNVEILING of the plaque to the victims of terrorism sparked a row at Belfast
City Council yesterday.

The event was boycotted by councillors belonging to Sinn Fein, the largest party
on the council, and a victims' group, Relatives for Justice, called it
"selective" and "divisive".

The group, which represents families of those killed by the security forces, had
turned down an invitation to attend the ceremony.

Spokesman Mark Thompson accused the organisers of attempting to fuel division
and make cheap political capital out of the event.

He singled out Cllr Sammy Wilson, claiming that the DUP had sought to use the
victims' issue for its own purposes.

"The wording on the plaque - making specific reference to those affected only by
'terrorist violence' and term- inology such as 'innocent', indicates a purely
selective approach that excludes our experience," he said.

"The inference is that those killed by the RUC, the British Army or through
collusion are somewhat different - guilty."

Mr Wilson said that, when Sinn Fein and SDLP councillors in Londonderry excluded
mention of murdered soldier Trevor Best on a memorial window, the Relatives For
Justice group was "strangely silent".

"It was fairly predictable that Sinn Fein support groups, under the guise of
victims' organisations should try to mar this day by their protests and
whinging," he said.

"Although Sinn Fein claim to have left their bloody past behind them, it is
quite clear from their attitude to today's ceremony that they still revel in,
and refuse to denounce, their bloody history and the anguish and suffering which
they imposed on this community in pursuit of their fascist political demands."

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Century Newspapers Limited

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           April 19, 2000, Wednesday

THEY'RE ATTACKING AND FIRING ON ME TERROR IN ZIMBABWE;
 LAST WORDS OF HERO FARMER

BYLINE: Anton Antonowicz In Bulawayo, Zimbabwe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 476 words


A SECOND white farmer was murdered in Zimbabwe yesterday after a gun battle with
squatters trying to grab his land.

Martin Olds radioed to his neighbours: "They are attacking me - they are firing
on me."

In a second message he called for help, saying he was wounded.

But police stopped an ambulance getting through as they let the killers drive
off.

Martin was found beaten to death yards from his burnt, bullet-riddled home.

Hours later President Mugabe branded white farmers "enemies of Zimbabwe" as he
celebrated the 20th anniversary of independence on TV.

The attack on 44-year-old Martin's cattle ranch began at 5.15am. Sixty so
-called "veterans" of the independence war, armed with AK47 assault rifles and
machetes, drove up in pickup trucks, cars and an old taxi.

Neighbour Robin Greaves said: "They started firing and Martin retaliated. I know
he had a shotgun, a Magnum pistol and a rifle.

"He radioed again about an hour later saying he'd been shot in the right leg.

"He'd managed to put a splint on it and was urgently asking for an ambulance."

Friends tried to reach him but were beaten back by gunfire from the beer
drinking mob.

Police refused pleas for help. "They told us not to interfere," said friend Mac
Crawford.

"The police station is 10 minutes away. It took them four hours to get there and
that was only after I contacted the Ministry of Security in the capital."

Police finally mounted a roadblock but refused to let the ambulance through -
and even forced the crew to treat two of the gang for gunshot wounds.

Mr Crawford said: "The mob went right past us, laughing and singing liberation
songs. They were brandishing new AK47s.

"I've got no doubt where those came from - they must have been supplied from on
high."

Martin - handed a bravery award by President Mugabe two years ago for rescuing a
man attacked by a crocodile - had sent wife Cathy and children Martine, 17, and
Angus, 14, to their second home 30 miles away in Bulawayo at the weekend after
white farmer David Stevens was killed by squatters.

Cathy, disabled by polio, walked on her crutches to tell me: "It is too soon to
describe what I think of his murderers. He was a wonderful man, a rock. We're
devastated."

Martin's mum Gloria said: "They beat him to a pulp. They are just animals."

On TV Mugabe said white farmers "behaved as enemies of Zimbabwe and we are full
of anger . . . and that's why they have the war vets seizing land."

He called the farmers "our enemies, not just political enemies but definite
enemies in wanting to reverse our revolution and our independence".

Angry Foreign Office Minister Peter Hain condemned the killings as "absolutely,
completely intolerable and a sign of what I feared - that the situation could
spiral out of control".

Pictures: MIKE MOORE

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TORCHED: A car lies burned out yards from Martin's smouldering home
after gang left; DEVASTATED: Children Martine and Angus; WRECKED: Inside;
Martin's home after fire; GRIEVING: Widow Cathy said her murdered husband was "a
wonderful man, a rock"; VICTIM: Farmer Martin Olds

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 20, 2000

RAPE AGONY IN ZIMBABWE;
WHITE SISTERS ATTACKED BY BLACK GANG AS TERROR REIGNS

BYLINE: Ross Benson

SECTION: Pg. 16;17

LENGTH: 459 words


TWO white sisters were raped in Harare yesterday as Zimbabwe's state-sponsored
terror took the country another step towards anarchy.

Six black men armed with clubs and knives forced their way into a house near the
capital's international airport as the 25-year-old woman, her husband and
18-year-old sister were sitting down to dinner.

The husband was hit on the head with a brick.

When he regained consciousness he was made to watch as his wife, an airline
employee, and her sister, visiting from Britain, were raped.

When the raiders stormed the house, the younger woman hid in a cupboard but was
soon tracked down.

The attack happened less than 24 hours after Marxist dictator Robert Mugabe
declared white farmers enemies of the state and as the leader of the mobs
terrorising them, Chenijarai Hunzvi, laughed in the face of the law after a
court hearing.

The rapes are more than a brutal coincidence as the lawless find free rein in
Zimbabwe. During the attack, the gang demanded to know which political party the
victims supported. The women are nieces of a senior official of the Commercial
Farmers' Union, which has been pleading with Mugabe to end the savage campaign
against white farmers.

That, and the fact that the attack took place hours after Martin Olds was shot
and mutilated on his farm near Bulawayo, has convinced many that this latest
outrage marks a sinister upturn of violence against the white community.

Yesterday the British High Commission was besieged by crowds applying for
British passports to escape the mobs under the command of Hunzvi, who proudly
refers to himself as 'Mr Hitler'.

'People here are panicking,' said one frightened woman in the queue of almost
300 applying for British citizenship at the High Commission.

Among those queueing were Carol and Russel Franklin, neighbours of Mr Olds. Mrs
Franklin cried as she said: 'We lost a friend yesterday. We don't want to leave
but we have our family to consider and it is not safe here anymore.' Businessman
Robert De Wet, whose mother is English, is also preparing to flee the country.

'Right now there have been two deaths, two white farmers killed,' he said.

He had not heard the news of the two rapes when he said: 'I don't know whether
the violence is going to escalate and move into the suburbs.' He was horribly
right when he said he thought it would. 'The veterans are flared up,' he
explained.

Sixty thousand of Hunzvi's so-called veterans from the war against the Ian Smith
regime (that most are too young to recall) are on the loose, seizing land they
claim was stolen from their forebears by the British.

The courts have ruled that these seizures are illegal but the government has
refused to act to


LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: LEFT CHILDREN,CLUTCHING THEIR PARENTS GUNS ARE DRIVEN TO SAFETY FROM A
FARM UNDER THREAT. ABOVE A SMIRKING HITLER HUNZVI YESTERDAY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       April 20, 2000, Thursday Edition 1

Jail for gang in student terror attack

SECTION: REGIONAL NEWS, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 285 words


   FOUR men were jailed yesterday for terrorising three students returning home
from a night club on their first week at University.

Adam Taylor, Christopher Hames and Christopher Trevana, all 18, were forced into
the back of a van, driven away and robbed of watches, credit cards and cash.

Two of the terrified students managed to flee to safety but the third was
marched to a cash point where he was forced to withdraw £300.

Michael Carty, 27, of Fordfield Road, Sunderland, had denied six charges of
kidnap and robbery but was convicted on all counts and jailed for five years.

John McIlduff, 26,. Of Forest Road, and George Howard, 36, of Stockton Road,
both Sunderland, were each jailed for two years after being found guilty of two
charges of robbery and three of kidnap, all of which they had denied.

Alan Dixon, 35, of Forbeck Road, Sunderland, admitted three robbery charges and
was jailed for three and a half years.

Newcastle Crown Court heard the students' ordeal began when they strayed off
their path as they returned to their halls of residence last September in the
early hours of the morning and encountered the gang in a street.

Despite their experience they have all continued their studies.

Passing sentence, Judge David Wood said he accepted it was an unplanned attack,
but he told the robbers: "It is frankly disgraceful that on the first night
these three boys go out in that city simply to enjoy themselves they find
themselves being bullied, kidnapped, robbed, terrified and humiliated by you
four.

"Those boys were naive and vulnerable and you saw your chance ... subjecting
them to a long and frightening ordeal I am sure they will never forget."

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 20, 2000

PARK GIRL 'SEX ATTACK TERROR'

LENGTH: 61 words


    A TEENAGER has been charged with a sex assault on a five-year-old girl.

    The girl was in a playpark in Glenrothes, Fife, when she was allegedly
attacked by a young man yesterday.

    The accused, who is from the town, is set to appear at Kirkcaldy Sheriff
Court today.

    Fife Police have confirmed that a report will be sent to the Procurator
Fiscal.


LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2000 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 April 24, 2000

Teenage girl's assault terror;
 PARK ATTACK: 15-year-old indecently assaulted

BYLINE: Harriet Arkell Crime reporter

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 374 words


A 15-YEAR-old girl was subjected to an indecent assault in Royal Victoria Park.

Detectives are now investigating the incident and appealing for information
about the attack which took place just after 10pm on Saturday as the teenager
was walking home after a night out.

The incident has prompted officers to warn about the dangers of single woman
being out alone at night.

The girl has told detectives she was approached by a man who pulled her to the
ground before indecently assaulting her.

Police say the girl had been visiting the fair in the park with a group of
friends and at some point in the evening she slipped in the mud and fell over.

Later in the evening, at about 10pm, the girl decided to leave the fair by
herself and walk home.

She was walking towards the city centre near Royal Avenue when she was
approached by a man, close to the bandstand.

The man grabbed her from behind, pulled her to the ground and then indecently
assaulted her.

Members of Bath CID spent yesterday questioning the teenager, who is said to be
extremely distressed by the incident.

The offender is described as stocky, in his 20s and with dark hair.

Detectives say they are not linking the incident to any previous sexual offences
in the city, including the string of rapes currently under investigation by
Operation Eagle.

The assault comes two weeks after a woman walking alone in the city was pushed
against a wall and indecently sexually assaulted. The 23year-old woman was
attacked as she walked along Grove Street in the early hours of the morning.

Two weeks before that, another woman was pushed against a wall and sexually
assaulted as she walked alone in Oldfield Park. A man with a knife attacked the
37-year-old as she walked alone.

Tim Jones, of Avon and Somerset Constabulary, said: "We are particularly anxious
to contact anyone who may have been on the bandstand or in the area just after
10pm, particularly if they heard or saw anything.

"We would warn everyone, and particularly women and teenagers, not to walk alone
at night, and especially not in poorly-lit areas."

If you have information that could help police telephone 01275 818181 or call
Crimestoppers free and in confidence on 0800

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Bristol United Press

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            April 25, 2000, Tuesday

BURGLAR THREATENED TO KILL ME, SAYS OAP;
 BRAVE GILLY, 84, TELLS OF HOME ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 219 words


AN 84-YEAR-old woman told today how a burglar battered her about the head during
a terrifying raid at her home and threatened to kill her.

The pensioner, who wants to be known only as Gilly, spoke from her hospital bed
where she is recovering from a fractured skull inflicted during the attack.

Police are still hunting the young, black-clad raider, who fled with hundreds of
pounds after breaking into the woman's home in the St Thomas area of Exeter,
Devon, on Saturday.

Despite being repeatedly beaten around the head, the pensioner, who lives alone,
managed to activate an emergency alarm linked to Age Concern after the attack,
and police were alerted.

Investigate

Today Gilly, who sleeps downstairs, described how she awoke to investigate a
noise in the kitchen when a 'black thing' came at her and rained blows on her as
she lay on the floor.

'All the raider said was: 'Where's the money, give me the money, if you don't
I'll kill you'.'

The pensioner, who has vowed to return to her home, added: 'There's nothing I
could do.

'So I just lay there and thought 'If you kill me, you will kill me'.'

The police, who branded the attack vicious and cowardly, today appealed for
information about the 6ft tall raider.

He was aged between 18 and 20 and wearing a baseball cap.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 25, 2000, Tuesday

Ahern attacks new terror recruits on Easter anniversary

BYLINE: Christopher Walker, Chief Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 630 words


BERTIE AHERN, the Irish Prime Minister, spoke out over the symbolic Easter
weekend against the Continuity IRA, which has vowed to use terrorism to drive
the British from Ireland.

"The very small minority of Republicans who oppose the Good Friday agreement of
course have the right to do so politically. What is not acceptable is to try and
set aside by force the will of the people," Mr Ahern said during commemorations
of the 1916 Easter Rising in Dublin.

Mr Ahern is negotiating with Tony Blair to save the Good Friday agreement. He
warned his Fianna Fail Party that dissident paramilitary groups, many of which
are based in the republic, could delay political progress.

"The openness, transparency and accountability required by citizens in any
modern society is not compatible with undercover armies not properly amenable to
democratic control, who retain the power to hold up or frustrate political
progress", he said.

As a concession, however, to republicans who have demanded that British soldiers
are withdrawn from Ulster, he added: "Demilitarisation in the broadest sense of
the term is indispensable to confidence-building."

The Continuity IRA, which has been recruiting heavily among young Irishmen
unblooded in the republican struggle and Provisional IRA men disillusioned with
the ceasefire, said in its annual message: "The great sacrifice since that
Easter week (in 1916), right up until recent years, clearly shows that British
rule will never be accepted as either desirable or legitimate."

Earlier this month dissident republicans bombed a British military base in
Londonderry. A second base in the area was attacked weeks before and an
attempted ambush of British troops with an armour-piercing RPG-22 rocket
launcher, smuggled from the Balkans, was thwarted.

In February, the Continuity IRA bombed a Catholic-owned hotel in Irvinestown, Co
Fermanagh. The group was also responsible for an attack in Markethill, Co
Armagh, in 1997. It has accused the Real IRA, which has declared a ceasefire, of
using its name as a cover to claim recent attacks to retain privileges for Real
IRA prisoners in the Irish Republic.

In its Easter statement, the Continuity IRA criticised the peace process and
accused the British Government of vetoing negotiations.

"This so-called process has been exposed as a sham, and a device whereby
formerly militant republicans could be hoodwinked into adopting not only a
constitutional path, but urged by sections of their leadership to surrender the
means of defence, demobilise and ultimately disband."

The group called for a boycott of elections to ensure "no partitionist assembly
will have the endorsement of the vast majority of the Irish people."

Gerry Adams, the president of Sinn Fein, whose peace strategy is facing
increased criticism from the Real IRA, dismissed the Continuity IRA as a "small
micro group".

The warning by Mr Ahern coincided with the opening of the often violent
Protestant marching season, which started peacefully yesterday under leaden
skies with a low-key security presence at a rerouted parade on Ormeau Road in
Belfast.

The Northern Ireland Parades Commission will face a critical summer under Tony
Holland, its new English chairman. Mr Holland had ruled that the parade,
consisting of only 50 people, could not cross a bridge into the mainly
nationalist Lower Ormeau area.

Observers said that feelings raised by the marches would make the already
elusive efforts to rescue the ailing Good Friday agreement even harder to
achieve.

Yesterday, leaders of the Apprentice Boys, whose parade was rerouted, bitterly
criticised what they said was an attempt to impose "social apartheid" because
they were prevented from entering a Catholic district.


LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                 April 26, 2000

Firebug terror attacks
 Two fires in three hours

BYLINE: By Andrew Clark

SECTION: Crime: Fireraising, Pg.10

LENGTH: 319 words


SHOCKED residents are living in fear after firebugs struck twice within three
hours.

Police are treating two blazes in a tenement at 72 Formartine Road, Tillydrone,
as suspicious - and believe they could be linked.

Fire chiefs today said the two blazes could have put lives in danger.

The first fire was in a store room on the third floor at 11.45pm while the
second took place in a top-floor flat at 2.15am.

Dad-of-three Frank Malikebu told how he jumped out of bed twice to call the fire
brigade.

"The first time I heard someone banging on the door telling me there was a
fire," he said.

"I really started to worry when I saw smoke coming down the stairs but
thankfully the fire brigade were there quickly."

He added: "I had just managed to recover from the shock of the first incident
when it happened again.  I could not believe it."

He is now worried the firebugs may strike again.

"It is terrifying to think that someone is starting fires when my children are
sleeping in their beds," the 38-year-old architecture student said.

"The person must have had a key or known somebody in the flat because they
managed to get past the security gate."

Another neighbour, who did not want to be named, said it was the latest in a
line of incidents in Tillydrone.

"We've had to put up with people burning our bin bags for ages," the dad said.

"But this is at different level altogether and a lot more frightening."

Grampian Police believe the two incidents are the work of fire-bugs.

"We are treating these fires are suspicious," said a spokesman.

"We are also examining the possibility the two incidents may be linked."

Firefighters dealt swiftly with the fires and prevented them spreading to other
parts of the block.

A spokesman said: "Because of the location these fires could have endangered
other residents."

A male was taken to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary suffering from smoke inhalation.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2000 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            April 27, 2000, Thursday

SHOP ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 77 words


AN ELDERLY shopkeeper bravely refused to hand over money despite being
threatened with a machete by a Balaclava-clad robber.

The thug burst into the Gem Stores off-licence in Marston Lane, Bedworth, with
an accomplice at 10pm last night.

He thrust the knife at the shopkeeper and demanded the cash but the man shouted
at him and refused.

The pair then ran off towards Furnace Road.

Both were 5ft 10ins tall and one was wearing a brown coat.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                                 April 27, 2000

Young thugs target shops
 Trader is nearly blinded in teen terrorist attack

SECTION: News: 999, Pg.1

LENGTH: 517 words


Shopkeepers say they are being terrorised by gangs of thugs as young as 13.

Police in Cheltenham today promised to tackle the problems experienced by
frightened shop workers.

In the most recent attacks the out-of-control youngsters:

- Shot a female shop owner in the eye with a ballbearing fired from a catapult,

- Threw stones at staff,

- Shouted racial insults at shop workers,

- Stole dozens of items of confectionery,

- Stampeded through a newsagents' shop and threw stock from the shelves to the
floor,

- Swore at and threatened staff who refused to sell them cigarettes.

In the worst incident 62-year-old Joan Clapton was shot in the eye an hour after
she turfed a group of youths out of her premises.

The proprietor of Clapton's General Store in Prestbury Road was told by doctors
she was lucky not to be blinded.

Mrs Clapton said: "I threw a group of children out who were stealing sweets.
About an hour later they came back and a lad just stood in front of the counter
about three feet away from me and fired his catapult.

"The ballbearing hit me on the edge of my eye and I had to go to hospital.

"The doctors told me I was very lucky not to be blinded. That is what would have
happened if it had been a few millimetres the other way.

"He could only have been about 13. I'm sick and tired of this. They are a menace
but the problem is they ride around on their bikes so by the time the police get
here they are long gone."

Just 50 yards away in Winchcombe Street a group of seven thugs tried to ransack
Regency Newsagents on Tuesday evening.

Only the bravery of a passer-by and a prompt response from the police prevented
damage to the shop.

Mrs Parnee Osborne, 36, who runs the shop, says the premises have been targeted
10 times in the last three months.

She has had stones thrown at her by children as young as 13.

She said: "I work 14 hours a day, seven days a week and I am sick of this
behaviour.

"The children have come into my shop and thrown stones at me and my staff.

"I'm not scared of them because I can defend myself and do Thai boxing. But I
don't see why I should work so hard for a living and suffer such abuse.

"They throw my stock on the floor and shoplift things and swear at me and my
staff, I've had enough."

Mrs Dolat Karim who is a partner at Anisha Stores has been racially abused by
the thugs.

African Mrs Karim, 56, has had children shout 'Paki' at her.

She said: "Not all of them are bad but a fair number of them are. The young ones
come in asking for cigarettes and when you refuse them they give you abuse.

"They come in and call me a Paki. I've banned most of them from the shop."

The police say they are trying to tackle the problems caused by the youngsters.

A spokesman said: "We will be targeting this area in the near future but it is
difficult to tackle problems everywhere at once. The children tend to move from
area to area, especially during the school holidays.

"Where behaviour is anti-social as opposed to criminal we are visiting the
children's parents and drawing their attention to this behaviour."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2000 Gloucestershire Echo

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 27, 2000

Wife's terror as cycle thug attacks husband

BYLINE: Sarah Webber

SECTION: News, Pg.7

LENGTH: 151 words


A WOMAN watched in terror while her husband was assaulted in an unprovoked
attack by a teenage cyclist.

The victim, thought to be aged in his sixties, was left with a broken cheek
bone, a black eye and cut forehead after he was punched by the thug on the cycle
path at Oldland Common, Bristol.

Walking It happened while he was walking with his wife at around 8.30 pm last
Thursday.

The couple were near the level crossing at Meadow Court Drive when the cyclist
appeared on a black mountain bike.

He dismounted and punched the man in the face before making off.

A police spokesman said:

"This was a brutal and unprovoked and horrific attack."

The man later received treatment for his injuries at Frenchay hospital.

The attacker was of medium build and was wearing dark clothing.

Police are appealing for anyone with information to contact them on
Crimestoppers - 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Bristol United Press

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 27, 2000

Wife's terror as cycle thug attacks husband

BYLINE: Sarah Webber

SECTION: News, Pg.7

LENGTH: 151 words


A WOMAN watched in terror while her husband was assaulted in an unprovoked
attack by a teenage cyclist.

The victim, thought to be aged in his sixties, was left with a broken cheek
bone, a black eye and cut forehead after he was punched by the thug on the cycle
path at Oldland Common, Bristol.

Walking It happened while he was walking with his wife at around 8.30 pm last
Thursday.

The couple were near the level crossing at Meadow Court Drive when the cyclist
appeared on a black mountain bike.

He dismounted and punched the man in the face before making off.

A police spokesman said:

"This was a brutal and unprovoked and horrific attack."

The man later received treatment for his injuries at Frenchay hospital.

The attacker was of medium build and was wearing dark clothing.

Police are appealing for anyone with information to contact them on
Crimestoppers - 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Bristol United Press

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        April 28, 2000, Friday Edition 1

Student suffered terror attack

SECTION: REGIONAL NEWS, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 164 words


   A student was subjected to a terrifying sex attack by a teenage stranger who
followed her off a bus, Newcastle Crown Court was told yesterday.

Leigh Tarry molested her as she walked home after a night out with friends in
the city centre.

She managed to push him off but he struck again, at one point punching her hard
in the face.

Passers-by running to help the woman scared him off and one recognised Tarry,
who was quickly arrested.

The victim said that since her ordeal she had suffered constant nightmares and
panic attacks.

Tarry, 18, of Carnforth Green, North Kenton, Newcastle, admitted assault and
indecent assault and was put on probation for three years with a condition of
sex offender treatment and residence.

Judge Michael Cartlidge said he had been considering a custodial sentence but at
the end of the day probation was the best way to stop him doing something like
that again.

He said any breach of the order would end in custody.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 1, 2000, Monday

HOSPITALS TOLD TO MAKE EMERGENCY PLANS TO COPE WITH BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM ATTACKS

BYLINE: Jeremy Laurance Health Editor

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 372 words


NHS HOSPITALS and health authorities have been warned to make emergency plans in
case of a biological weapon attack by terrorists. The threat of an attack has
been described by the British Medical Association as "at an all time high".

Guidance to all NHS trusts, ambulance services and directors of public health
was issued last month.

Police teams trained by scientists from Porton Down, the Government's research
centre on biological and chemical warfare, would take a lead role in the event
of an attack. Joint Health Advisory Cells, combining local police and medical
authorities, would be established. A Health Department spokesman said: "The
purpose is to enhance our ability to respond to an attack, although there is no
suggestion any group is planning one."

The head of health policy and research at the British Medical Association,
Professor Vivienne Nathanson, said biological weapons had been more difficult to
produce than chemical weapons, but that was changing. "The level of risk is at
an all time high because the technology is making it easier," she said.

In February, Donna Shalala, the US Secretary of Health and Human Services,
called for the stockpiling of drugs and vaccines and urged public health
officials to prepare for a criminal or terrorist attack involving biological
weapons.

Sarin nerve gas was used in an attack by a Japanese terrorist organisation five
years ago, in which 12 people were killed and 5,000 injured. In the US, the
potentially catastrophic consequences of an attack using anthrax or the smallpox
virus has led President Clinton to raise the bio-terrorism budget from $ 158m
last year to $ 230m this year.

In the UK, the likelihood of an attack is considered low by the Health
Department.

Britain was approaching the problem in a quiet manner, in contrast to the US,
which had been subject to a spate of hoaxes, according to an article in the
current issue of the journal of the Association of Clinical Pathologists. One of
its authors, Dr Nigel Lightfoot, director of the Public Health Laboratory
Service in Newcastle, said Britain had the best system of surveillance in the
world with its network of public health laboratories.

More reports, page 4

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Threat of biological attack is at an 'all time high'

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                  May 4, 2000

Horror attack on pet
 OAP tells of terror as dog mauls his Sheltie

BYLINE: By Angela Robb

SECTION: Pg.3

LENGTH: 281 words


A GREAT grandad's beloved pet was savagely mauled by a powerful dog.

Ron Mennie's 15-year-old Shetland sheepdog, Ben, was attacked by what is
believed to have been a Japanese Akita.

Mr Mennie, who has had two hip replacement operations, said he was thrown into
the middle of the road by the force of the dog's attack in Craigevar Crescent,
Garthdee.

Police today confirmed they had traced the dog's owner and he was warned about
his pet's behaviour. No charges were brought against him.

Mr Mennie, 78, tried to fight off the Akita with his walking stick to rescue his
cherished pet.

He said Ben was left bleeding heavily, with his left side badly torn.

The struggle also left Mr Mennie, of Garthdee, short of breath and with bloodied
hands.

He said: "Ben is lucky to be alive.

"This dog came from nowhere. I was holding Ben's lead and all of a sudden I was
thrownto the middle of the road.

"It was mauling and biting Ben all over the body. It was horrible.

"I hit it with my walking stick but the dog would not move.

"I was terrified. I was becoming short of breath. Eventually the owner came
round the corner and got his dog off Ben.

"I told him his dog should have a muzzle or be on a lead. He was rude and didn't
apologise."

Ben is still recovering from the ordeal, which took place six weeks ago.

Mr Mennie said it should be compulsory for all dogs to be kept on a lead
regardless of their size and breed.

The powerful Akita is considered to be the national breed of Japan and has
historically been used for hunting bear, wild boar, sable and deer.

Measuring up to 28 inches in height, they are today used extensively in police,
army and guard dog work.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2000 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              May 5, 2000, Friday

GIRL, 11, TERRORISED IN RACE HATE ATTACK

BYLINE: David Jones

SECTION: Pg. 33

LENGTH: 240 words


A TERRIFIED 11-year-old Sandwell girl dived for cover when an attacker assaulted
her father with a pickaxe handle before systematically wrecking his car.

Gurpreet Kaur watched in horror as her father was beaten and up to 30 blows
rained down on the vehicle during the frenzied attack in Trinity Street, West
Bromwich.

Her father, Dilbagh Mangat, of Woodlands Avenue, Smethwick, needed hospital
treatment for injuries suffered as he tried to stop the assailant.

The 52-year-old former tank regiment trooper said he received a volley of racist
abuse when he parked his Ford Granada outside the man's house just before 5pm on
Wednesday.

Orgy of violence

The attacker then smashed windows and bodywork in a ten-minute orgy of violence
which left Mr Mangat with knee and shoulder injuries.

Mr Mangat said: 'I had gone to pick up my sister-in-law from work when this man
came out of a house, racially abused us and started saying we had no right to
park there.

'My daughter had just come back to the car when he started hammering it with a
pickaxe handle.

'I shouted to Gurpreet to stay on the other side of the road and got out of the
car to try to stop him, which was when I got injured.'

Traders in the area said that up to five vehicles had suffered similar attacks
in recent weeks.

A police spokesman confirmed officers were called to the incident and arrested a
man on suspicion of criminal damage.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STREET ORDEAL: Dilbagh Mangat and his daughter Gurpreet Kaur and their
damaged car

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                  May 8, 2000

Residents vow to get rid of tiny terror gang
 community shocked at attack on helpless pensioner

BYLINE: By Danny Chatfield

SECTION: Crime: Gangs/Groups, Pg.2

LENGTH: 409 words


RESIDENTS of a community where a pensioner was set alight have vowed to rid the
estate of the gang which is terrorising it.

The 65-year-old needed hospital treatment after she was attacked by a gang of
young thugs, some aged just nine, who surrounded her and used a cigarette
lighter to set her hair on fire.

Following Friday evening's incident, residents in the Leek New Road area of
Cobridge have gathered to discuss ways to remove the yobs.

Many on the estate have had their homes and property broken into or vandalised.
Some have been driven out of their homes and many say they live in fear.

Steve Buckley, aged 41, and his wife Della live in Adkins Street, close to the
pensioner's home.

Della, aged 37, said: "The elderly lady has her newspaper delivered despite
living very close to the newsagent because she is terrified to leave her home.

"What happened to that old lady was disgusting, but not surprising considering
the problems in this area. We are all living in fear.

"When we first moved in, it was a smashing area. We had a beautiful view of the
fields behind the house which are now masked by the 6ft fence we've had to put
up.

"We've had to get rid of our caravan because it was broken into so many times.
Our cable for the satellite was ripped from the wall only last weekend.

The couple, who live with their three children, aged 12, nine and four, have
been told by the city council to keep a log-book and to write down every
incident.

It is hoped by residents that the diary can be used to impose anti -social
behaviour orders on gang members which will allow authorities to put curfews on
the youngsters, or as a last resort evict them.

Steve said: "They are more than a nuisance, they are dangerous. Our children are
not allowed further than the backyard.

"We've tried having words with the parents but had nothing but verbal abuse from
them."

Julie Manning, aged 36, of Adkins Street, lives with her partner Martin Minor
and says she is terrified to walk outside and wants to leave the area.

She said: "I bought a brand new car five months ago which has been scratched
with keys, dented, windows smashed and cement thrown at it.

"One occasion, our house was broken into and my handbag stolen while I was
sitting in the other room.

"This used to be an area where you could sit outside with a cup of coffee and
have a good chin-wag with the neighbours. Now, nobody will go outside unless
they have to."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Residents from the Adkins Street area of Cobridge meet to plan action
against the tin y thugs. Photo: MALCOLM HART

                          Copyright 2000 The Sentinel

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                  May 9, 2000

Brutal attack in phone box
 TERROR: Cord was wound round neck of girl, 16

BYLINE: Jayne Freer Crime Reporter

SECTION: News: 999, Pg.9

LENGTH: 288 words


A TERRIFIED teenage girl had a telephone cord wrapped around her neck by a
robber who stripped her of her jewellery.

The 16-year-old girl was attacked from behind as she made a telephone call from
a kiosk in Cecil Street on Sunday afternoon.

With her arms pinned behind her back, the man stole several rings from her
fingers, a necklace, her watch and handbag.

Police say the girl was left very shaken, with swelling and redness to her
forehead and a sore neck.

The robber struck sometime between 5.45pm and 6.10pm, and detectives would like
to speak to anyone who may have witnessed the attack.

Some items of jewellery, believed to belong to the girl, have since been handed
into police by a member of the public who found them at the rear of Belmont
Street.

Officers would like to speak to anyone who may have seen a man in a blue
baseball cap fleeing in that direction.

Plymouth police spokesman Pc Stuart Elford said: "It was a terrifying attack on
a young girl who has had items of sentimental value stolen.

"I would appeal to anyone who may have been in the area, anyone who may have
been offered jewellery for sale or anyone with information to contact us."

Among the items of jewellery taken was a full sovereign ring, a gold ring with
three garnet stones, a diamond cluster ring and blue topaz ring and two V-shaped
rings.

A gold necklace with S-shaped links and a Bay silver-coloured wrist watch were
also taken, along with a Miss Selfridge black handbag containing a Top Shop
purse, cash, cigarettes and make -up.

Her attacker was described as around 5ft 7ins tall and wearing a navy blue
baseball cap.

Anyone with information is asked to contact the police on 0990 700400 quoting
EC/00/3650.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2000 Evening Herald

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                              May 12, 2000, Friday

KILLER HUNTED AFTER ATTACK IN SCRUBLAND OF TERROR

BYLINE: Robert Westhead Special Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 445 words


Police were yesterday hunting the killer of a woman who was knifed to death
while walking her dog on a woodland footpath.

The victim, in her thirties, died from a single stab wound to the chest in
Munden Drive, Watford, Hertfordshire.

She has been identified by police, but officers were still trying to contact her
parents.

Detectives said another dog walker stumbled on the victim's bloodstained body at
6pm on Tuesday and flagged down a passing patrol car.

Hertfordshire Constabulary said the path was close to a spot where two 11-year
-old girls were sexually assaulted a month ago, but were not linking the cases.

A spokesman for Hertfordshire Police said: 'We urgently need to hear from anyone
who was in the area between 1pm and 7pm and saw anything suspicious.'

The spot where the woman was found is only a few hundred yards from the scene of
the sex attack on the 11-year-olds on April 7.

The girls, who were also walking a dog, were persuaded by a man to go with him
to scrubland next to a golf driving range, where he forced them to the ground
and assaulted them.

Local residents last night said they were now afraid to walk along the usually
quiet tree-lined path, a popular spot for dog walkers and families who sometimes
come from miles around.

Peter Sargent, 38, of Eastlea Avenue, said: 'I have lived here for 13 years and
you get the odd incident, but there's been nothing like this. It'll stop people
coming here for some time.'

Another woman said: 'I used to go along there on my bike when I was a child.
Lots of people walk their dogs around there, but I don't use it much now,
especially given everything that's been going on.'

Det Supt Les Bollan, who is leading the murder investigation, said: 'It doesn't
matter if people do not think they saw anything of interest, we still would like
them to contact us.'

Police are anxious to trace a white, bare-chested man seen nearby by witnesses
carrying a white T-shirt.

The suspect was described as being in his mid-twenties, 5ft 7ins to 5ft 10ins
tall, of slim build, with mousey brown hair and a thin, pointed face.

Police officers were tonight keeping watch at the murder scene and sealed off
the footpath which runs alongside the private driveway leading to Munden House.

Residents in the area said they were now afraid to walk along the usually quiet
tree-lined path, a popular spot for dog walkers and families who sometimes come
from miles around.

Peter Sargent, 38, of Eastlea Avenue, said: 'I have lived here for 13 years and
you get the odd incident, but there's been nothing like this. It'll stop people
coming here for some time.'

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                  May 18, 2000

Taxi pair tell of terror attack by thug

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 130 words



A FATHER and son fell victim to weapon-wielding thug Jonathan Carroll.

Using an iron bar or baseball bat, the 19-year-old caused more than GBP 1,000
worth of damage to two cars belonging to Athaur Rehman and his son Aqueel
Ur-Rehman. A Bury was told taxi driver Aqueel was stopped by youths on Holme
Avenue and after a vicious altercation,'' he managed to drive away.  Later,
Aqueel was in his father's car when they were confronted by Carroll, who
shattered their windscreen. They escaped, but when Aqueel went back to his own
car he found every window smashed.

Carroll, currently serving a 15-month young offender's term, pleaded guilty to
causing unlawful damage and theft.  Magistrates ordered him to appear at Crown
Court on June 14.


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2000 Manchester Evening News

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 22, 2000, Monday

Police thwart firebomb attack by animal welfare terrorists

BYLINE: Daniel McGrory

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 321 words


Animal welfare activists have pledged to intensify their campaign against meat
and dairy factories after their latest firebomb attacks. Bomb disposal officers
had to defuse nine devices at a meat processing plant in Oxfordshire at the
weekend after one exploded in the lorry park.

After the attack, which left one lorry burnt out, a senior police officer said:
"The risk is that someone is going to get seriously hurt as these groups use
more powerful devices."

There were no injuries in the attack on Mutchmeats Ltd at Witney, but police
said that the ten devices would have caused widespread damage had they all
exploded.

No group claimed to have carried out the attack but one campaigner said that the
Animal Liberation Front was the most likely culprit. Robin Webb said: "Due to
the seriousness of the offences and the sentences handed out, it would be very
unusual for anyone to claim responsibility. However, placing devices under
refrigerated meat lorries bears all the hallmarks of the Animal Liberation Front
and I'm confident this was their work."

He added: "The meat industry is the largest area of animal abuse there is and
that is why it is regularly targeted. The intention is economic sabotage. It's
not just aimed at the site but it has a knock-on effect across the industry
because insurance and security costs increase."

It was the second incident in as many hours involving the Animal Liberation
Front, which claimed that it had attacked Regal Rabbits in Great Bookham,
Surrey. The group said that the centre was used for breeding rabbits for
vivisection.

"Activists avoided external and internal alarms by drilling through an outer
wall and smashed through the ventilation system," an ALF spokesman said.

Last August, in attacks that caused Pounds 1 million worth of damage, 19 lorries
were set on fire at Unigate Dairies, Oxford, and four at Tadmartin Poultry in
Banbury.


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             May 25, 2000, Thursday

MY ROAD RAGE ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 71 words


A WITNESS broke down in tears yesterday as he told how he begged his alleged
attacker not to hit in a road rage attack.

Kenneth Buckie, 38, told Inverness Sheriff Court how he screamed as a van driver
thrust a broken bottle at him late at night on a country road near Ankerville,
Easter Ross, last year.

Allan Cunningham, 29, of Greenock, Renfrewshire, denies assault and attempted
murder charges.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2000 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        May 27, 2000, Saturday Edition 1

Attacker's catalogue of terror

BYLINE: by Vanessa Allen

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 34

LENGTH: 348 words


   A sex attacker who preyed on young women for four years said yesterday he was
"eternally sickened" by his crimes.

Keith Parton, 26, admitted five kidnaps, six indecent assaults, one false
imprisonment and seven burglaries and asked for two other kidnaps and two
indecent assaults to be taken into consideration.

He was jailed for eight years at Winchester Crown Court yesterday but said his
worst punishment was his own horror at the sex attacks.

Keith Parton, of Stanmore, Winchester, who was 17 when the attacks began, said
in a letter to the judge that he had assaulted the women when he felt angry or
rejected after the break-up of his family.

He said he sexually assaulted a 15-year-old girl in the place where he had last
seen his older sister.

The court heard his teenage victim had since died.

Judge Patrick Hooton, sentencing, said: "What you did was to institute a reign
of terror in Winchester at night and you committed, having targeted these women,
really the worst kind of indecent assault.

"It is as bad as a rape."

Parton, an RAF cadet, Duke of Edinburgh award-winner and shop manager,
indecently assaulted eight women aged between 15 and 30 between October 1990 and
December 1994.

He grabbed seven of his victims on the streets of Winchester as they walked home
alone and broke into seven nurses' rooms, stealing underwear from five of the
women.

Parton told police he targeted the women because they were young.

He was often masked, threatened several women with a knife and sometimes made
his victims strip before forcing them to perform sex acts, the court heard.

In his letter to the judge, Parton said he had exorcised his demons since the
final attack in December 1994 and was no longer a threat to women.

He said: "Not a day has gone by when I have not grieved for the innocent girls
and their families who I have hurt. This includes my own."

He said he had been "a dangerous menace" and a monster between 1990 and 1994
when he had hated women because he blamed his older sister Angela for a split in
his family.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jailed: Keith Parton.

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 27, 2000, Saturday

TERRORISTS BLOCK ROAD FOR ATTACK

BYLINE: Neil Crossey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 287 words


REPUBLICAN paramilitaries closed off three roads in South Armagh to allow them
to bomb an army observation post, it was revealed yesterday.

A police spokesman said that road closed signs and traffic cones were used to
divert traffic away from the scene of the attack at Glassdrumman near
Crossmaglen.

Former IRA members opposed to the Good Friday Agreement have been blamed for the
attack which took place at 11.30pm on Wednesday night.

The device, a mortar bomb containing a quantity of home-made explosives, landed
just a short distance from the observation post but it did not go off.

No soldiers were hurt in the attack.

The paramilitaries had closed off the Glassdrumman, Lurgan and Leeter Roads
before driving the vehicle through a fence to launch the mortar.

Police said yesterday that a grey transit van was used to carry the bomb.

The van had been fitted with a single improvised mortar tube and a hole had been
cut in the roof of the van to accommodate the device.

The vehicle had been stolen from the Belfast area earlier this month.

A police spokesman said that the back doors of the van were blown open by the
force of the blast as the mortar was launched.

The attack occurred on the same day that police in the Irish Republic seized
bomb-making equipment belonging to dissident Republican paramilitary group the
Real IRA.

It had been feared that the Real IRA was planning terrorist attacks in Northern
Ireland in the run up to Saturday's crucial vote by the Ulster Unionist Council.

A police spokesman said that searches were being carried out as part of a
continuing investigation into the Real IRA and that tests were being conducted
on the recovered material.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                  May 27, 2000

OAPs in syringe attack terror
 Assault in own home

SECTION: Crimes & Dossiers: Crimes on elderly, Pg.7

LENGTH: 266 words


POLICE are hunting a syringe-wielding youth who attacked an elderly couple in
their home.

The terrifying assault took place in Cromwell Street, Mansfield, at around
8.50pm on Thursday as the elderly man watched The Bill.

When he answered a knock at the door, the youth forced his way in and demanded
money, threatening to stab him.

In the violent struggle which followed, the youth produced a syringe and the
man's forearm was cut, although police cannot confirm how.

His wife, aged 77, was knocked to the floor before the youth fled empty-handed.

The victim, who was 79 yesterday, was taken to King's Mill Centre in Sutton with
minor injuries and shock.

He also had blood tests, although police said there was no reason to believe the
syringe contained anything harmful.

A police spokesman said: "I can confirm that we are looking for a white youth in
connection with the attack in Cromwell Street.

"This was an unprovoked attack on a defenceless elderly couple and we are
treating it very seriously indeed.

"We are obviously looking for a very desperate person. Although we have no
strong ideas about the attacker's motives, the fact that he produced a syringe
may suggest the attack was drug -related.

"The elderly couple are too shaken up to talk about the attack at the moment."

The youth was aged 16-18, slim, and around 5ft 8in. He had a fair complexion and
short, fair hair, and may have been wearing a baseball cap.

He wore an orange/red jumper, dark trousers and a light green T-shirt.

Witnesses should call Detective Constable Carl Randall on 01623 420999.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2000 Nottingham Evening Post

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 28, 2000

MY TERROR OVER ATTACK BY BARCLAYS BODYGUARD

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE BY ANTHONY MITCHELL

LENGTH: 440 words


A FORMER Marine hired to guard the boss of Barclays Bank is to appear in court
accused of attacking a customer from a rival firm.

Derek Humble is alleged to have grabbed a 57-year-old woman with a heart
condition, leaving her with torn muscles in her neck and back.

His firm, Anvil Group Inc, has been paid GBP 160,000 for two bodyguards for Matt
Barrett, the bank's GBP 6.7million chief executive.

Canadian-born Barrett, 55, lives in constant fear of physical attack after
shutting 171 country branches last month and bringing in charges for
hole-in-the-wall cash withdrawals.

Anne Holmes, 57, an interior designer, claims she was attacked by Mr Humble, the
chief executive of Anvil, on December 15 last year at a Sun Life Assurance
policy holders meeting in Toronto. Sun Life have since said they will never use
Anvil again. Barclays admitted they knew of the incident.

Mrs Holmes, a British citizen who has a heart murmur and high blood pressure,
was addressing the audience from the stage but was dragged off when she
questioned why Sun Life wanted to become a public company.

"I had my back to the stage when Derek Humble and this woman were right on top
of me. He was holding me so tightly I thought he was going to break my arm. He
also told me they were police and I was under arrest. People at the meeting
screamed at him that he should be charged. He was pacing like a rabid animal. I
was terrified of these people, I felt sick and hurt and feared I would have a
heart attack."

Mr Humble, who worked for Mr Barrett at his previous job with the Bank of
Montreal, set up a UK branch of Anvil to guard the Barclays boss in London.

Rebecca Davies, spokesman for Barclays, said: "Our understanding is that the
case will not be proceeding and that Derek Humble is not facing any charges."

But Humble is actually due to appear before Old City Hall criminal court in
Toronto on July 13, charged with criminal assault.

A spokeswoman for Sun Life Financial, said it would not be using Anvil again.
"It's a matter before the courts. Hiring Anvil was a one-off, they were there
for back-up. They won't be back."

Mr Humble tried to play down the incident last night, claiming people had
cheered when he dragged Mrs Holmes out. "She filed a complaint against us to do
with her being lawfully removed from a meeting she was protesting at and we
handed her over to the police," he said from his home in Canada."She was not
ejected forcefully and there was a cop there within two minutes. It's part and
parcel of life in private security. The crown have to investigate. It's not
going to go anywhere."

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 30, 2000, Tuesday

IRA BEATING GANGS TAKE PUNISHMENT TERROR OVER THE BORDER;
 VICTIMS ATTACKED WITH HAMMERS

BYLINE: Elaine Keogh And Deirdre O'Donovan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 485 words


THE IRA is bringing its campaign of so-called punishment beatings into the
Republic, it was learned yesterday.

Two men were left with horrendous injuries after being attacked by paramilitary
gangs in Dundalk, Co Louth, just across the border.

A relative of victim Robert Keelan, 23, said yesterday: "The people who did this
were definitely IRA but I wouldn't please them by calling them that. They were
just thugs."

Both victims were ordered to leave the country - and so was one of their
partners and their young child.

Louth TD Brendan McGahon hit out at the IRA yesterday. He said: "Nobody deserves
this treatment. It is a kangaroo court that has crept in from across the border.

"The people behind these beating are paramilitary operators and I lay the blame
with the Provisional IRA," he said.

One of the men is still in hospital having undergone a five-hour operation for
head injuries.

The attacks happened within an hour of each other in the Muirhevnamore estate.

Mr Keelan was with his girlfriend and their three-month-old daughter when a gang
of men burst in to their home.

They held back his girlfriend and his 14-year-old sister while they beat him
with iron bars, pickaxe handles, baseball bats and sledgehammers. "

The family were told that Robert had been involved in drugs but have denied
this, saying it is untrue and being used an excuse for the assaults. Mr McGahon
has put up photographs of the victims on the walls of his office.

"I have put these pictures up because I feel outraged and these attacks are an
outrage to the town and the law-abiding people who live here.

"Any society must stamp out these kangaroo courts and men taking the law into
their own hands."

Dundalk Garda Superintendent Michael Staunton said the Garda investigation into
the assaults was continuing.

"Gardai are horrified at the savagery with which these young men were beaten. We
are taking them very seriously.

"Unfortunately, Dundalk has been one of the few places in this jurisdiction to
suffer this.

"It is an import, is not part of the culture or life of this town and we are
very concerned that it should keep occurring," he added.

However, he wouldn't be drawn on whether the IRA carried out the attacks.

"I don't want to speculate. Deputy McGahon has the courage and freedom to say
those things. He is coming from a different place. I don't know what to
speculate about the different organisations.

"These people are setting themselves up as judge, jury and executioner and this
is totally unacceptable."

A spokesman for Sinn Fein in Dundalk said that he was not aware of the
punishment beatings.

"We are aware of Mr McGahon's claims, but it is Mr McGahon's anti-republican
bias which causes him to make these claims.

"We have seen reports in the newspapers about alleged punishment beatings but we
know nothing about them."

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORRIFIC: Robert Keelan shows his injuries after the IRA attack;; FEAR:
23-year-old Robert has been ordered to leave the country

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       May 31, 2000, Wednesday Edition 1

New bid to banish the the bullies -;
Schools told to go on the attack to help victims of schoolyard terror

BYLINE: by Rachel Kerr education Reporter

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 306 words


   A MUM who claims her daughter was persistently bullied has welcomed new
guidelines to wipe out the problem.

The National Association of Head Teachers made it one of the first issues to be
discussed at the start of its annual conference this week.

Heads will be given guidance on how to stop bullying, how to spot the signs a
child is being bullied and how vital it is to deal with the problem.

Linda Halliday, of Langley Park, Co Durham, decided to withdraw her daughter
Angela, 11, from Langley Park Primary School, over claims of persistent
bullying.

She decided to take drastic action after her daughter told her she would commit
suicide if she was forced to go back to school. Angela has been having tuition
at home since October.

Mrs Halliday welcomed the new guidelines.

She said: "Schools have got to take notice so it is not something which is just
swept under the carpet.

"Angela used to go to bed crying because she was so upset about what was
happening."

The school said it had carried out investigations into the allegations and has
always maintained they were unfounded.

The NAHT has made a series of key points in its guidelines to members. Among
them are that ultimately it is the responsibility of the whole school community
to wipe out bullying by developing a caring a supportive ethos.

It also said bullying can be a range of behaviour including physical, verbal,
emotional, racist and sexual and disciplinary rules should encourage good
behaviour and respect for others.

It said children will not always be prepared to tell people in authority they
are being bullied and allegations should always be taken seriously.

In November, charity ChildLine it had received more than 1,000 calls from North
East youngsters about bullying last year, compared with 865 the year before.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GOOD NEWS - Linda Halliday, with her daughter Angela who claims she was
bullied at school, welcomes new guidelines

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                  June 1, 2000

Four saved in arson attack
 TERROR FOR PEOPLE TRAPPED UPSTAIRS IN FLAT FIRE

BYLINE: By Steve Willey And Madeleine Brindley

SECTION: News, Pg.12

LENGTH: 265 words


FOUR terrified people were rescued after a suspected arson attack on their home.

The fire broke out during the early hours today in the stairwell of a house in
Selwyn Close, Basford.

Two women, a 25-year-old man and a two -year-old girl were trapped in the
upstairs flat.

They smashed a window and were about to jump when crews from Stockhill and
Arnold fire stations arrived and put up a ladder.

The toddler was handed out of the flat by householder Scott Harrison before he
and the two women were rescued.

Speaking to the Evening Post, Mr Harrison said: "It was a terrifying ordeal
which has really shaken us all.

"One minute we were upstairs talking in the living room when suddenly we noticed
smoke coming from the stairwell.

"There was nowhere to go and we were all very scared.

"We smashed the window and were getting ready to jump, but thankfully the fire
brigade arrived just in time."

The fire is thought to have started after someone pushed lighted material
through the letter box.

The two women, who did not want to be named, and the girl, were taken to the
Queen's Medical Centre after breathing in smoke.

Fire sub-officer Bob Hill said: "This was potentially a nasty fire which trapped
four people in an upstairs flat.

"We managed to get the occupants out of a rear window before breaking down the
front door to tackle the fire.

"We are treating it as malicious and are sending a team to investigate it
today."

The incident, which took place at about 1.40am, is also being investigated by
the police.

It caused serious damage to the hall and stairwell.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: NO WAY OUT: Scott Harrison in the charred stairwell

                     Copyright 2000 Nottingham Evening Post

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 2, 2000, Friday

NURSE'S TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Gordon Mcilwraith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 165 words


A PSYCHIATRIC nurse threatened to cut his estranged wife's throat after she told
him she didn't want him back.

John Healy, 35, snapped and repeatedly hit out at wife Angela with a kitchen
knife.

At the High Court in Edinburgh yesterday, Lord Penrose jailed Healy for three
years and told him the attack in January this year was "beyond what can be
tolerated in civilised society".

Healy, who was originally charged with attempted murder, admitted assaulting his
wife and leaving her scarred for life.

During the vicious attack at the couple's former home in Barrhead, Renfrewshire,
Healy sat on his wife holding the knife at her throat.

Police later described Healy as having a "manic expression" when they arrived at
the house - they were forced to hit him over the head with a baton when he
refused to give up the knife.

His wife was taken to hospital and treated for a gash on her chin and cuts to
her hand suffered as she desperately tried to defend herself.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                  June 2, 2000

Nature trail terror as sex attacker strikes again

BYLINE: By Roger Houldcroft

SECTION: Crime: Sex Offence, Pg.11

LENGTH: 266 words


POLICE hunting a man who sexually assaulted a woman as she walked along a nature
trial in Stafford believe he may have struck for a second time.

In the latest incident yesterday a woman was accosted as she walked to work at
about 6.30am over a bridge near the Civic Offices in Stafford town centre. She
was grabbed by the man, who was walking a small brown dog, but when she
challenged him he left the scene.

Inspector Tony Jackson, who is leading the hunt for the attacker, said the
victim, who was single, was very shocked and upset by the incident.

He said it was possibly linked to an indecent assault on a 30-year-old local
woman near the Pennycrofts flats in Corporation Street.

She was hit across the back of her legs by an unknown instrument before falling
to the ground.

She was then indecently assaulted by her attacker and left in a distressed
state. She suffered injuries to her head, face and wrists and has been treated
in hospital.

Inspector Jackson said: The descriptions of the man that we have been given in
both cases is very similar and the attacker was walking a small dog. The
locations of the attacks are also very close.

We are interested to hear from anyone who may have been in the area of the Civic
Offices and the bridge or the Pennycrofts flats."

The attacker is aged in his mid-thirties and he is described as about 5ft 8ins
tall with short, blond hair. In the latest incident the man was wearing a navy
blue sweater, canvas trousers and a T-shirt.

Anyone with information on the two attacks is urged to contact detectives on
01785 258151.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2000 The Sentinel

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              June 5, 2000, Monday

PETROL BOMB IS THROWN AT PUB;
 ATTACK TERROR FOR FAMILY

BYLINE: Louise Grifferty

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 287 words


THE landlord of a Black Country pub today spoke of his terror after a vandal
tried to petrol bomb his premises.

Michael Collins, licensee of the Royal Exchange in Darlaston, told of his fears
for his family during an explosion caused by a hooligan who hurled a home-made
device at the hostelry.

Mr Collins had just gone to bed when he heard the bomb go off at the back of the
Wolverhampton Street pub at 2.40am yesterday .

'I heard a huge bang and looked out of the window to see someone running off
opposite the pub,' he said.

'My wife Linda was petrified.'

He said the device went off as it shattered the first pane of a double glazed
window.

Mr Collins added: 'The police told me they had never had any trouble like this
at the pub before. I had a bit of trouble earlier that night so it could have
been a bit of pay back or revenge but I do not know.

Fortunately the bomb failed to smash through the second window pane so neither
Mr and Mrs Collins - who have been running the pub for just four months - were
hurt. Their four-year-old daughter Letisha managed to sleep through the attack.

Insp Ian Grundy of Willenhall police today said the incident was under
investigation and added: 'The consequences of such actions speak for themselves.
On this occasion we were very fortunate that we were not dealing with something
more serious like injury or loss of life.'

He said there was no known motive for what had happened and appealed for anyone
with information to come forward.

A white man with a skin head hairstyle wearing a black t-shirt and blue jeans
was seen running away from the scene.

Anyone with information is urged to contact Willenhall police on 01922 439020.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                         June 5, 2000, Monday Edition 1

Terror attacks claim

SECTION: WORLD TONIGHT, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 96 words


   A man who said he co-ordinated most of Iran's terror operations of the past
decade has claimed responsibility for the Lockerbie bombing and the lorry bomb
blast at the Khobar Towers US airmen's barracks in Saudia Arabia, according to
an American TV news report.

The man, named as Ahmad Behbanani, claims he proposed the 1988 Pan Am plane
bombing, recruited a Palestinian terrorist living in Syria, then imported and
trained Libyan operatives to do the job in revenge for a US Navy cruiser's
blunder five months earlier in shooting down an Iranian passenger plane.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  June 6, 2000

Tourists flee Belfast terrorism attack

BYLINE: Ted Oliver

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 184 words


NEARLY 40 foreign tourists fled a terrorist attack in Belfast last night after
their vehicles were set alight outside their hostel.

The attack on the tourists' three minibuses and one car happened at around
1.30am and is being blamed on loyalists from the nearby Shankill Road area.

The vehicles all carried distinctive Irish Republic number plates.

The tourists, mostly in their late teens or early twenties from America, South
Africa and New Zealand, evacuated the hostel after a telephoned warning claimed
that a bomb had been planted in one of the vehicles.

The group spent the rest of the night in a nearby church and most have now
returned to Dublin.

Sally Szwed, 19, from Boston, Massachusetts, said : "It was absolutely
terrifying.

It was our first night in Belfast and we were woken by banging on our doors at
1.30am. We had to rush out in our night-clothes because their was a danger of
the building catching fire.

"Everyone had said how friendly the people are and how much the place had
changed but we are too scared to stay here any longer than necessary."


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                              June 9, 2000, Friday

TERRORISTS GUN DOWN DIPLOMAT;
 ATTACKERS KILL BRITISH ATTACHE IN ATHENS

BYLINE: Rachael Crofts Special Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 544 words


A British diplomat and decorated army officer was assassinated in a suspected
terrorist attack as he drove to work in the Greek capital of Athens yesterday.

Father-of-two Brig Stephen Saunders, aged 52, who has a home near Dorchester,
Dorset, was fatally wounded in a hail of bullets as he drove to the British
embassy.

Local police said two men on a motorcycle fired through the passenger- side
window of his white Rover saloon on Kifissias Avenue in the suburb of Chalandri
as he drove through rush-hour traffic at 7.30am local time.

Left-wing terrorists who have attacked British and US targets in Greece in the
past are chief suspects in the murder, which was condemned by Mr Tony Blair as a
"contemptible and senseless" act of terrorism.

The Prime Minister, who spoke to the brigadier's widow Heather, paid tribute to
him as a "consummate professional".

Mr Blair also spoke to the Greek prime minister who expressed his "shock and
sorrow" at the killing and assured him that the authorities would do everything
they could to track down the killers, said Mr Blair's official spokesman.

The spokesman said that the British authorities were now working very closely
with their Greek counterparts in order to find the perpetrators.

He said the killing was a "tragic reminder" of the risks faced by British
diplomats working abroad.

Mr Blair regarded the murder as "an act of terrorism, which is as contemptible
as it is senseless and which will be condemned by all right minded people".

The brigadier's widow was being comforted by Defence Minister Baroness Symons,
who arrived in Greece on Wednesday on an official visit and was met by the
brigadier.

The Baroness said: "The Brigadier was an enormously valued member of
Ambassador's staff. I had talks with him yesterday evening, he was nice enough
to meet me from the plane, he came on some of the discussions that we had and I
have, of course been with his wife this morning.

"It is a tragedy that such a good man has had his life cut short and that a
woman has lost a much-loved husband as have his children, much loved by him.

"We are all deeply, deeply sorry about what has happened."

Brig Saunders, the defence attache at the embassy in Ploutarchou Street, was
shot in the chest, spleen and arms. Doctors fought to save him but he died in
hospital a couple of hours after the attack.

The British Ambassador to Greece, Mr David Maddens said: "My initial reaction
was one of shock, horror and disbelief. Stephen was such a valued and lively
member of the embassy."

Suspicion immediately fell on the terrorist cell November 17, which has claimed
responsibility for 21 killings since 1975.

The attackers used a .45 calibre gun - a trademark of the November 17
organisation.

Yesterday in the Dorset village of Melbury Osmond where the Saunders family have
a home, neighbours spoke of their shock.

Mr Derek Caulfield said: "I'm devastated by the news.

"It still feels very raw to me having found out today what happened. I've known
him for about two years, since I moved down here really.

"He was basically an honest and straightforward man who told you what he
thought.

"He was a decent person."

He added: "It's a very sad business."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Horror: Police and onlookers stand by the blood-stained car in; Athens
where British diplomat Brig Stephen Saunders was shot by terrorists.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 13, 2000, Tuesday

MEDICS READY FOR TERRORIST CHEMICAL ATTACKS

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 183 words


AMBULANCE paramedics have unveiled their front line role in a Midland-wide
emergency action plan over 'Doomsday' contamination incidents.

Units covering the West Midlands, Staffordshire, Warwickshire and Worcestershire
aim to be ready for any incident, including the use of biological weapons by
terrorists.

Professor Richard Wise, from the Department of Medical Microbiology at City
Hospital, Birmingham, had expressed fears that cults and extremists could use
biological terrorism to further their aims.

'The professor is quite right in saying there is a potential chemical and
biological risk,' said Staffordshire Ambulance Service spokesman Bob Lee.

'We live in a world now where terrorists are increasingly resorting to these
techniques.'

The Staffordshire service has specially trained crews to cover the north and
south of the county, doing normal paramedic duties but ready to be switched to
any emergency situation including chemical leaks.

Protective suits and other equipment would be available for issue to paramedics
going to a potentially hazardous incident.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                 June 14, 2000

Double mugging terror
 Cash snatched in daylight attacks

BYLINE: By Alison Shaw

SECTION: Crime: Assault, Pg.3

LENGTH: 209 words


VIOLENT muggers struck twice within a matter of hours in Aberdeen.

A pensioner and a middle-aged man were the victims in the separate attacks which
happened yesterday.

The first saw a 73-year-old woman have her handbag and a three-figure sum of
cash snatched in Bridge of Don at 11am.

The pensioner was walking in Cottown of Balgownie when she was attacked from
behind by a man in his early to mid 20s. The woman was uninjured.

The yob was 6ft, slim, with short dark brown hair, a fair complexion and clean
shaven.

He was thought to have been wearing a white tracksuit and dirty white trainers.

The second incident happened at 7.45pm at phone boxes on Great Northern Road at
its junction with Don Street.

A 54-year-old man was robbed by three syringe -wielding thugs but escaped
injury.

He was approached by the gang who threatened him with a syringe and demanded his
money.

They got away with a two -figure sum and some of his personal belongings.

The first attacker was about 25, about 5ft 7in, of medium build with dark hair.

The second was 23-25, and was the same height and build as the first. The third
was about 21, thin, of a similar height and wearing a blue nylon jacket.

Grampian Police's robbery squad is investigating.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2000 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            June 15, 2000, Thursday

MP TELL OF TERROR KNIFE ATTACK

BYLINE: Shaun Connolly Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 307 words


PREGNANT Midland MP Julie Kirkbride today spoke of her fears for her unborn baby
as she confronted a knife-wielding intruder in her bedroom.

As police stepped-up their hunt for the burglar, the Bromsgrove MP said her
first instincts were for her baby as she was woken in the early hours of her
pounds 1 million Belgravia home by the man riffling through her things.

She said: 'I just thought about the baby and everything else, I juts pulled up
the sheets around me and started screaming. I didn't stop until he ran off.'

Reliving the moment when she woke, Miss Kirkbride said: 'It was just a movement
or maybe a shadow. I don't know what it was exactly, but it caused me to
wake-up. At 5am you are in the middle of a deep sleep so I didn't really know
what was going on.

'I sat up in bed and there he was. I had nothing on and was under the duvet. he
was carrying a knife. A very sharp knife.

Clear view

'I had a very clear view of him. He was slim, quite tall and I could see right
into his eyes.

'I didn't know what to do. I was on my own in the room. You naturally think of
your unborn child.'

Miss Kirkbride, aged 40, added: 'It really was every woman's worst nightmare. I
am just relieved I'm OK. I am sure there are lots of women who haven't been so
lucky.

'After all he didn't touch me and I am not injured or traumatised.'

Miss Kirkbride was alone in the bedroom as her husband, Tory shadow Northern
Ireland Secretary Andrew MacKay was away in Scotland.

Mr MacKay's 23 year old son Hamish was alerted by Miss Kirkbride's screaming,
but arrived in the bedroom after the intruder had fled.

The incident has raised security fears as Mr MacKay's hardline views on Ulster
make him a prime terrorist target.

Police are expected to tighten up protection for the couple following the
burglary.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       June 15, 2000, Thursday Edition 1

Terror for driver in firebomb attack

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 203 words


   A SPANISH trucker was lucky to be alive today after his lorry was firebombed
with Molotov cocktails.

The driver, in his early 40s, was asleep in the cab of the lorry parked under a
pedestrian bridge in Gateshead when the attack happened last night.

Vandals dropped a bottle filled with paraffin and stuffed with lighted papers
from the bridge onto the lorry's trailer.

The bottle exploded and the flames burned through the tarpaulin cover.

The driver slept on unaware of the danger and was woken by a passing lorry
driver. He was unhurt but shocked.

Investigating

Police are investigating the incident, which happened on the slip road leading
from Washington Services to the A1 at 8.30pm.

Before firefighters arrived, the two lorry drivers managed to unhitch the cab
and move it, saving it from damage.

Sub Officer Kevin Bracchie, based at Birtley Fire Station, said: "We could have
been looking at a really serious incident. This man could have died if he'd had
a full load or if there had been chemicals on board.

"Fortunately, the trailer was empty. The fire was really intense and if there
had been a full load, it would really have taken hold and spread to the cab as
well. "

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        June 19, 2000, Monday Edition 1

KAISER IN NEW ATTACK TERROR -;
Devil dog savages paddling pool girl

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 595 words


   A GIRL of seven was horribly mauled by a savage devil dog just three days
after it was taken off death row for a similar attack.

Chelsea Troup underwent hours of surgery as doctors fought to save her leg after
she was pounced on by 12-stone Kaiser.

The horrifying attack happened yesterday afternoon as Chelsea played in a
paddling pool.

The snarling Bull Mastiff leapt on her and shook her like a rag doll as
horrified neighbours tried to pull the crazed animal off her.

It only let go when it was hit over the back with a paving slab but by then
Chelsea had suffered bite wounds to her leg, arms, and stomach.

Kaiser was only released from police kennels three days beforehand following an
earlier attack on a lad who needed 100 stitches.

The latest attack happened as Chelsea, of Chestnut Avenue, Whitley Bay, played
with her pal Louise Harman, seven, of nearby Hotspur Avenue

They had been invited by Kaiser's owner, Carol McQueen, 38, also of Hotspur
Avenue, to play in her garden.

Agitated

Neighbour Sharon Cook, who witnessed the attack said: "The dogs were getting
splashed by the water from the pool and the hose and I could see them getting
more and more agitated.

"Chelsea was standing by the garden fence talking to Louise's mum when Kaiser
just jumped on her.

"I could see the dog with little Chelsea in its jaws just flinging her about. .

"The dog had hold of her at the top of her leg and was chucking her about like a
rag doll. Louise's parents saw the whole thing and pulled Louise inside. Then
her dad, Lee, jumped over the fence and tried to pull the dog off,.

"After about a minute, he picked up a paving slab and smashed it down on the
dog's back and only then he managed to pull the dog off .

"She wasn't even crying, she was just staring, in shock. She didn't have cuts on
her legs - there were just huge chunks taken out. She was bruised all up her
back and from where she had been thrown around."

Louise's mum Ashlea, 23, and her husband Lee, 29, said: "She is a lot worse than
the previous lad who was attacked by the dog.."

Mrs Harman said: "Lee jumped over the fence and had to attack the dog to get him
off. He hit him with a pavement slab and that's when the dog let go.

"I was pulling the girl over the fence and the owner of the dog was hanging on
to its collar and being pulled along by it."

Chelsea's dad Mark, 31, said today: "I am still in shock about what has
happened. You would give a person a second chance but you don't give a dog a
second chance. The dog should be done away with and I hope she's not going to
try and keep it."

On Thursday Kaiser was returned to owner Ms McQueen when a prosecution case at
North Shields magistrates was stopped by the Crown Prosecution Service through
lack of evidence.

Sean Young, 14, of Horton Avenue, Shiremoor, North Tyneside, was at Ms McQueen's
home in February when the dog pounced on him. He spent four days in hospital.

Supt Keith Felton of Tynemouth police area command said: "We were in
consultation with the CPS throughout the first case and we were keen to see the
successful prosecution.

"However, the case was discontinued by the CPS, and we can understand the
reasons, because witnesses declined to give evidence. We are now investigating
the circumstances surrounding the injuries to the seven-year-old girl and we
will be in touch with the CPS."

Ms McQueen, said: "Kaiser was taken away by the police yesterday afternoon. I'm
not feeling very good and I have been advised by my solicitor not to say
anything."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        June 20, 2000, Tuesday Edition 1

Savaged girl tells of her dog attack terror -;
Doctors feared they would have to amputate mauled youngster's leg

BYLINE: by James Jordan

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 420 words


   MAULED schoolgirl Chelsea Troup relived her dog attack terror for the first
time today and sobbed: "I thought I was going to die."

The eight-year-old, who is facing hours of plastic surgery on her wounds, told
how she was pounced on by a 12-stone bull mastiff as she played happily in a
paddling pool.

As revealed in last night's Chronicle the attack happened three days after the
dog called Kaiser was freed from death row after a similar attack on Sean Young,
14.

Today, surrounded by get well cards in Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary,
Chelsea said: "We were just playing when he jumped on me.

"He was snarling and biting, it was horrible, I don't like to think about it. I
was crying, but I can't remember much after that."

Wounds

Chelsea, of Chestnut Street, Whitley Bay, was playing with a pal in the back
garden of Kaiser's owner Carol McQueen's home in nearby Hotspur Street when she
was set upon.

During the attack, she was thrown around like a rag-doll and

suffered multiple puncture wounds and bruising.

Doctors feared they would have to amputate the right leg of Chelsea, a pupil at
Whitley Bay's Appletree Gardens First School. After a four-hour battle they
managed to save it.

Mum Sandra, 27, said: "I haven't slept a wink since the attack happened - the
whole thing has been a nightmare.

"I can't thank the staff here at the RVI enough for all they have done and all I
want now is my little girl to come home.

"I just cannot believe that this has happened to my baby daughter. It's a
disgrace that this dog wasn't put down after the first attack and to let him out
again is just unforgivable.

"If the authorities had done their job properly then this would never have
happened. Now my daughter is in hospital with huge chunks out of her leg."

Dad Mark, 31, said: "This has been a terrible shock and part of me still can't
believe it has happened.

"At the moment I just feel numb but we are going to make sure that this dog
never gets the opportunity to injure people again."

Kaiser's first victim, Sean, who was attacked by the dog in February, said: "I
don't think this dog should have been allowed to live. I'm still in pain from
the bites. I still remember it like it was yesterday and still have bad dreams
about it."

Ms McQueen refused to comment. The case against her was dropped at North Shields
Magistrates Court on Thursday when the Crown Prosecution Service said there was
insufficient evidence because witnesses were refusing to testify.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OUR HORROR - attacked youngster Chelsea Troup in Newcastle Royal
Victoria Infirmary with her parents Sandra and Mark where she is being treated
after being attacked by bull mastiff dog Kaiser

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        June 23, 2000, Friday Edition 1

Terror attack

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 85 words


   A HEROIN addict suffering hepatitis terrorised a security guard by spraying
him with blood from a syringe.

Paul Cunnington, 32, of Charles Street, Boldon, had the hypodermic strapped to
his arm when he went back to the Asda store after a clash with Barry Grimwood.

Cunnington first told police the syringe had contained a food dye but finally
said it was blood left over from his last heroin fix, Newcastle Crown Court
heard.

He admitted affray and was put on pro-bation for two years.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        The Times Educational Supplement

                                 June 30, 2000

Teachers in terror over attacks; News

BYLINE: KAREN MACGREGOR and HARARE

SECTION: Issue 4383, News & opinion, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 422 words



MORE THAN 2,000 teachers were assaulted and at least one was murdered in
Zimbabwe during the run-up to the nation's elections last weekend.

Government militia targeted teachers as part of their months-long campaign of
terror against all opposition supporters. The elections resulted in victory for
Robert Mugabe's Zanu-PF party, which has stayed in power since he was elected
president in 1980.

Teachers were attacked in the belief that they were promoting the opposition
Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) in classrooms and communities. Many joined
the estimated 6,500 families who had fled their homes to avoid attack, hiding in
the bush, making a run for the border of a neighbouring and less violent nation,
moving to towns or in with family or friends.

The Progressive Teachers Union of Zimbabwe said more than 9,000 teachers and 551
schools had been affected by the Mugabe-led wave of political violence, and
2,096 teachers had been assaulted. It also received reports of 12 teachers or
their wives being raped, and of 25 pupils being abducted or raped by Zanu-PF
thugs. The Zimbabwe Independent was told that government supporters were
extorting money from teachers at schools in the Mberengwa district in exchange
for their security.

The union recommended that all schools close during the week before 5.1 million
Zimbabweans went to the polls.

Teachers were targeted, a spokesperson for the Catholic Commission for
Justiceand Peace said, 'because they are educated, read the newspapers and are
community leaders. Zanu-PF cadres were going into communities and trying to
intimidate anyone who might be against the government. Silencing the educated is
an age-old and very effective tool of oppression.'

The teachers' union reported the worst areas to be Mashonaland West and East,
with high levels of political violence. 'The teaching and the learning
environment has been seriously affected. The morale of these teachers is at its
lowest ebb,' it said.

Violence against Zimbabwean teachers started in February, when they were accused
of advocating the 'no' vote to constitutional reforms proposed by Mugabe. This,
for Mugabe and his men, raised the unsettling prospect of a serious challenge to
their power, and even a loss of control if a fair election was held. Polls at
the time showed many Zimbabweans were ready to throw Mugabe out after corruption
and national economic ruin.

'More than 9,000 teachers and 551 schools were affected by the waves of
Mugabe-led political violence'

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                      Copyright 2000 TSL Education Limited

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                  July 4, 2000

Florida shark attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 100 words



TWO girls swimming off Florida were recovering today after attacks by sharks. A
3ft shark bit Danielle Shidemantle, 19, on her left thigh, then Amber
Benningfield, 13, was bitten on her left calf.

The attacks were within a few yards of each other off New Smyrna Beach.
Danielle was able to leave hospital but Amber was detained.

Issuing a warning to all swimmers in the area, Beach Patrol official Joe Wooden
said the teenagers were probably bitten by black tip or spinner sharks learning
to hunt.  Young sharks have a tendency to bite anything that moves, he added.


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2000 Manchester Evening News

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                              July 7, 2000, Friday

CREW'S TERROR OF AIR ATTACK

BYLINE: John Connor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 203 words


A STEWARDESS was "terrified" air-rage passengers on a flight to Jamaica would
punch her.

Georgina Campsey recalled how she was forced to place herself between out-of
-control British tourists as she tried to restore order.

She told Hove Crown Court in Sussex yesterday she was sworn at by drunken women
as feuding passengers squared up to each other.

The trial of five defendants heard how the flight from Gatwick was forced to
divert to Norfolk, Virginia, after the altercation at 36,000 feet.

Miss Campsey told how two men had threatened to "get" a black passenger once
they were off the plane.

She said: "I stood in between them and put my arms out on either row, asking
them to 'please sit down'.

"I felt very frightened. I was worried the aircraft would get damaged if a
window was kicked and I felt I was going to be thrown aside or punched."

Francis Coyle, 40, and Myles Connors, 36, are charged with affray and
endangering the safety of an aircraft.

Three of their companions - Angela O'Driscoll, 39, Elizabeth O'Driscoll, 34, and
19-year-old Josephine Cooper - are charged with being drunk on an aircraft.

The five defendants deny all the allegations against them and the trial
continues.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2000 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  July 7, 2000

DEFIANCE OF A MAN OF TERROR AS FEARS GROW OVER ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY IAN GALLAGHER

LENGTH: 514 words


LOYALIST terrorist Johnny Adair yesterday vowed to continue returning to
Drumcree as fears heightened over planned gun and bomb attacks on security
forces.

The former Ulster Freedom Fighters commander, whose unit is thought to have
murdered 20 victims, insisted he was doing nothing wrong.

But police believe that Adair's presence serves only to inflame the already
highly volatile situation. "I have not broken the law and I have done nothing
wrong," he said.

"I went to Drumcree in a peaceful manner, I left Drumcree in a peaceful manner.
I was at Drumcree at a bonfire. I will be back at Drumcree."

Adair, who was released from the Maze prison last September under the terms of
the Good Friday Agreement, added that he had no knowledge of the gunmen who
fired a volley of shots at Drumcree on Monday night, though he was clearly seen
laughing in the background.

Flanked by a dozen men, he appeared again on Wednesday night and trained his
binoculars on Army and police before disappearing into the crowd.

His pledge to continue attending the protests coincides with a warning from RUC
Chief Constable Sir Ronnie Flanagan that "some very evil people" on the fringes
of loyalism were planning to attack police with guns and blast bombs.

Sinn Fein's Martin McGuinness, who met residents of the nearby nationalist
Garvaghy Road yesterday, described Adair's actions as "pathetic" and urged him
to stay at home. And Shadow Northern Ireland Secretary Andrew McKay said his
presence at Drumcree was an affront to the rule of law. He added that "such
naked displays of paramilitarism" were incompatible with a commitment to peace.
Until Monday it was assumed that Adair would stay away from Drumcree. "His
presence adds a dangerous edge to the crisis," one security source admitted.

Adair and his gang had a fearsome reputation in the early Nineties. He was
eventually caught after a covert operation by the RUC. At his trial he admitted
directing terrorism and acknowledged that he had been a commander of the UFF for
nearly three years until May 1994.

Meanwhile yesterday, security was further tightened across the province
following four consecutive nights of violence which left 30 officers injured.
Police revealed that in the 24 hours up to Wednesday night there was more unrest
in Belfast than in the whole of the past year.  In one of the most shocking
incidents, a terrified pensioner was forced out of his car in the city by masked
youths who then set it alight.

Elsewhere, officers came under attack from bricks, bottles and other missiles
when they tried to recover a hijacked bus. British soldiers - deployed against
rioters in Belfast for the first time in two years - maintained a high profile
in flashpoint areas.

Meanwhile, some senior members of the Orange Order acknowledged yesterday that
the Drumcree protest was spiralling out of control. West Tyrone MP William
Thompson, a member of the Grand Lodge, said there was a danger that the Order
was being seen to "give a wink" to violence even though they publicly condemn
it.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 14, 2000

Boy, 11, savaged by bull mastiff is lucky to be alive, says his mother;
Parents fear dog 'may kill a child' after terror attack in park

BYLINE: Keith Mcleod

SECTION: Pg. 29

LENGTH: 591 words


THE mother of a schoolboy, mauled by a bull mastiff in a park, has called for
the dog to be destroyed.

Jamie Reid,11 , suffered appalling bites to his arms, ribs and back after the
dog, which was not on a leash, leapt on him as he climbed down from a treehouse.

The schoolboy athlete, escaped by breaking free after ten minutes and outrunning
the animal while friend Ryan Burns, ten, threw stones at it.

Police confirmed that a 33-year-old woman and a 34-year-old man had been
reported to the procurator fiscal in connection with the incident Last night
Jamie's mother Yvonne, 38, from Hamilton, Lanarkshire, said her son could have
been killed and called for the bull mastiff to be put down. She said: 'I
complained to the police about this dog because sooner or later it will kill a
child. It should be destroyed. At the moment it is still out there. The bite
marks are like holes.' 'I am convinced Jamie could have died. He has won medals
for running at school and I think only his general fitness saved him.

'Everyone who saw this attack has said that Jamie did nothing to provoke the
animal. I am just so glad he is still here.' Each time Jamie struggled to get
back up the tree, the dog pulled him to the ground.

Jamie, a pupil at St Anne's Primary, Hamilton, said: 'The dog would not let go.
It kept coming back. I tried to get back up the tree and it kept pulling me down
and going for me again.

'I didn't get any warning about what was going to happen. It just kept biting
me. I was very sore and very frightened. When I got away I just ran and ran. I
never used to be scared of dogs, but now I am.' Jamie was treated at Hairmyres
Hospital, East Kilbride. It is believed the dog is from the Blantyre area but
was being looked after in Hamilton by relatives of the owner who was on holiday.

It is believed a 13-year-old girl had taken the dog out without permission.

A doberman was also being looked after by the same family.

A police spokesman said: 'We have traced the owner of the dog and we are
investigating the incident.' Doreen Graham, of the Scottish Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, said she was 'appalled' by the attack.

She said: 'Honestly, a 13-year-old girl is not strong enough to cope with such a
dog. Bull mastiffs are normally very protective dogs.' A canine behaviour expert
said yesterday Jamie was lucky to have survived the onslaught.

Joyce Stuart, who helps the Scottish SPCA with problem dogs, said: 'It's
remarkable the boy survived. A bull mastiff is a hugely powerful dog that
doesn't just nip and move away like a collie. It bites hard with very powerful
jaws. Once they go in, they go all out to finish the attack.' Last night a
member of the family who were looking after the bull mastiff, named Buster, said
13-year-old Ann Thomson, who walked the dog, had been told not to.

Ann's adult sister, who refused to give her full name added: 'It has no history
of this kind of thing.' Ann said: 'When it happened I tried to help.

It was terrible. I hope Jamie is feeling a lot better.' Last night Ann Thomson's
mother Margaret, 54, said she and husband Alex, 63, were on holiday in England
at the time of the attack.

She said her adult daughters were looking after Ann and the dog. Mrs Thomson
said: 'That dog is as docile as they come. We've been told local kids were
teasing the dog the night before and I believe that.' The Thomson family said
the dog is owned by relative Alex Thomson, of Blantyre, but would not give any
more details.


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 July 19, 2000

Brutal sex attack terror for woman,28

BYLINE: By David Jones

SECTION: Crime: Sex Offence, Pg.18

LENGTH: 163 words


A WOMAN was subjected to a brutal sex attack after being pushed into an alleyway
in Trent Vale.

She was walking along London Road towards Stoke town centre in the early hours
of Sunday morning when a man grabbed her from behind.

The 28-year-old was bundled into an alleyway close to the junction with All
Saint's Road and forced to endure a serious sexual assault.

Her assailant ran off over a nearby recreation area after carrying out the
attack.

A Staffordshire police spokesman said today: It was a brutal attack and the
woman was left severly traumatised by her ordeal. Although she suffered minor
injuries she did not require hospital treatment."

Police today released a description of a man they want to question in connection
with the assault which took place just after midnight.

He is said to be white, clean shaven, late 20s or early 30s, 5ft 6in to 5ft 8in,
and short hair.  At the time of the incident he was wearing a dark jumper and
dark jeans.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2000 The Sentinel

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            July 20, 2000, Thursday

FARM POST: DOG OWNERS ARE URGED TO CURB TERROR ATTACKS ON FARMSTOCK

SECTION: Pg. 25

LENGTH: 413 words


Pet owners are being asked to behave responsibly in a bid to reduce the
thousands of unnecessary attacks on livestock by dogs.

A campaign is launched in the Midlands today aimed at highlighting the problem
and persuading the public to be more careful.

The RSPCA, National Farmers Union and National Sheep Association have teamed up
for the first time to tackle the issue.

Every year tens of thousands of livestock are killed or maimed by dogs that are
allowed to run riot near farm animals. Terrified sheep and cattle have been
chased over cliffs and into rivers, had their throats and intestines ripped out
or been caused to miscarry.

Earlier this month a 14-year-old horse died in Abbey Hulton, Stoke on Trent,
after being savaged by a pack of dogs. The horse collapsed after it was attacked
around the legs and the dogs continued to attack the horse until it died.

Last autumn Devon farmer Mr Roger Hayward was horrified to discover 110 of his
sheep suffocated and piled on top of one another in the corner of his field. It
is believed the terrified animals had been herded and chased by at least one
uncontrolled sheepdog. In neighbouring Somerset, 27 sheep belonging to farmer Mr
Anthony Salvidge were injured or killed in just one month last winter.

The RSPCA's West Central regional manager, Mr Stephen Mulholland, said:
'Livestock worrying is a serious animal welfare problem which not only puts farm
animals at risk but dogs too, which can be trampled by cattle and horses.

'People find it hard to believe their pet can be a hazard to livestock. But
whatever their temperament, dogs have a chase instinct that can be triggered by
the sight or movement of farm animals. That is why it is so important to keep
dogs on leads near livestock and under control at all times.'

The problem is not restricted to dogs out exercising.

Dogs allowed to roam free when their owners are out also cause major problems.

Mr John Thorley, NSA chief executive, said: 'Owners have a responsibility always
to keep their dogs under control. Unsupervised pets can cause untold damage to
sheep without their owners knowing a thing about it.'

Mr Bob Forster, NFU West Midlands regional director, said: 'Livestock worrying
costs the farming industry pounds 2 million per year. But far worse is the
emotional stress for farmers in seeing their animals suffer just because one
person lets their dog off the lead without thinking about the consequences.'

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 25, 2000

Road rage driver jailed over terror attack on woman

BYLINE: Peter Jones

SECTION: Pg. 29

LENGTH: 390 words


A ROAD rage motorist who left a terrified mother screaming in agony as he
knocked her over and drove over her leg in his car was jailed for six months
yesterday.

Jeffrey Morris, 39, overtook 35-year-old Ann MacDonald on a sharp bend and when
she flashed her lights he brought his car to a stop.

He then reversed his car into the front of her Ford Fiesta. When she got out to
demand details of his insurance, he ran over her and then drove away.

She was left with torn ankle ligaments she appeared in court on crutches and is
still receiving trauma counselling.

Morris had pleaded not guilty to assaulting Mrs MacDonald, from Lossiemouth,
Morayshire, but was found guilty after a two-day trial at Elgin Sheriff Court He
stared blankly ahead as Sheriff Noel McPartlin told him prison was the only
answer for his 'frightening' crimes.

Mrs MacDonald wept as Morris was sentenced to a total of six months imprisonment
and given a five-year driving ban. He was also fined GBP 500 but elected to
serve 14 days in prison rather than pay the fine.

Outside the court Mrs MacDonald condemned the sentence as too light and called
for a new law to target road-rage attacks. She sobbed: 'When people use guns to
hurt others they have their licence taken away for ever.

It should be the same with cars. The courts need the power to put these madmen
off the road for good.

'Morris should be kept in prison for five years, but he'll be out in three
months after parole. My sentence lasts forever. This has wrecked my life.'

During the trial Mrs MacDonald, a softly-spoken aromatherapist, told how
18-stone Morris had pulled up in front of her, forcing her to stop on a road
near Kinloss, Morayshire, in March this year.

She then watched in horror as the unemployed electrician reversed his F-reg
banger into her car. When she got out to inspect the damage, he gave her a
tirade of abuse. The plucky mother-of-two still demanded insurance details and
stood in front of Morris's car to note the registration.

But he drove at her, knocking her down and trapping her leg. Ignoring her
screams, he drove the car at her twice more before roaring off.

The court heard that Morris, of Beach Terrace, Hopeman, Morayshire, had served
time for violent offences. He showed no reaction as he was led away to the
cells.


LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 31, 2000, Monday

BBC'S 'TERROR' FILM ATTACKED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 61 words


THE BBC came under attack last night for planning to dramatise the life of two
IRA brothers.

Shadow Northern Ireland Secretary, Andrew McKay, launched a bid to quash the
movie which would be paid for by licence fees.

The film will chart the lives of murdered solicitor Pat Finucane and two of his
brothers, Seamus and Dermot, both convicted terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           August 2, 2000, Wednesday

TWO KILLED IN BOMB BLAST;
 OUTRAGE: AMBASSADOR NARROWLY SURVIVES INDONESIAN TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 229 words


A CAR bomb killed two people and injured dozens more in the Indonesian capital,
Jakarta, yesterday.

Moslem rebels trying to kill the Philippines ambassador were blamed for the
blast.

The booby-trapped car exploded outside ambassador Leonides Caday's car as it
neared his official residence.

Caday suffered head and hand injuries and was pulled, bleeding badly, from the
wreckage of the car. The Philippines embassy said later he was out of danger but
his chauffeur was in a critical condition, along with three other people.

The two people killed were an embassy guard and a woman street trader. Some of
the injured were badly mutilated and torn apart, witnesses said.

Debris and shrapnel were scattered for hundreds of metres around the site of the
explosion.

Several bloodied survivors walked around in a daze before emergency crews
arrived. At least 21 people were injured.

The blast was immediately linked to a Moslem rebellion in the southern
Philippines.

The Philippine government ordered all their embassies worldwide to be put on
high alert.

The Moro Islamic Liberation Front, the largest rebel group in the southern
Philippines, denied they were behind the attack.

They have been accused of carrying out a series of bomb attacks recently.

The ambassador's house is near several government offices and the homes of other
foreign diplomats.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2000 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 August 3, 2000

Mum tells of son's terror after gun attack

BYLINE: By Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 374 words


A CO Antrim mother has told how her seven-year-old son has been having
nightmares since a shotgun attack on his home.

Police believe the woman's house at Glarryford near Ballymena was attacked
because she is married to a 32-year-old Catholic man originally from Cushendall.

The 28-year-old woman, who comes from a mixed background and says she is neither
Catholic or Protestant, added that her son - who attends a Protestant primary
school in Cullybackey - was left distressed after the early morning attack on
their home.

Loyalists are being blamed for the attack last week which was followed by a
threat on Sunday that the family has two weeks to get out of the mainly loyalist
Station View estate.

The intimidation continued when a hoaxer also phoned police to say an incendiary
device was left outside the house early on Monday morning.

Recently, a brick, with the words 'All Taigs Out' written on the side, was
lobbed at the house, where the family has only been living for five months.

The woman said her son - who has been staying with his granny in Cullybackey
until the family can be rehoused - said he believed his mummy was going to be
killed.

"He screamed his eyes out and was asking why anyone would attack us as we are
not bad. He has been having nightmares about it since he went to Cullybackey and
has been saying that he believes I am going to be shot."

The shotgun attack at 1.20am last Friday left a hole in a bedroom window and a
ceiling and the empty bed in the room peppered with pellets.

The woman says it was fortunate no one was in the room at the time. She had been
sleeping in another room at the back of the house because of a fear of being
bricked.

She added: "We don't know why we have been attacked, we have done nobody any
harm, but maybe it is because we are a mixed marriage."

"We heard a loud bang and I just screamed. The pellets were all over the bed in
that room and if anyone had been in it they would have been hurt or killed. It
was a threat to kill."

A police spokesman confirmed they were investigating the shooting and said two
people in dark clothing were seen getting into a small car which sped off along
Station Road in the direction of the A26.


LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 August 4, 2000

Tight security amid fears of terrorist attacks

SECTION: Agency: AGENCY, Pg.4

LENGTH: 180 words


SECURITY for the Queen Mother's 100th birthday will be tight amid fears that
dissident Irish republican terrorists may attempt to cause disruption today.

A senior security source has warned that terrorists, believed to be responsible
for two recent bomb attacks in London, are likely to continue their campaign of
violence on mainland Britain.

It is understood that the dissident faction, the Real IRA, was to blame for the
bombs at Hammersmith Bridge and the Ealing Broadway railway line over the past
two months.

The Ealing Broadway bomb and subsequent alerts at other London stations caused
huge traffic disruption on the day of the Queen Mother's centenary pageant.

Organisers of the July 19 pageant vowed to defy terrorist attempts to disrupt
the Royal parade.

Bomb alerts spread through central London after the terrorist device was planted
near Ealing Broadway station.

Anti-terrorist police carried out at least two controlled explosions.

Pageant organisers said the alerts, which followed calls from the Dublin area,
were designed to disrupt the event.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2000 Western Morning News

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 August 8, 2000

Wasp attack terror;
'Black cloud' of 1,000 insects chases family for ten minutes

SECTION: Pg. 34

LENGTH: 467 words


A FAMILY came under attack from a swarm of more than 1,000 wasps after
disturbing a nest.

Sarah Chant, 29, picked up her two-year-old son Callum and ran for cover with
her daughter Danielle, ten, chased by a black cloud of insects.

The attack continued for ten minutes until they reached the sanctuary of home.

Miss Chant's stepfather Ray Hurricks, who was out walking with them along with
her mother Carol, tried to protect Callum when the attack began and suffered
more than 100 stings.

The rest of the family were also stung numerous times but none suffered a
serious reaction.

The attack began when one of the wheels of Callum's pushchair disturbed a nest
the size of a football as the family strolled on the banks of the Itchen at
East-leigh, near Southampton.

Mr Hurricks managed to throw a raincover over the little boy but, as the attack
continued, Miss Chant had to lift Callum out and abandon the pushchair.

'The whole thing was like something out of a horror film,' said Miss Chant, a
sales assistant.

'It was incredible. The wasps suddenly appeared out of nowhere like a black
cloud.

'I looked round and my stepfather was desperately trying to cover up Callum.
Within seconds I grabbed him and we just ran for our lives.

'We ran as hard as we could for ten minutes but they just kept coming after us.

'I stopped for a few seconds to try to brush some of the wasps off Callum.

'My mother later told me that my white T-shirt had turned black as the wasps
descended on me.

'When we got home, I took my trousers off and six wasps dropped out. We were all
stung lots of times but Ray got the worst of it. He was very brave the way he
tried to protect Callum.

'When it was happening I didn't feel the stings but it hurts a lot today.

'I was stung about 30 or 40 times but luckily the children weren't that badly
hurt.

'Callum was stung eight times while Danielle was stung about five times.'

None of the group was seriously hurt and they were all released after treatment
at the Royal Hampshire County Hospital in Winchester.

A spokesman for Eastleigh Police said today: 'Getting stung that number of times
must have been agonising but thankfully none of them has suffered any serious
harm.

'We are now warning people walking in the area that they should take care.' The
pest control firm Ridaway was called in to deal with the swarm after the attack
at around 7.30pm on Sunday evening.

Ridaway worker Martin Walker, who attended the scene, said: 'It was a pretty
substantial nest around the size of a football.

'When I arrived the pushchair was still covered in wasps.

'It looked as if one of its wheels had collapsed part of the nest and the wasps
immediately went on the defensive attacking the group of people.'


LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 8, 2000, Tuesday

CAR BOMB KILLS THREE SUSPECTED ETA TERRORISTS AS THEY PREPARE FOR ATTACK

BYLINE: Chris Gray

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 423 words


THREE SUSPECTED members of the Basque separatist group Eta were killed yesterday
when their car exploded in Bilbao, northern Spain.

Initial reports last night suggested that a car bomb exploded as the two men and
a woman travelled through the industrial area of Bolueta to mount a terrorist
attack. The national news agency Efe said one of the victims was Patxi
Rementeria, suspected chief of the Commando Vizcaya, one of Eta's most feared
units.

Bilbao is the largest city in the Basque region and has been the scene of
several attacks by Eta since it abandoned its ceasefire in December.

The three people killed in the blast had not been formally identified last night
as their bodies were badly mutilated. One was thrown 50 metres by the force of
the explosion, which happened close to three newspaper offices at about 11pm
local time. The other two were trapped in the car. Weapons were also found in
the street, apparently blasted from the car in the explosion.

The mayor of Bilbao Inaki Azkuna, said he believed the trio had targeted "some
citizen or a building" and called on political parties to overcome their
differences and find a way towards peace. Mr Azkuna, a member of the moderate
Basque Nationalist Party, said: "We have too many attacks and not enough
dialogue."

One of the last active, armed separatist groups in Western Europe, Eta called a
ceasefire in 1998 but ended the truce in December after a single, fruitless
round of peace talks with the government. The terrorist group has been blamed
for the deaths of seven people since it resumed its campaign of violence. It is
thought to have used the 14-month ceasefire to build up stocks of weapons,
including 1.5 tons of explosives, 240 grenades and 24 mines.

Last month the Spanish Prime Minister, Jose Maria Aznar promised not to give in
to the campaign after two suspected Eta gunmen shot dead the former Basque
provincial governor Juan Maria Jauregui.

His death was the seventh blamed on Eta since the ceasefire ended and provoked a
wave of protests against the terrorist group across Spain. The killing was also
condemned by Pope John Paul II.

Mr Jauregui's murder was the second killing in July, which also saw the death of
a Popular Party politician.

Eta has been linked to the deaths of about 800 people during more three decades
of armed struggle for an independent state in northern Spain and south -western
France. Yesterday's explosion takes the number of Eta members killed
accidentally by their own bombs to 28.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rementeria: Believed to be one of the victims

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 8, 2000, Tuesday

RUC THWART TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 71 words


ARMS and ammunition seized near Belfast are believed to be linked to dissident
republican terrorists, the Real IRA.

The RUC arrested one man after a security operation on the M1 motorway.

Officers found detonators, ammunition, a sub-machine gun and a sawn-off shotgun
in a Vauxhall Cavalier car heading towards Belfast on Sunday.

The RUC believe the terrorists were planning an imminent attack in Belfast.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           August 9, 2000, Wednesday

TWO HELD OVER MOSCOW TERROR BOMBING DEATHS;
 RUSSIANS BLAME SEPARATISTS FOR TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Mail Foreign Desk

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 535 words


TWO men from the Caucasus region were arrested today and were being questioned
about the bomb blast that ripped through one of Moscow's busiest areas, killing
seven people and injuring scores of others.

The Federal Security Service, the main domestic intelligence agency which was
heading the investigation, said the suspects fitted descriptions of two men
spotted moments before the bomb exploded. A third suspect was being sought.

'We are not ruling out that they were behind this terrorist act,' said Federal
Security Service investigator Vladimir Pronichev.

Police stepped up security at underground stations and other public places
around the Russian capital as worried Muscovites speculated that the city faces
a new bombing campaign less than a year after a series of attacks.

Police said last night's bomb blast in a Pushkin Square underpass left seven
dead and 93 others injured, many of them seriously.

Hospital officials said that 11 of the injured were in serious condition.

Emergency officials said two Americans were among those injured in the blast,
but had no other details.

Blame for the attack centred on Chechen rebels fighting for independence for
their republic in southern Russia. But Chechen rebel leaders denied their forces
were responsible for the attack and police said nobody had claimed
responsibility for the incident.

The security service said one of the two detained suspects was from Chechnya and
the other from the neighbouring region of Dagestan.

POLICE and riot troops swept public spaces across Moscow and checked the
documents of all visitors after a bomb ripped through a busy underground
walkway, killing eight people.

The blast fuelled fears of a new terrorist bombing campaign. Officials suspect
Chechen rebels, who were blamed for a series of apartment blasts last year that
killed 300 people and helped lead to the current war in Chechnya.

No one claimed responsibility for the blast yesterday at Pushkin Square, one of
Moscow's busiest junctures and near the Kremlin. There was no immediate response
from the Chechen rebel command.

President Vladimir Putin ordered police and security agents on alert around the
country. Interior Ministry troops blocked highways leading into Moscow overnight
and riot police patrolled subway and train stations and city squares.

'We should stop speaking about freedom of movement ... We should realise we are
living in the capital of a warring country,' Alexander Muzikantsky, a Moscow
city official, declared.

Eight people were killed and 53 injured in the blast at the start of the evening
rush hour, said Emergencies Minister Sergei Shoigu.

The Interior Ministry released descriptions of two suspects, both men in their
late 20s with dark skin and 'apparently from the Caucasus region,' Russian
television reports said. Chechnya is in the Caucasus.

Moscow Mayor Yuri Luzhkov said the suspects apparently approached a kiosk in the
passageway and tried to buy something with dollars, but the vendor would not
accept them. The suspects then said they would go exchange the money for
roubles, and left their bag behind.

'Almost right then, the bag exploded,' Luzhkov said.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HELPING HAND: A rescue service officer aids an injured woman

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 11, 2000

RUSSIA ATTACK DIANA'S FAVOURITE CHARITY FOR TERRORISM

LENGTH: 285 words


PRINCESS Diana's favourite anti-landmine charity has been accused of espionage
and terrorism in Chechnya.

The former KGB yesterday denounced the Halo Trust for "conducting intelligence
and subversive activities" in the war-torn southern republic. Russia's security
service, now called the FSB, singled out Charlie Emms, the charity worker
befriended by Diana when she visited an Angolan minefield.

General Alexander Zdanovich, a spokesman for the FSB, claimed the Halo Trust
"had first come to the attention of the security services in Chechnya in 1998
and that instead of training people how to defuse mines had taught rebels to lay
mines and bombs, causing numerous casualties among the Russian forces."

The FSB said it had found 15 Halo Trust workers inside Chechnya last November
when searching for rebels, adding: "The leader, Matthew Middlemiss, is a staff
military spy."

The director of the non-profit making trust, Gary Willoughby said: "We've
complained to the Foreign Office. This is a complete and utter smear."

The Halo Trust reluctantly withdrew its volunteer mine-clearance experts from
the besieged region last December as it had become too dangerous.

Mr Emms, a former member of the British army tank regiment, had left the region
a year earlier. He is no longer working for the Halo Trust.

Another ex-member of the British army, Nicholas Nobbs, was also named by the
Russians but he too had left the charity several months before it pulled out of
Chechnya. Zimbabwean Thomas Dibb, also identified by the FSB, is still with the
Halo Trust.Willoughby said Middlemiss had worked for the Halo Trust briefly but
left in 1996. "He's never been to Chechnya," he added.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 11, 2000, Friday

Spain braced for more attacks by Eta terrorists

BYLINE: Giles Tremlett in Madrid

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 893 words


THE Basque Government gave warning yesterday that Eta, the region's terrorist
movement, was stronger than ever and would step up its attacks after the worst
week of separatist violence for a decade.

Police officers in Spain's northern Basque Country and elsewhere had their leave
cancelled as security was tightened, particularly in the tourist areas of the
Costa del Sol and Costa Blanca. In the latest incident in the region, two
tourist hotels in the Costa Brava resort of Lloret de Mar, northeast Spain, were
evacuated and searched for bombs after telephoned anonymous threats.

"Eta is stronger than it has ever been," Javier Balza, the semi-autonomous
regional Basque Government's Interior Minister, said after a week of violence
that has claimed six lives and injured 11 people. He predicted that Eta would
try to maintain the intensity of its campaign through the summer, possibly all
year.

The Spanish Government admitted yesterday that Eta had an active service unit
and well-developed infrastructure in the capital, Madrid. "It is clear that they
have a solid apparatus established in the capital," the city's civil governor,
Francisco Javier Ansuategui, said.

His comments came as Eta's supporters in the Basque Country embarked on a "day
of action" to mark the deaths of four Eta members blown up earlier this week by
their own bomb. Early yesterday they firebombed a police officer's home, four
buses and an office belonging to the moderate Basque Nationalist Party, which
runs the regional government.

Police were expecting further street disturbances and vandalism. Eta supporters
and members of mainstream democratic parties had to be separated by police at a
series of demonstrations across the Basque Country during the day.

"Murderers! Murderers!" a crowd outside Pamplona's city hall shouted when
members of Euskal Herritarrok, the separatists' political front, tried to spoil
an anti-Eta demonstration. Police arrested Juan Kruz, a member of Euskal
Herritarrok's leadership, during the protest.

Similar scenes took place during a peace protest outside the city hall in the
Basque city of San Sebastian. They coincided with the funeral of Eta's latest
victim, Sub-Lieutenant Francisco Casanova, which was attended by Government
ministers.

Lieutenant Casanova, who served in an Army mountain warfare unit, was killed on
Wednesday by three pistol shots fired into his car by a gunman near Pamplona. It
was the fourteenth Eta attack in a month. Lieutenant Casanova was the ninth
person to be killed by Eta this year, which could be the bloodiest since 1991.

Police confirmed that the explosives used in recent attacks, including the
killing on Tuesday of the Basque businessman Jose Maria Korta and a bomb that
injured 11 people in Madrid on Wednesday, came from a haul of eight tonnes
stolen from a Brittany mine last year. Eta is understood to have used less than
a quarter of the explosives.

A magistrate in the Basque city of Bilbao was yesterday interviewing relatives
of the four Eta members killed when the bomb they were transporting blew up in
their car on Tuesday. Although the court did not make its findings official,
Spanish newspapers named the four men as Patxi Rementeria, Ekain Ruiz, Urko
Gerrikagoitia and Zigor Aranbarri. They were said to have been involved in a
series of recent killings in the Basque Country and in Malaga, capital of the
Costa del Sol.

Jaime Mayor Oreja, the Spanish Interior Minister, who briefed Jose Maria Aznar,
the Prime Minister, on the latest wave of attacks at his holiday home in
Oropesa, eastern Spain, called for calm. "We should not allow ourselves to be
infected by Eta's own sense of desperation," he said. Leaders of Spain's
opposition Socialist Party, who met Interior Ministry officials, pledged to
maintain a "united front" against Eta.

Senor Aznar recently promised that Eta had "a big surprise" waiting for it. He
has pledged not to talk to Eta until it promises to stop its 30-year campaign of
violence. Representatives of his Government held one tentative meeting with the
group last year while Eta maintained a unilateral ceasefire, which it broke off
after 14 months in December.

Senor Mayor Oreja has claimed that Eta used the period to reorganise, recruit
and increase its stock of arms and explosives with buying forays in the former
Yugoslav countries and through robberies.

BLOODY TRAIL OF BASQUE AMBITION. Madrid: Eta wants a separate, independent
Basque state formed from four northern Spanish provinces and three provinces in
southwest France. The officially recognised region of the Basque Country, one of
Spain's 17 semi-autonomous regions, is made up of Alava, Viscaya and Guipuzcoa.
Eta also considers the region of Navarra to be Basque. In France it claims the
provinces of Labourd, Soule and Basse Navarre. Eta has hinted that it would down
arms if "a process of self-determination", presumed to mean a referendum on
independence, took place in the Basque Country. Jose Maria Aznar, the Prime
Minister, who survived a 1995 car-bomb attack, is not prepared to discuss such
matters unless Eta calls a definitive halt to the killing. Eta started its
campaign of violence in 1968, when all forms of separatism were being brutally
repressed by General Franco. It has killed 800 people.

Leading article, page 21


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      August 12, 2000, Saturday Edition 1

10 years jail for terror attack man

BYLINE: by Garry Willey

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 337 words


   A SINISTER stranger who launched at terror attack after stalking a teenage
girl from a metro train has been jailed for ten years.

Paul Addison followed Amie Mullen when she left her friends and got off a late
night train alone at Chichester in South Shields.

He grabbed her from behind, covered her eyes, and began dragging her "like a rag
doll" by her hair towards a dark alley.

Screamed

Panic stricken Amie - only 200 yards from home - fought frantically and screamed
for help, Newcastle Crown Court heard.

And although they feared for their own safety because of the violence they were
seeing, a couple passing by courageously came to her aid.

William and Kathleen Hedley, in their 50s, shouted at Addison who tried to
pretend Amie was his girlfriend. But as they bravely stood their ground a
motorist stopped to help and Addison was held until police arrived.

The 37-year-old former warehouseman from Simonside Hall, South Shields, admitted
assault and false imprisonment. He also admitted attacking a home owner during
an earlier break-in together with a burglary at a friend's house. Amie was taken
to hospital for treatment.

Passing sentence, Judge Gerard Harkins told Addison: "The totality of this
offending means you answer for very grave offences and I am satisfied a sentence
of general deterrence and example is necessary."

Andrew Walker, defending, said Addison's life had spiralled into alcoholism and
depression when he lost his job and his parents became ill.

Scarred

After the hearing, Amie's parents Joan, 45, and Bob, 50, praised the jail
sentence, thanked the Hedley's, and told how their daughter was still struggling
to get over her ordeal which happened in February.

"She is scarred for life on her arm and she's frightened to go out," Mrs Mullen
said.

Mr Mullen added: "Addison must be dangerous to do what he did and we are very
pleased he got a long sentence.

"We are very grateful to the couple that stopped him and very pleased they were
there."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SINISTER - Paul Addison dragged girl towards dark alley "like a rag
doll"

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            August 14, 2000, Monday

OAP TELLS OF TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 62 words


AN OAP who fought off a mugger told of her terror yesterday.

The 76-year-old gran, who lives alone, said she was frightened to leave home in
case she met the man again.

The woman, who asked for her identity to be kept secret, was visiting a friend
at Aberdeen Royal Infirmary on Friday when the attack took place.

She said: "The whole thing has left me shaken up."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2000 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                August 15, 2000

Mad Dog' escapes terror bomb attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 242 words


A LEADING loyalist survived a murder attempt early today when a pipe bomb
exploded on his car.

Johnny Mad Dog'' Adair, former Ulster Freedom Fighters commander, escaped with
minor cuts and bruising in the attack, said John White of the group's political
wing, the Ulster Democratic Party. The attack happened on Beechpark Street in
the Protestant side of the Oldpark district in north Belfast at 12.30am.

Mr Adair had just parked his car and was about to talk to a group of loyalists
when his attackers drove up alongside him and threw the device, shattering the
windscreen.  Mr White said: He's very, very lucky to be alive.''

Army bomb disposal experts later recovered the remains of a pipe bomb.  Mr White
said: If that device had landed inside the car, there's no doubt everyone inside
would have been killed.''

Mr Adair has survived numerous attempts on his life and was the IRA's intended
target when it bombed Frizzel's fish shop on the Shankill Road in Belfast in
1993, killing nine Protestants and one of the bombers.  He was jailed for
directing terrorism but was released from prison early under the terms of the
Good Friday Agreement.

Mr White added: I think this attempt on Mr Adair's life was by republicans
trying to provoke reaction from loyalists and create instability and in order to
gain more concessions in their quest to undermine our Britishness and bring
about a united Ireland.''


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2000 Manchester Evening News

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 15, 2000, Tuesday

MOTOR ATTACK TERROR;
 BUS DRIVER AIMS FOR EX

BYLINE: Heather Ramsay

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 253 words


A JILTED bus driver twice tried to mow down his former lover before forcing his
way into her flat and threatening to commit suicide.

Gutted Stephen Gallagher, 32, snapped after Nicola Thomson ended their
relationship.

He drove on the wrong side of the road near a school as he raced towards her at
high speed.

Gallagher also swerved and skidded, forcing other cars to take evasive action to
avoid an accident.

Perth Sheriff Court heard frantic Nicola, 32, was twice forced to dive out of
his way as he tried to run her over.

Gallagher, of Perth, admitted driving dangerously in the town in May this year.

He also admitted failing to provide a breath test and details to the police when
he was arrested.

It was said he was initially released on bail after the motoring offence but
then went round to Nicola's flat and forced his way in. He had been drinking and
had taken valium.

He slashed himself with broken glass before threatening to leap out of a second
floor window.

The court heard Gallagher had been ordered not to approach his former lover but
had received a letter from her asking to meet him.

Solicitor David Holmes said the couple had been reunited but had fallen out
again at a party.

He said his client had been away from his job as a bus driver with stress at the
time of the incidents and had already spent two months in jail on remand.

Reports were ordered by the Sheriff and Gallagher was remanded in custody.

He will be sentenced later this month.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                August 16, 2000

Families living in terror as homes are attacked

BYLINE: Maureen Coleman

LENGTH: 536 words


A LARNE couple today said they are planning to leave their home after it was one
of eight homes targeted in overnight attacks in the east Antrim area.

The couple, a Catholic and Protestant, were asleep in the bedroom of their
Cairngorn Drive home at 1.30am when a paving slab was hurled through the living
room window.

Neither was injured in the attack but they were badly shaken by their ordeal.

The 25-year-old woman, who did not wish to be named, said she was frightened for
her life.

She said her 34-year-old boyfriend had been living at the flat for some time and
that she had recently moved in with him.

But following the attack, she said, they were now planning to leave.

"We were woken from a deep sleep around 1.30am by a huge crashing sound," she
said.

"I was too frightened to go into the living room to see what had happened
because I thought it might have been a petrol bomb."

A chunk of paving stone had been thrown at the window, smashing it and
scattering glass all over the living room furniture and carpet.

The woman said: "I know we should count ourselves lucky that it wasn't anything
worse than a paving stone, but I'm too afraid to live here now.

"We were pretty scared around the Twelfth because we thought something might
happen then but it didn't. Now this.

"The only reason I can think that we were singled out is because we are a mixed
couple.

"I've grown up in Larne and don't want to leave the town but we're not staying
in this flat now."

The flat was one of five homes to be attacked in Larne overnight.

Elsewhere in the town, two windows were broken in a house at Kintyre Road.

Paint was thrown at the house causing damage to rooms both upstairs and
downstairs.

Shortly before 3am two windows were broken at a house Argyll View.

And at approximately 3am a window was broken at a house in Garron Walk and four
windows were broken in a house at Fanad Walk.

Police investigating the attacks recovered a number of bottles containing paint
in the area of Doric Drive and Hampton Crescent. The items have been sent away
for forensic examination.

Meanwhile, in Carrickfergus three houses also came under attack.

At Copeland Road in the town bricks and paint were thrown at a house shortly
before 10.30pm

Considerable paint damage was caused to the front of the house and the front
porch and door were damaged by bricks.

A woman and her four children were in the living room at the time of the attack.

Her husband, who did not wish to be named, said: "I got a phone call to my work
last night from my wife who was absolutely terrified.

"She was hiding in the living room with our children because she was afraid they
were going to come back.

"We are a Protestant family but we choose to send our children to an integrated
school, that is the only reason I can think why we were targeted."

A house at Glebe Walk was also attacked with paint and stones and in the
Northlands area a man was struck by a rock which was thrown through the window
of his living room.

A bottle containing paint was also thrown through the window causing damage to
the room.

Police are investigating all the attacks.


LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                August 18, 2000

Bus drivers' threat over terror attacks

SECTION: News: EDUCATION, Pg.5

LENGTH: 252 words


BUS drivers have threatened to withdraw a night-time service in Gloucester after
their vehicles were attacked by unruly youngsters.

And they have asked Quedgeley residents to help them catch the culprits who are
threatening the safety of their passengers and staff.

Drivers say youngsters in the St James, School Lane and Field Court Drive areas
have been:

- Playing chicken by running in front of buses

- Placing obstacles such as stone blocks and wood across the road

- Throwing missiles at buses.

The most serious incident occurred on Wednesday night, when the front windscreen
of a bus was smashed by a brick. The driver also had a knife pulled on him by a
youth who ordered him to drive to School Lane.

Jeopardy

No-one was hurt, but bus company chiefs said the incident could have had
disastrous consequences.

Operations director Phil Stockley said: "These youngsters are putting the safety
of our passengers and staff in jeopardy.

"We appeal to the local community in Quedgeley to work with us and the police to
identify the persons responsible and help us to eliminate the problem before
someone gets injured.

"The evening bus service is under threat of withdrawal unless we can bring the
situation under control."

Sgt Richard Boyles said police had already traced the culprits of one incident
in Quedgeley and were investigating reports of others.

He said: "We are aware that there have been a couple of incidents in the area
and we are looking into them."

- Comment: Page 11

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2000 The Gloucester Citizen

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            August 27, 2000, Sunday

BRIT SURVIVES TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 67 words


A BRITISH man saw his girlfriend and her son bludgeoned to death in front of him
in a horrific attack by bandits.

Martin Young, 32, from Hampshire, suffered serious head wounds in the frenzied
onslaught which happened on a trekking tour of northern India.

His girlfriend and her 14-year-old son - who have not been named - were hit with
wooden clubs and their bodies thrown into a gorge.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            August 28, 2000, Monday

ARMY DEFUSES TERRORIST BOMBS;
 CHANCE DISCOVERY RAISES SPECTRE OF TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Dave Higgens And Nick Allen Special Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 436 words


Eight highly sophisticated bombs found hidden in woods have been made safe,
police said yesterday.

A team of six Army bomb disposal experts worked for almost 48 hours on the
explosives found by a man walking his dog at Eynsham Hall, near Witney,
Oxfordshire, on Friday afternoon.

A Thames Valley police spokesman said: "All eight devices have now been made
safe. The devices were of an extremely sophisticated nature and they will all
now be taken to a laboratory for detailed forensic tests."

The spokesman praised the disposal experts for their "highly professional manner
under very stressful and difficult circumstances".

Specialist teams from Thames Valley police began to search surrounding fields
and wooded areas. Detectives were also carrying out house-to-house inquiries.

The police spokesman said they were also pursuing several leads following calls
to an incident room from members of the public.

But he added: "It's still far too early to speculate as to which person or
organisation are responsible for hiding the devices in the woodland."

Det Supt John Donlon said he hoped the chance find had thwarted a terrorist
bombing campaign.

"These devices are, in the opinion of our experts, extremely sophisticated and
extremely dangerous. They would appear to be designed to be victim- activated.

"We want to make members of the public aware of how dangerous these devices are
and ask that anybody who finds anything similar to these bottle devices contact
the police on 999 immediately."

Det Supt Donlon, who is leading the investigation, said detectives were looking
at the possibility that the devices were part of a racist plot to disrupt
London's Notting Hill Carnival, which ends today.

They are also looking at links with animal rights activists but he stressed
there were many avenues of inquiry and he was keeping an open mind.

He said: "At this time, we are keeping an open mind as to who may have hidden
these devices and we are not linking them to any particular organisation.

"There would appear to be some form of mechanism attached to some of the devices
which may or may not be a timing mechanism, but it is too early to tell."

The devices were contained in clear plastic water bottles with three kilograms
of brass nuts packed into the bottom.

They were so sophisticated that the bombs could have been set to operate by
remote control and featured an "anti-handling" mechanism.

Thames Valley Police was linking the discovery to an identical device which was
found on a stone wall at Syreford, near Cheltenham, last Sunday, he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Deadly discovery: Det Supt John Donlon holds components used to make
the bombs.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                August 29, 2000

Terror at stars' club as gunman attacks doormen;
Six arrested after fight leads to shooting

BYLINE: Peter Rose

SECTION: Pg. 30

LENGTH: 424 words



A GUNMAN brought terror to a country club yesterday when he shot two doormen.

Customers at the Epping Forest Country Club in Essex, which is frequented by
celebrities and football stars, dived for cover as shots rang out.

One victim suffered a stomach wound and the other a leg injury. They were taken
to hospital for emergency surgery.

Seven thousand people were celebrating the Bank Holiday weekend at the complex,
which comprises three clubs, when trouble flared just after 3am.

Doormen first threw out a large group after a fight broke out on the dance floor
at the Atlantis club. Outside, the fighting continued and when the doormen tried
to break it up, they were shot.

Last night four men and two women who were arrested at the scene were being
questioned at police stations in Essex.

Police sealed off the site and questioned other club-goers as forensic officers
examined the scene. A spokes-

man for Essex police said: 'Seven thousand people were at the club and many had
left by the time police arrived.

'We would urge anyone who was at the club but has not spoken to police to get in
touch.

'And although this is a fairly rural area we would like to hear from anyone who
saw a car leaving the scene at speed or who may have heard something outside the
club which may be relevant.' Detectives have the names of more than 50 witnesses
to interview about the shooting.

They are trying to find out what caused the original fracas inside the club.

They believe

the doormen were shot with a handgun but no weapon has been found.

No one was available for comment at the club.

The complex is one of the most popular nightspots in the area. It attracts
customers from London and the South and is often visited by footballers from
nearby Tottenham Hotspur and West Ham United clubs.

It has featured in a number of television programmes including one on so-called
'Essex Girls'.

Last year police launched a murder inquiry after Darren Pearman, 27, of Waltham
Abbey,

was stabbed to death at the club. No one has been arrested.

In 1995 former EastEnders star Sid Owen was found not guilty of two charges of
wounding at the club.

Owen, who played Ricky Butcher in the BBC soap for seven years, appeared at
Snares-brook Crown Court in East London after estate agent Mark Falshaw was cut
on the head by a glass he was holding.

Falshaw claimed that Owen deliberately went for him with the glass. Owen said
Falshaw was drunk and offensive and had tried to head-butt him.


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 30, 2000, Wednesday

POLICE CONDEMN 'URBAN TERRORISTS' FOR BOMB ATTACKS ON WORKERS AT ANIMAL -TESTING
CENTRE

BYLINE: Ian Burrell Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 549 words


POLICE ARE blaming "urban terrorists" for planting fire-bombs on Monday under
cars outside the homes of workers at a company that uses animals for scientific
research.

The latest attacks mark an alarming extension of a three-year campaign by animal
rights activists to close the company, Huntingdon Life Sciences (HLS), in
Cambridgeshire.

Chief Superintendent David Auton of Cambridgeshire police told a press
conference yesterday that, if the violence continued, detectives might soon be
launching a murder investigation. "These are not people who are protesting about
animals. This is urban terrorism and I would urge anyone who knows anything at
all that might help to come forward," he said.

Police said that early on Monday five cars were set on fire with petrol bombs,
in Godmanchester near Huntingdon. No one was hurt but two of the cars were
destroyed and the others were badly damaged. One family had to be rescued from
their house through a back door and a woman, who is seven months pregnant,
needed treatment for shock.

Ch Supt Auton said: "It's one thing having to go to work and find people are
demonstrating outside your place of work, and having to be shouted at as you
drive in. It's a totally different set-up when you are in fear of having your
homes, property and families targeted."

Scientists said yesterday that the continuing violence was threatening the
future of life-saving medical research in this country.

Bill Fullagar, the president of the Association of the British Pharmaceutical
Industry, said: "Animal welfare is important, but the fact is that it is
currently impossible to develop a new medicine without some research in animals.
No computer has yet been developed that can simulate the intricate working of
the brain, heart, liver, kidneys etc, let alone their interactions."

Huntingdon Life Sciences has been a target of demonstrations for the past three
years after a television documentary featured film, taken secretly, of animal
experiments done at the site.

Two employees were subsequently sacked and prosecuted.

Since the programme, employees, former employees and shareholders of the company
have been on the receiving end of hate mail, demonstrations and malicious
telephone calls. Cambridgeshire police has 42 officers working full -time on the
case, which so far has cost the force pounds 1m.

Experts were examining a sixth incendiary device that failed to go off
yesterday. Police said the firebombs were "incredibly volatile" and "very
dangerous to touch".

Officers are looking at the possibility of links with earlier attacks on cars of
HLS employees or shareholders outside their homes in Sawtry, Cambridgeshire,
last May.

A spokesman for Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty, an animal rights group
campaigning for the closure of the plant, said he could "understand the
feelings" of those responsible for the violence.

He said: "Ours is a peaceful, non-violent campaign. Causing damage to property
is not our chosen method of campaigning. But we can understand the feelings of
frustration and anger which may prompt an action like this.

"In our view, causing damage to property is hardly comparable to the extreme
violence inflicted upon animals inside Huntingdon Life Sciences every day."

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A campaigner and her dog are surrounded by police at a demonstration
for the closure of Huntingdon Life Sciences Peter Macdiarmid; ; Cars that were
firebombed outside the homes of company workers this weekend

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               September 4, 2000

Man tells of racist attack terror

BYLINE: By Smyth Harper

LENGTH: 314 words


AN ASIAN man who was the victim of a vicious racist attack in Belfast, today
told how he has had to abandon his home for fear of being killed.

Amir Hossain (26) was beaten by a 12-strong gang of thugs and had every window
of his house on Tavanagh Street, off the Donegall Road, smashed on Friday,
August 5, after coming home from work.

He fled in terror, fearing he would be killed, and has had to take refuge in a
room above his brother's Indian restaurant.

"I just want to know why they have done this to me," he said.

"I have done nothing wrong. I just want to live my life and work. What have I
done to deserve this?"

His car was also trashed - taking away his livelihood as a taxi driver.

"I always kept my car beautiful. You have to when you are a taxi driver. But now
it is destroyed as well. I have no money and no home."

A friend of Mr Hossain who had been living with him and suffers from depression
was also injured in the attack.

Mr Hossain was married earlier this year in his home country of Bangladesh. His
wife travelled from Bangladesh just two months ago.

"I am so glad I have my family around me because I don't know what she would
have done," he added.

Mr Hossain is sure of his attackers' motives.

"They shouted at me, 'We are going to kill you, you Paki b.....d'. I am sure
they meant it. If I had not run away I am sure I would not be sitting here
talking to you. I would be dead.

"Some of the women in the group even called out for them to stop."

Mr Hossain has lived in Northern Ireland for eight years and is a British
citizen.

Police at Donegall Pass confirmed they were investigating the incident.

Patrick Yu, executive director at the Northern Ireland Council for Ethnic
Minorities, said new laws needed to be introduced to give police and local
authorities more powers against race attacks.


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton

                               September 4, 2000

Hidden terrorism of homophobic attacks

BYLINE: Rebecca Drought (author email rebecca.drought@argus-btn.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 845 words

DATELINE: brighton__hove



A gay man has received a brutal beating because of his sexuality. But, according
to gay and lesbian leaders, such attacks happen every two or three weeks and
most go unreported.

Sussex Police and the Lesbian and Gay Community Safety Forum are urging victims
to come forward to help them tackle the problem. Rebecca Drought reports.

Ricardo Saroyan-James was kicked unconscious because he is gay.

His attacker told him so.

The vicious assault has left him with a broken nose, chipped teeth and needing
26 stitches to cuts on his head.

But for Paul Martin, leader of the Brighton-based group Diversity Alliance,
which has campaigned to end homophobic bullying, the saddest thing about the
incident was that he was not surprised by what happened.

He said: "It is shocking that someone can go up to another person and for no
reason, not even following an argument, kick them to the ground.  But this kind
of attack happens every two or three weeks and so is no longer surprising.

"These attackers are members of someone's family, they are someone's work
colleagues, drinking friends. They are not aliens who came down from outer
space, attacked and went away again and they need to be challenged, even when
they tell a homo-phobic joke in the pub.

"Although the lesbian and gay community is working hard to try and stop
homophobia, until the community at large takes on board that it is wrong nothing
is going to change."

Last October, the Terrence Higgins Trust launched an anti-homo-phobia campaign
in Brighton and Hove called It's Prejudice That's Queer.

Billboard adverts, bus posters and leaflets en-dorsed by famous people like
footballer Ian Wright were used to question homophobic views. The campaign was
aimed at young men and backed up by workshops for teachers and youth workers.

Mr Martin said: "Research and experience has shown that people's views on
lesbians and gay men are formed in primary school and that's where we need to be
working on targeting and challenging attitudes."

But the situation is little improved.

A third of gay people have experienced harassment while one in three gay men and
one in four lesbians has experienced violence.

The Lesbian and Gay Community Safety Forum is currently running a campaign, to
encourage people to report homophobic attacks to the police.

Responses to its Count Me In questionnaire, on perceived safety within the
community, are still flooding in. The picture is one of a community which feels
homophobic abuse and even violence is part of life as a lesbian or gay man.

After a vicious assault when two gay men were attacked with a spanner in April,
Phil Carvosso, a financial adviser and active member of the Gay Business
Association, threatened to set up a vigilante group called the Pink Berets to
patrol the streets and protect the gay and lesbian community.

Brighton and Hove councillor Paul Elgood said: "It was an appalling attack on Mr
Saroyan-James and extremely concerning. It was unprovoked and there seemed no
reason for it but to cause harm to another person, which is unacceptable in any
community."

He said that he had worked hard to encourage more initiatives from Sussex Police
but this attack showed still more needs to be done.

"The gay and lesbian community in St James's Street village is loud and proud
which is a good thing but there needs to be more visible policing in the area to
protect people."

Sussex Police have been working with the lesbian and gay community in Brighton
and Hove in an attempt to break down the perceived barriers which prevent gays
and lesbians coming to them for help.

Earlier this week it was announced that, despite Home Office guidelines which
mean an assault on a lesbian or gay man would only be recorded as an assault
without any reference to the motive, Sussex Police are to begin recording
homophobic incidents separately.

They have introduced anonymous reporting forms which officers hope will serve a
dual purpose of protecting the victim's identity but letting police know that a
crime has taken place.

Superintendent Andy Bliss said: "The resulting data from victims will enable us
to target offenders."

Police must have the consent of the victim before they can record a crime as
homophobic.

James Leward, chair of the Brighton and Hove Lesbian and Gay Community Safety
Forum, has welcomed this move but has warned that a change in people's attitudes
towards the police will take time.

"People are just beginning to become more confident about reporting attacks but
many people are uncomfortable going to the police. It is a two-way thing and
people have to report crimes for the police to be able to do something about
them."

Victims of homophobia can contact the Gay and Lesbian Switchboard anonymously on
01273 204050.


LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2000 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               September 4, 2000

Bridge gets CCTV to end terrorist bomb attacks

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 320 words

DATELINE: Richmond



Twenty high-tech CCTV cameras have been installed at various points along the
bridge to ensure that every aspect will be captured on film.


The cameras, costing GBP 50,000, will be linked to Scotland Yard and they will
also feed live pictures to Hammersmith and Fulham Town Hall, which will be
monitored round the clock.


They have been installed as engineers work to repair the damage caused by a
terrorist bomb in June. It was the second attack on the bridge in four years.


A device packed with 3kg of explosives was attached to a girder underneath the
bridge and was located near an electricity sub station.


Police received no warning before the device exploded at 4.30am on June 1 on the
Barnes side of the bridge, shattering the windows of nearby houses.


The previous attack in 1996 was planted close to St Paul's School in Lonsdale
Road, Barnes. It caused extensive damage to the structure of the bridge, which
remained closed to all traffic, except buses, for three years. It finally
reopened in December.


A spokesman for Hammersmith and Fulham Council said the cameras had been
installed following advice from anti-terrorist officers on measures to improve
security on the bridge.


She said: "We have been involved in ongoing discussions with the terrorist squad
on ways to improve security on the bridge since the first attack. It is a costly
process and we wanted to get it right."


The bridge remains closed as work continues to complete repairs. It was expected
to open in August but the date has now been set back to mid September,
frustrating residents.


Barnes councillor Katie Gent welcomed the news that the bridge would be fitted
with extra security cameras.


But she was disappointed the reopening had been delayed and said she would be
pressing Hammersmith and Fulham Council to complete the repairs as soon as
possible.



LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2000 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 6, 2000, Wednesday

ATTACK TERROR LINK RULED OUT

BYLINE: Nicola Tallant

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 116 words


GARDAI last night insisted that an attack on two men shot in the ankles was not
carried out by paramilitaries.

The men were attacked outside a pub in the Neilstown suburb of Dublin after 10pm
on Monday. Last night Fine Gael Leader John Bruton demanded Commissioner Pat
Byrne make a full statement on the matter.

He said: "The form of shooting used clearly indicates that deterrence rather
than death was the motive. The method seems similar to that used by
paramilitaries.

"It would be a matter of great worry if paramilitary shootings, still being
politically tolerated in Northern Ireland, even though a clear breach of the
ceasefires, are spreading to this jurisdiction."

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                               September 6, 2000

Police quiz man about terror attack on mother

SECTION: Crime: Attacks, Pg.5

LENGTH: 160 words


POLICE have arrested a man in connection with an assault on a mother out with
her baby in Stafford.

The man, who lives in the town, was questioned by detectives and released on
police bail pending further inquiries.

Detective Constable Gerry Fernyhough, of Stafford CID, said further arrests were
expected to be made.

The 25-year-old mother was attacked as she pushed her baby in a pram along
Hesketh Road last Thursday.

She was set upon by three men who threw her face down on the ground and held her
hands behind her back.

She was then searched and threatened with a kitchen knife during the terrifying
ordeal.

When she tried to break free she was punched in the face and the men eventually
fled empty-handed after finding she had no money on her.

DC Fernyhough said: "A local man has been arrested, questioned and released on
police bail pending further inquiries. As the result of information we have
received there may be more arrests."

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2000 The Sentinel

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                               September 6, 2000

holidaymakers' flight of terror
 Airline attacked for playing down plane flame nightmare

BYLINE: By David Stoakes

SECTION: Transport: AIR, Pg.1

LENGTH: 319 words


HOLIDAYMAKERS from Swansea on a sunshine flight from Cyprus today told of their
terror as the pilot aborted take off as flames shot from an engine after an
explosion.

The Air 2000 jet was grounded after the drama on the runway at Pathos Airport as
it was about to leave for Cardiff with 179 passengers.

They were angry at claims by an Air 2000 spokeswoman that they did not
understand what they were seeing. The airline at first said the plane had not
taken off for technical reasons but when questioned agreed that the engine
problem was to blame.

A spokeswoman said the incident was a "misfire caused by a power surge".

She added: "It's difficult because passengers don't understand what they have
seen."

One woman from Gorseinon who was on board with her husband and 13-year-old son
said: "We were sitting three rows from the front and there was a loud bang.

"Flames came forward from one of the engines. The pilot was brilliant, he came
on the tannoy and said he had never encountered anything like it in all his
years of flying.

"After we got off the plane the staff were brilliant. We were put into a hotel
until another plane was found to bring us back."

Another woman, from Birchgrove, said: "We were sitting by the wing opposite to
where the engine exploded. There was a flame and sparks flew out. People were
screaming.

"I resent the airline saying it was like a car backfiring. We were only seconds
from take off. We were pressed back in our seats and the nose was up.

"We were skidding all over the place and I could see the runway from the window
at one point. We were escorted back in by fire engines and ambulances."

The weary passengers eventually got back to Cardiff at 11pm on Monday on another
aircraft after being due home at 6am.

The Birchgrove woman added: "The take off was very tense but the flight was good
and some passengers were crying with relief when we landed."

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2000 South Wales Evening Post

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 9, 2000, Saturday

MOBS PUT LOYALIST TALKS IN JEOPARDY;
 TERROR AS HOMES ARE ATTACKED

BYLINE: Neil Crossey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 321 words


PEACE talks aimed at ending the loyalist feud were in danger yesterday after
mobs attacked the former home of UFF chief Johnny Adair.

A house in Hazelfield Street off the Shankill in Belfast was ransacked as the
political representatives of the paramilitaries met for the first time.

"Mad Dog" Adair lived in the house until he was jailed in 1995 for directing
terrorism.

Last month, Adair was returned to prison by Secretary of State Peter Mandelson
for breaching the conditions of his release.

Nicola Dunwoody was in the house with her five-month-old son when the mob
arrived.

Ms Dunwoody, whose boyfriend is a former UVF prisoner, said her child's life was
saved by bullet-proof windows in the house and vowed she would not be
intimidated from her home.

The mob also attacked a bakery and another house in nearby Jaffa Street.

Riot police were called and were attacked by a mob of between 30 and 40 men.

William Smith of the Progressive Unionist Party blamed the lower Shankill UFF
for both attacks, saying that they were intended to sabotage yesterday's
meeting.

Adair's wife Gina will today stage a protest at Downing Street demanding his
release.

She said yesterday: "Why should my husband be used as a political scapegoat?"

The Downing Street demonstration has been organised by the British/Ulster
Alliance, which accused Mr Mandelson of double standards for jailing Adair while
allowing IRA ex-prisoners to remain free.

Three people have been shot dead in the feud between the UVF and UFF.

Last night John White, chairman of the Ulster Democratic Party which speaks for
the UFF, said the attacks on homes showed the urgent need for the talks between
his party and the PUP.

The trouble delayed the start of exploratory talks involving both parties.

David Ervine and Dawn Purvis of the PUP met the UDP's Gary McMich- ael and David
Adams in secret late last night.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FEAR: Nicola Dunwoody in her wrecked home. Left, Adair

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 14, 2000, Thursday

SCARED COURT TOLD OF TEENAGER'S ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: Pg. 29

LENGTH: 178 words


A 'TERRIFIED' West Bromwich teenager smashed a double glazed window to escape
from a violent neighbour who accused him of 'grassing', a court heard.

Matthew Letts suffered cuts to his arms and legs as he crawled through the
broken glass, said Walter Bealby, prosecuting.

The 19-year-old believed he was going to be killed by Gary Stevens after he
kicked down the door of his flat, Wolverhampton Crown Court was told.

Stevens threw a TV set and a pair of speakers at the teenager after punching him
as he lay in bed, added Mr Bealby.

The 37-year-old father of two was on bail at the time for stabbing another
neighbour.

He was angry with Mr Letts, the court heard, because he felt he was a 'grass'
who had been 'working for the coppers'.

Stevens, of Lodge Road, West Bromwich, admitted affray and criminal damage and
he was jailed for 18 months.

Hugh Williams, defending, said: 'He was throwing the items of furniture against
a wall rather than at Mr Letts.

'It was frustration and anger rather than intent to cause serious injury.'

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               September 18, 2000

Four injured in van bomb blast;
 Workmen target of Bangor terror attack

BYLINE: By Ciaran McGuigan

LENGTH: 365 words


FOUR men were injured - one seriously - after an explosion under a van in the
centre of Bangor.

The driver of the van was thrown from the vehicle by the blast in High Street
Bangor at around 10.30am.

He was found lying in the street, bleeding badly and calling for help.

The man was taken to the Ulster Hospital in Dundonald suffering from leg
injuries.

A spokeswoman for the hospital described his condition as "serious".

Police said the van had been parked outside the Marine Court Hotel in the town
from about 9am today.

It left the hotel shortly before 10.30am making its way to High Street where the
explosion occurred.

An army bomb disposal expert was called to examine the van, but police said the
cause of the blast had yet to be established.

The men had been working in a cafe, at the rear of the seafront hotel where the
van had been parked. They had just turned a corner into High Street when the
blast happened.

Eye-witnesses said that the source of the explosion appeared to be from below
the driver's seat.

The injured man was a security man at a local nightclub.

The man, in his 40s and from east Belfast, had lived in England for several
years before returning to set up a business.

Three other men were taken to hospital suffering from shock and minor abrasions.

The area around High Street remained sealed off as Army bomb experts prepared to
examine the blue Ford Transit van.

Police said damage to the van and surrounding area was minimal. At least one of
the men was badly hurt.

Eye-witness Bob Milliken described how the driver was blown out of the vehicle
by the blast.

"The van had only turned onto High Street when there was a loud bang and the
driver fell onto the road," he said.

"I could see he was very badly wounded as I ran to help - the bang blew him
straight up out of the driver's seat."

Alan Chambers, the Independent Unionist Mayor of Bangor, was one of the first at
the scene.

He told of his shock at the bombing.

"I was shocked and horrified that this could take place in Bangor. We thought we
had seen an end to this type of incident when the various ceasefires were
called."


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               September 18, 2000

Terror on train as youth gang attacks

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 351 words

DATELINE: Kingston



A gang of 25 drunk and drugged youths, armed with bottles, attacked passengers
on a train near Norbiton station last Friday.

The mob, all aged between 14 and 20, got on at New Malden just before 10pm and
within five minutes they had injured terrified passengers and escaped after
onlookers brought the train to an emergency stop before Norbiton.


The incident follows similar violence on the Chessington line in the last few
months, which prompted a South West Trains promise to increase security.


Passengers were told to vacate the carriage by the gang and one elderly man in
his 70s was punched in the face.


When a middle-aged man dressed in a suit intervened, he was thrown backwards and
a beer bottle was smashed over his head.


His female companion was reportedly bottled in the face, causing a cut to her
eye, and another couple were also hit on the head.


Reports on the number of victims varies between two and five.


One onlooker said: "All hell had broken loose but people with mobile phones
refused to call the police. One of the boys had an uncontrollable rage like he
was on drugs."


Two of the gang were girls and one of them was begging for the violence to stop.


When the train braked, the youths got out and walked up the railway tracks,
saying that they were heading to the Cambridge Road Estate.


Police and ambulance men were waiting at Norbiton station, where the whole train
was evacuated.


The smartly dressed man who challenged the gang suffered cuts to his mouth and
his friend had a cut eyebrow.


This week MP Edward Davey called for permanent guards and cameras on trains.


He said: "It's clear that the British Transport Police and South West Trains
need a more concerted response."


South West Trains is hoping to renew its franchise of the service. A spokesman
said GBP 4m had been spent on security since 1997 on stations such as Norbiton
and Kingston.


She added that all trains have an on-board inspector and the company was
considering installing CCTV on new rolling stock.



LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2000 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               September 18, 2000

Teenage girl in terror attack

BYLINE: Pete Oliver (author email poliver@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 335 words

DATELINE: Bolton



A TEENAGE girl was lucky to escape uninjured in a late-night terror attack when
a thug who bundled her to the ground fled -- when he was spotted by passers-by.

The 19-year-old girl was set upon as she walked home alone from St Gregory's
Guild club on Church Street, Farnworth.

Minutes earlier she spotted a man sitting on a wall and smoking a cigarette, who
was staring at her as she walked along Lord Street.

The man then began to follow her and the terrified girl, who has not been
identified, tried to raise the alarm by calling at a house, but there was no
answer.

Police say that when she reached the junction of Mather Street and Grove Street,
the attacker struck, sneaking up behind her and pushing her to the floor.

Fortunately as she lay helpless on the ground the man fled after hearing a group
of people approaching. Detectives still do not know if his motive was sexual or
robbery.

And today police chiefs warned other women to beware of potential attackers.

Det Chief Insp Dave Law said: "She was not injured but nevertheless when a man
follows a woman through the streets of a town centre it gives cause for concern.

"We do not know what the motive for this crime was, whether it was sexual or
robbery.

"We need to identify this man as a matter of urgency and would urge anybody who
may have seen him running from the scene to contact us."

And Det Chief Insp Law urged women not to walk alone at night and to avoid
taking short cuts. He also advised women to carry personal attack alarms and to
contact police if they are concerned of any suspicious behaviour.

The attacker, who grabbed the young girl just after midnight on Saturday morning
is described as of mixed race, in his late 20s and of medium build. He is over
5ft 6ins tall and was wearing a dark bubble coat and was clean shaven with round
facial features.

Anyone with information about the attack are asked to ontact Bolton police on
0161 872 5050 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.


LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2000 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               September 21, 2000

London again chosen as the target for terror incident;
 MI6 attack thought to be latest strike from Real IRA

LENGTH: 464 words


NO-one has yet claimed responsibility for the attack on the MI6 building.

But the finger of suspicion was immediately pointed towards dissident
republicans who are believed to have been behind several of the recent bombing
campaigns in Britain.

And the group singled out most often has been the Real IRA, the group which
bombed Omagh killing 29 people in August 1998.

The organisation was shamed into declaring a ceasefire after the atrocity which
shocked the world, but it has been linked to a series of attacks this year - at
least two of them in London.

The Real IRA was formed after a split in late 1997 from the Provos because of
fierce opposition to the peace process.

The IRA's quartermaster general, one of the top bomb makers and in charge of all
the secret arms dumps, was among those who walked away to form the group.

Their numbers were low at the time, but two years after Omagh they are
increasing at a worrying level, according to security chiefs in the province.

Belfast, Londonderry, south Armagh, parts of Fermanagh and Co Louth in the
Republic are the areas where most members are based.

This is their timetable of terror so far this year:

February 25 - A bomb fails to detonate close to sleeping quarters inside
Shackleton military barracks at Ballykelly, Co Londonderry.

February 29 - A fully primed rocket discovered close to a police and military
base at Dungannon, Tyrone.

March 15 - A number of men are arrested when police intercept a car carrying
500lbs of home made explosives at Hillsborough, Co Down.

April 6 - A device is found at a perimeter fence at Ebrington barracks in Derry.

May 24 - The terrorists launch a mortar bomb attack at Glassdrummand Army base,
south Armagh, but nobody is injured.

May 26 - Several people are arrested by gardai. All are later released without
charge.

June 1 - A bomb attack at Hammersmith Bridge, London, the first by the Real IRA
in Britain.

June 20 - Explosives found inside a holdall inside the grounds of Hillsborough
Castle, are linked to the Real IRA.

June 30 - Chief Constable Sir Ronnie Flanagan warns of the growing threat being
posed by the group.

July 9 - A 250lb car bomb attack at Stewartstown RUC station. Nobody is hurt.

July 19 - Bomb attack on a railway line in west London.

August 11 - Up to 500lb of explosives are found in Carrigans, Co Donegal after a
high-speed car chase just days before a big Apprentice Boys' march through the
city.

September 12 - A soldier escapes unhurt when a 80lb bomb fails to detonate at a
military training site at Magilligan, Co Londonderry. A second 80lb bomb is
found nearby.

September 13 - A mortar bomb attack on Armagh RUC station. Several cars are
damaged, but nobody is injured.


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 21, 2000

Police warn of more terror attacks;
Inch-by-inch search of HQ and rail line to find launch site

BYLINE: Emma Hartley;Patrick Mcgowan;Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 832 words


THE TERRORISTS who launched a missile at the eighth floor of the MI6 building
may strike again, police warned today.

The attack, which caused minor damage but massive rail and traffic disruption,
brought this stark warning from the head of Scotland Yard's antiterrorist
branch.

"We have a genuine threat of terrorism in London and that is against a number of
targets," said Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry. "We have seen the attack
on Hammersmith Bridge, we have seen the attack on the railway system and tonight
we have seen an attack on the Special Intelligence Service headquarters."

As suspicion focused on the dissident Irish republican group, the Real IRA, an
inch-by-inch search was under way for clues about the type of weapon and where
it was fired from.

Security sources in Northern Ireland, liais-ing closely with the Yard, believe
the missile was a Soviet RPG7 rocket-propelled grenade.

The IRA obtained a substantial number from Palestinian sources in the years
following the Yom Kippur War of 1973. Designed to penetrate armoured steel and
used to devastating effect against RUC Land Rovers, the weapon has little
destructive effect on buildings and in some cases has passed right through walls
with very little damage.

If last night's attack - on the MI6 building on the Albert Embankment at
Vauxhall - is the work of the Real IRA, it represents a publicity coup out of
all proportion to the slight damage it caused.

Republican terrorists have not had such a symbolic success since they fired a
mortar into the garden of No 10 while John Major was holding a Cabinet meeting.

The blast, which police say was caused by a "small missile", came at 9.45pm.
Witnesses reported hearing two loud blasts.

The building was evacuated.

Police closed Vauxhall and Lambeth bridges and cordoned off surrounding roads.

At an early morning press conference Mr Fry said: "The examination of the
building showed that some sort of small missile has hit the exterior at about
the eighth floor leading on to the Albert Embankment. It has caused minimum
damage and the work of the SIS (Secret Intelligence Service) has carried on with
no disruption. We will be undertaking a painstaking forensic examination which
will include the road around the building and the railway line."

The massive disruption caused by that search affected several major road
junctions, Vauxhall Bridge itself, and rail services into Waterloo, including
Eurostar. Trains into Waterloo were turned around at Wimbledon and Clapham
Junction.

Although the Real IRA are prime suspects Mr Fry was publicly keeping an open
mind.

"Clearly we will have to keep in mind the capability of terrorist Irish groups,
but at this stage we will not be ruling out other groups who might see the SIS
as a target. There were no warnings and no claims of responsibility."

The Real IRA is thought to have been behind this summer's bomb attack on
Hammersmith Bridge and the planting of a device on a railway bridge in Ealing,
which caused huge disruption.

Mr Fry said last night's explosion is unlikely to have been caused by a mortar,
which would have caused much more damage.

The daylight search for evidence includes a thorough examination of nearby
railway lines, prompting speculation that the missile could have been fired from
the line itself.

Senior politicians were kept fully aware of developments after the explosion.
Both the Prime Minister, who was at Chequers, and Foreign Secretary Robin Cook
are "relieved" there were no casualties.

Home Secretary Jack Straw, responsible for the security services, is being kept
fully abreast of events, a spokesman said.

Menzies Campbell, Liberal Democrat foreign affairs spokesman, said from his
party's conference in Bournemouth: "This is clearly a breach of security."

In March, both MI6 and the domestic intelligence service MI5 were warned
publicly that their ability to gather secret intelligence could be compromised
by security lapses.

Tom King, the former Tory cabinet minister who chairs parliament's Intelligence
and Security Committee, said informants, on whom the agencies rely for
information, will dry up if they fear their covers may be blown due to weak
internal security.

His warning followed the disclosure that a laptop computer containing classified
information had been mislaid by an MI6 officer - reportedly in the back of a
taxi cab.

Mr King warned the agencies: "People risk their lives in giving the information
in the confidence those agencies will keep it protected. If they don't, then it
undermines the chances of getting such good information in the future."

A distinctive hi-tech cream and green structure on the south bank of the Thames,
the MI6 headquarters is about a mile from the Houses of Parliament.

It featured in the last James Bond film, The World is Not Enough, when part of
the building was shown being blown up by a bomb smuggled in by a terrorist.


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ALAN FRY, THE HEAD OF THE SCOTLAND YARD ANTI-TERRORIST BRANCH, AT THE
SCENE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 21, 2000

Blair's problems may be terror group's opening;
Dissident Irish republicans are the prime suspects in the attack on MI6
headquarters. CAL McCRYSTAL examines why the terrorists might have chosen this
moment to attack

BYLINE: Cal Mccrystal

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 651 words


ASSUMING last night's attack was by dissident Irish republicans - the so-called
Real IRA or the so-called Continuity IRA - the obvious questions to arise are:
Why now? and: What do the perpetrators hope to gain from it?

Both are easily answered. From an Irish-terrorist point of view, conditions are
favourable for a resurgence in violence on this side of the Irish Sea.

The British Government which helped coax the Good Friday peace agreement into
existence shows signs of losing its way as a result of the recent fuel blockade
and the Rawnsley book casting strong aspersions on the Prime Minister and Gordon
Brown's integrity. Republicans traditionally regard "England's difficulty" as
"Ireland's opportunity".

Tensions are again rising in Northern Ireland. Loyalist paramilitaries are
engaged in a bitter internecine struggle in which guns are fired and bombs
detonated.

On the nationalist (Catholic) side, turbulent emotions have been deeply stirred
by the evidence of the 1998 Omagh bombing which killed dozens and is thought to
have been the work of the Real IRA.

In South Antrim, a crucial by-election is taking place today which may decide
the future direction and leadership of the Ulster Unionist Party, currently
headed by David Trimble, Northern Ireland's First Minister in the Province's
fledgling power-sharing Executive.

There are other considerations.

Irish republicanism, including its central and most potent grouping the Provos -
are unhappy with indications that the proposed reform of the Royal Ulster
Constabulary will fall short of republican expectations.

Sinn Fein, the Provisional IRA's political wing, is also unhappy about renewed
suggestions that international inspections of its arms caches do not amount to
the act of decommissioning which was a condition of the power-sharing agreement.

So what is to be gained by republicans, dissident or not, from this volatility?

For one thing, many republicans believe that the Provisional IRA and Sinn Fein's
Gerry Adams have suffered loss of muscle tone by engaging in democracy as part
of a longer strategy for a reunited Ireland.

Attacks on institutions on the British mainland is a sure way of generating the
heat.

A renewed campaign of violence has no guarantees of success, of course.

The attempt to blow up Hammersmith Bridge earlier this year failed, though it
did send frissons of dread through Londoners. Attempts to cause mayhem in
Northern Ireland with further bombs largely have been nipped in the bud as a
result of welcome co-operation between the much maligned RUC and the Irish
police.

There is no doubt that the present loyalist wars have provided republicans with
at least some of the justification they need, in their view, to rattle their
sabres, if not to go to battle again. However, there is a greater imperative
that could force a renewal of the Troubles.

It is widely accepted that terrorism flourishes in a community where deprivation
produces discontent. In both parts of Ireland today there is growing prosperity.
The community discontent that gave sustenance and shelter to IRA terrorism is
disappearing. Before it disappears altogether, republicans of violent intent are
desperate to stir the slumbering beast into another bout of lethal activity.

When the Orange marching season passed in Northern Ireland everyone heaved a
sigh of relief. But those who would seek a renewed outbreak of the Troubles
never lose sight of the longer game plan, which is to force the Protestant
people of Northern Ireland into a united Ireland sooner rather than later.

With the British Prime Minister about to be preoccupied with winning the next
General Election, and with the republicans' American hero Bill Clinton preparing
to leave the White House, now may seem as good a time as any for republicanism
to rattle its own sabres and rattle the enemy.


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 21, 2000

Blast rocks MI6 spy base: Anti-terrorist operation launched after missile attack

BYLINE: Jamie Wilson, Rebecca Allison, Steven Morris and Vikram Dodd

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901 words


Anti-terrorist officers were last night investigating a missile attack on the
London headquarters of the MI6 foreign intelligence service on the south bank of
the Thames.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of the Anti Terrorist Branch, said
in a press briefing early this morning: "At about 9.45 yesterday evening an
object was fired at the Vauxhall Cross headquarters of the secret intelligence
service. Examination of the building would suggest some form of small missile
has hit the exterior at about the eighth floor causing minimal damage."

He said it had not affected the work of the secret service , but had resulted in
widespread disruption to traffic, and would cause the suspension of many
services into Waterloo, including the Eurostar.

Asked if he thought it was the work of Irish dissident groups, Mr Fry said:
"Clearly at this time it is far too early to speculate. I have to keep in mind
the capability of Irish dissident groups but I am not ruling out other groups."

Mr Fry said he doubted it was a mortar attack because he would have expected
more substantial damage. He said there were no warnings and no claims of
responsibility.

"The sheer nature of the intelligence service would suggest there are other
groups around the world who would see it as a potential target."

A police officer on the scene said one window and surrounding masonry had been
damaged.

"Officers are in attendance at the scene and there are no reports of
casualties," a Scotland Yard spokesman said. "There has been minor damage to the
building."

Witnesses described hearing two loud explosions which rocked surrounding
buildings and were felt on the platform of the nearby Vauxhall underground
station.

Sridharan Balakrishnan, who works at the Texaco garage on the Albert Embankment
behind the building, said: "I heard two large bangs at around 9.55pm. It was
very loud and hurt my ears. Then I saw smoke coming from the MI6 building. I was
very scared and I went into the office at the back of the garage."

The road between Vauxhall bridge and Lambeth bridge was closed, and there was a
heavy police presence around the back of the building, a distinctive cream and
green hi-tech structure on the banks of the Thames. Police cars swarmed over
Vauxhall bridge and a police boat patrolled the river.

A British Transport police spokesman said the Vauxhall-to-Waterloo railway line
which runs to the south of the MI6 building had been cordoned off by police, who
threw a 250-yard exclusion zone around the headquarters.

One person who had seen the front of the building within five minutes of the
first reports of an explosion said there had been no visible damage to the
structure.

A local resident, Matt Tiller, said: "At about 9.45pm there was an absolutely
massive explosion, the like of which I have never heard before.

"I had no idea where it had come from. I have come out to look but police have
cordoned off a massive area. I cannot really see any flames coming from it."

Another witness, James Trott, said: "A friend of mine was on a bus and he was
coming over the bridge and heard two big explosions and glass shattered all over
the place and the next thing we knew there were about six fire engines coming up
the road and police were blocking all the roads off."

Another witness, Andrew Preece, said he had been driving home with his
girlfriend when he saw a flash of light coming from the top of the building.

"It looked as if it was internal, from the centre of the building, but the flash
of light was from the top of the building. It was followed by a large bang and
the ground seemed to shake and my car was shaking. I looked at my girlfriend and
said, 'I think that was a bomb.' We drove off along the Embankment trying to
look at the building trying to see something and I didn't. Coming back, all the
roads were closed off."

Joanne Murphy, 43, had just got home to her flat five minutes from the building
when she heard the explosions.

"I heard two almighty bangs and I thought that it was fire works," she said.
"There was one bang a short interval of two seconds then another one. I feel
shocked because of my two kids who were in the flat. It is worrying."

Local resident Wendy Cook, a barrister, said there had been two large
explosions, "exceptionally loud, one running into the other. They rattled my
windows. It was obviously a really serious explosion".

She added there was then total silence and no sign of flames or fire. "If it is
a bomb I am amazed that anyone could have got so close to the security services
building or into it."

Asked how she felt about living within yards of the MI6 headquarters, Ms Cook
said: "On the whole it makes you feel safer because of the local security it
affords you."

Should the blasts ultimately prove to be the work of terrorists, it will add to
a long list of attacks on high-profile London landmarks down the years, from the
Downing Street mortar attack in 1991, to the attack in June on Hammersmith
bridge.

A Foreign Office spokesman said there would be a full police investigation into
the blasts. Scotland Yard immediately went on to gold alert.

The foreign secretary was "relieved there have been no casualties", the
spokesman said.

Background, page 7 Latest news on the MI6 blasts on the Guardian network at
www.guardianunlimited.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 21, 2000, Thursday

ATTACK ON MI6: RENEGADE REPUBLICAN GROUP WILL BE PRIME SUSPECTS;
 T ATTACK ON MI6 DISSIDENT TERRORISTS MAY NOT HAVE MANY SUPPORTERS, BUT MEMBERS
ARE WELL-EQUIPPED TO MOUNT CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: David Mckittrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 543 words


THE PRIME Irish suspects for the MI6 attack will be the Real IRA, the renegade
republican group which was responsible for the bomb that killed 29 people in
Omagh, County Tyrone, just over two years ago.

Although the Omagh attack was followed by fierce condemnation from around the
world, the group not only remained in existence but in recent months has managed
to escalate its campaign.

While most of its activities have taken place within Northern Ireland, there
have been several attempts to carry the campaign to Britain. Republican
organisations have always been aware that attacks in London generate far more
attention than incidents in Northern Ireland.

In this instance, the MI6 building offered a prestige target, with any even
half-successful attack being certain to produce huge publicity at home and
abroad. Although the intelligence organisation is sometimes mentioned in
reporting on Northern Ireland, its sister organisation, MI5, figures much more
often in terms of operating against Republican groups.

MI5 is certainly to the fore in intelligence-gathering and surveillance on
Republican subjects, in particular in England, but the MI6 building provided
such a choice target that it may have proved irresistible to the Real IRA.

Although the exact method of attack was not immediately known, the Real IRA has
launched a number of mortar attacks in recent months.

The most recent took place a week ago when a device was fired into an RUC
station in Armagh from a van parked on a building site beside the base. No
serious injuries were caused when it exploded inside a perimeter fence, but a
number of police officers and civilians were treated for shock.

The Real IRA emerged several years ago when a handful of senior IRA figures took
exception to the Republican movement's involvement in the peace process. The
numbers involved were small, but they included some big figures.

One of them was the IRA's quarter-master general, while another was an important
man in the "engineering department," who was skilled in the design and
construction of the IRA's assortment of home-made but deadly weapons.

Among the recruits to the Real IRA were a number of members of the IRA in the
south Armagh region, which has traditionally been heavily involved in campaigns
of violence in England. The group is minuscule compared to the IRA itself but,
with IRA technology at its disposal, it has become clear that even a small
number of activists can cause considerable damage and disruption.

The security forces on both sides of the border have had considerable success
against the Real IRA, repeatedly foiling bombing attempts and charging a number
of suspects with serious offences.

However, although large numbers of security and intelligence personnel are
involved in anti-Real IRA activities, some of its attacks still get through.

Both the Royal Ulster Constabulary and the Irish police, the Gardai, have warned
that the Real IRA and a similar organisation, the Continuity IRA, are trying to
step up their activities.

No fatalities have been attributed to either group this year. However, of the
nine deaths during the year, eight have been the work of loyalist rather than
Republican organisations.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police secure the area outside the MI6 building last night Max Nash

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 21, 2000

Police hunt for bomb as explosion hits MI6
 MI6 experts points to terrorist attack as investigations into security breach
begin

SECTION: Agency: AGENCY, Pg.21

LENGTH: 577 words


A MASSIVE police operation was under way today after the headquarters of MI6 was
rocked by a blast late last night.

Explosives experts were at the scene after eyewitnesses reported seeing smoke
pouring over the roof of the building on the south bank of the River Thames in
central London.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "Officers were called at approximately 9.46pm to
reports of a possible explosion at a premises in SE1.

"Officers are in attendance at the scene and there are no reports of casualties.

"There has been minor damage to the building, believed to be on the eighth
floor."

All the roads around the distinctive hi-tech cream and green structure which is
only a mile from the Houses of Parliament were sealed off as the investigation
into the explosion began.

Eyewitnesses spoke of two blasts.

Andrew Preece was driving home with his girlfriend when he saw a flash of light
coming from the top of the MI6 building.

He told BBC News 24: "It looked as if it was internal from the centre of the
building but the flash of light was from the top of the building.

"It was followed by a large bang and the ground seemed to shake and my car was
shaking. I looked at my girlfriend and said, I think that was a bomb.

"We drove off along the Embankment trying to look at the building trying to see
something and I didn't. Coming back, all the roads were closed off."

Firefighters and ambulance crews were also called to the scene at Vauxhall Cross
although no casualties were reported.

Sridharan Balakrishnn, 23, who works at the Texaco garage on the Albert
Embankment behind the building, told PA News the area was swarming with police
within minutes.

He said: "I heard two large bangs at around 9.55pm. It was very loud and hurt my
ears.

"Then I saw smoke coming from the MI6 building."

James Trott, 42, from Hull, East Yorkshire, told BBC News 24: "I was coming over
Vauxhall Bridge in a minibus and I heard two explosions coming from the MI6
building.

"We looked up and I saw panes of glass shattering on the pavement. A couple of
the windows had been blown out on the eighth floor. Police, ambulances and fire
engines all arrived minutes later."

The building was featured in the last James Bond film, The World is Not Enough,
when part of the building was shown being blown up in one scene by a bomb
smuggled in by a terrorist and has been built to withstand blasts and terrorist
attacks.

Stephen Dorril, an expert on MI6, told BBC News 24 he would be "extremely
surprised" if anyone had managed to plant bombs inside the building, prompting
speculation of a mortar attack.

He said: "It's very difficult to believe if that was done. It would be an
absolutely major security breach if that was the case. It's speculation, it's
possibly something like a mortar attack if it was a terrorist attack at all."

Mr Dorril also speculated that the blast could be part of a campaign by the
Continuity IRA or a similar group against mainland Britain.

But he added: "It may have been the case that they have got successful, got the
right building, and got the headlines they were looking for, but whether they
could continue it I don't know."

He added that security services bosses would be "shocked" by the attack.

"It's like anything, after a time you become complacent."

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook was being briefed on the incident, said the Foreign
Office. He was "relieved that there have been no casualties", said a spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2000 Western Morning News

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           September 22, 2000, Friday

DISSIDENT TERROR ALERT AFTER ROCKET ATTACK ON SPY HQ

BYLINE: Matt Adams

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 718 words


Security was being tightened last night amid fears of an escalating terrorist
campaign by dissident Republicans in the wake of the rocket attack on the MI6
headquarters.

Security chiefs believe the Real IRA, which is opposed to the Northern Ireland
peace process and bombed Omagh, killing 29 people in August 1998, was behind the
attack on the top-security building on the south bank of the Thames in central
London.

A senior security source said: 'This is clearly an organisation which is
becoming more and more aggressive and confident of what it can achieve and
sustain.

'It has the capacity to strike right at the heart of London. It has an overseas
team in place, indicating it's a force to be reckoned with.'

If last night's attack, which looks likely to have involved the use of a
rocket-propelled grenade, does prove to be the work of the Real IRA, it would be
the dissident group's third attack on the British mainland this year.

The terrorists are thought to have been responsible for this summer's bomb
attacks on London's Hammersmith Bridge and a railway line at Ealing Broadway.

Although the group called a ceasefire in the aftermath of the Omagh tragedy, it
is now known to be active again and security services in Northern Ireland are on
full alert against further attacks.

Earlier this month, the group was suspected of a mortar attack on the Royal
Ulster Constabulary station at Armagh, and also fell under suspicion the
previous day when two 80lb bombs were found at a military training camp at
Magilligan, County Londonderry.

The prospect of an active terrorist group at large on the mainland, apparently
equipped with at least one rocket launcher, prompted an immediate upgrading of
security at other security-sensitive buildings.

And Sussex Police confirmed that security measures at next week's Labour
conference in Brighton were to be tightened further.

Assistant Chief Constable Nigel Yeo said: 'Among other measures, people are
likely to see an increased number of police road checks not just in Brighton but
across Sussex.'

In London, Metropolitan Police Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of
Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch, told reporters the device used in
Wednesday night's attack was 'possibly a rocket launcher' and Irish terrorists
were known to have access to such weapons.

'Clearly the sort of weapon we believe was used in this attack is known to be in
the hands of certain groups. They will be uppermost in our minds,' said Mr Fry.

Pressed on where the device could have come from, he added: 'Certainly there
have been finds in both the south and north of Ireland and similar devices may
have been used here.'

But he stressed he was keeping an open mind about who was behind the attack.

'Clearly we have to keep in mind the capabilities of dissident Irish groups, but
at this stage we will not be ruling out any group who might see the Secret
Intelligence Service as a target,' he said.

According to Mr Fry, the device was fired at the building from a range of
between 200 to 500 metres. There had been no warning, and nor had there been any
claims of responsibility.

Neither MI6 nor the domestic security service, MI5, are believed to be involved
in the investigation.

The attack, which was launched without warning at 9.45pm, damaged a window, two
panels and a section of the metal frame of the eighth floor of the distinctive
green and cream MI6 building.

Police officers spent much of the day scouring an area stretching 500 yards
around the building. The search also took in nearby railway lines running into
Waterloo station, prompting speculation the missile could have been fired from
the tracks or nearby.

The investigation caused significant disruption to London commuters. Major roads
around the building in Vauxhall Rail were closed for much of the day and rail
services, including Eurostar, were badly disrupted.

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook, who has responsibility for MI6, praised the
service's staff for continuing to work today.

'If the intention of the attackers was to disrupt SIS's operations, they have
failed in their objective,' said Mr Cook.

Anyone with information about the attack was urged to contact the Anti
-Terrorist Branch on 0800 789 321.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Officers stand guard outside the MI6 headquarters yesterday and, right,
the scars of the terrorist attack

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 22, 2000, Friday

MI6 MISSILE ATTACK: HARDLINE TERRORISTS SEIZED ARSENAL BEFORE SPLIT WITH IRA
OVER PEACE PROCESS

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto And Kim Sengupta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 363 words


THE REAL IRA, a breakaway group of hardline republicans, is believed to be
responsible for the attack on the MI6 building, in what is the third bombing
incident in London so far this year.

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch warned in June that the capital could
expect a sustained terror campaign by opponents of the Northern Ireland peace
process.

The Real IRA, a small but well-equipped outfit, was always tipped as the most
likely force behind any sustained violence. The organisation, which has about
100 members and an active unit in the mainland, emerged several years ago when a
handful of senior IRA figures rejected the peace process and broke away.

One of the major figures was the IRA's quartermaster-general, while another was
a man skilled in the design and construction of the IRA's homemade weapons.

Before they broke with the mainstream republican leadership they seized weapons
from a huge arsenal of weapons and explosives, including rocket launchers, which
were held in secret bunkers.

Recruits, many of whom come from the Armagh region of Northern Ireland, which
has traditionally been heavily involved in mainland bombing campaigns, are
increasing, according to security sources. The group's confidence is also said
to be rising, despite the security forces' success in foiling the organisation's
bombing attempts and charging a number of suspects.

A security source said yesterday: "Clearly this is an organisation which is
becoming more and more aggressive, and confident in what it can achieve and
sustain.

"They are boasting the capacity to strike right in the heart of London. They
have an overseas team and this is another indication of a force to be reckoned
with. What's missing, is their strategy. What is it supposed to be about?"

The group is believed to be responsible for a bomb that exploded on Hammersmith
Bridge, west London, on 1 June, causing minor damage but substantial disruption.

Six weeks later another device was found on a railway line at Ealing, west
London, and last month false bomb threats were made at three London bridges.

The group bombed Omagh in August 1998, killing 29 people.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 22, 2000, Friday

MI6 MISSILE ATTACK: TERROR STRIKES ON MAINLAND UK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 264 words


July 2000: Ealing Broadway, London. Renegade Republicans blamed for bomb defused
on a railway track near the station

June 2000: Hammersmith Bridge, London. The Real IRA use just 2lbs of semtex in a
devise that explodes on Hammersmith Bridge. There are no injuries and only
structural damage is caused by the explosion.

February 1996: Docklands, London. The IRA marks the end of its cease- fire by
detonating a 250kg car bomb in South Quay. Two people are killed, over 100
injured. The bomb is a mixture of Semtex, quarrying explosives and fertiliser.

June 1996: Arndale Shopping Centre, Manchester. The IRA is blamed for a car bomb
which explodes in the centre of Manchester injuring more than 200 people and
causing pounds 200m damage.

April 1996: Hammersmith Bridge. Two bombs with 32lbs of Semtex, planted for the
anniversary of the Easter Uprising, fail to go off.

March 1994: Heathrow, London. Several IRA mortar attacks on Heathrow airport
bring widespread chaos to domestic and international flights. In one attack, a
bomb hit the roof of a crowded terminal building, missing empty passenger jets
by less than 60 metres. No injuries.

April 1993: Bishopsgate, London. An IRA truck bomb devastates London's financial
centre, killing one and injuring 44, as well as causing damage running into
hundreds of millions of pounds.

March 1993: Warrington, Cheshire. The IRA carry out two bomb attacks. The first,
at a gasworks, narrowly fails to explode high pressure gas tanks, the second, on
the town's shopping centre, kills two boys aged three and 12.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 22, 2000, Friday

MI6 MISSILE ATTACK: THE TERRORISTS' WEAPON OF CHOICE: ARM IT, FIRE IT, RUN

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 426 words


THE rocket-propelled grenade that was used to blast the MI6 building is a handy
terrorist weapon - it is easy to use and easy to conceal.

But although the Soviet-made RPG7 anti-tank device has been a popular weapon of
terror in Ireland, Wednesday night's attack is believed to be the first time it
has been deployed on the British mainland.

The weapon was identified after parts of the launcher were found by police close
to the MI6 headquarters last night.

Designed to penetrate armoured steel on a tank, the RPG7 has little impact on
buildings and in some cases in Northern Ireland has passed right through the
walls with little damage.

But by hitting the prestigious MI6 headquarters in the centre of London it has
made a huge impact with the world's press and sent a warning shot to the
Government and security authorities.

Paul Beaver, a spokesman for the defence publication Jane's, said that the
weapon used in the assault was probably a variant of the RPG7.

He said the weapon weighs 7.5kg and can fold in half to easily fit under a coat
or into the boot of a car. It is now mainly used in developing countries and
would be targeted against lightly armoured vehicles.

The grenade is normally fitted with an armour-piercing head but the limited
damage done to the Vauxhall building suggests it was either adapted to contain
an explosive or malfunctioned.

"It is not a very effective weapon," Mr Beaver said. "It takes less than 25
seconds to go through the motion of arming it, then you fire it and run."

Another disadvantage of the weapon is that it has been known to malfunction,
with the rocket propellant working but the grenade failing to explode.

When fired, the weapon produces a double explosion: the first when the grenade
is launched and a second moments later when it hits the target. According to
eyewitnesses, the second blast was sufficient for them to feel it underground.

Mike Yardley, a terrorism expert, said: "We know that it (the RPG7) is a weapon
that has been in possession of, for example, both the IRA and Middle Eastern
terrorist groups."

The break-away group believed to be behind Wednesday night's attack, the Real
IRA, has access to a considerable arsenal of weapons and explosives - including
rocket launchers - which they seized from secret arms bunkers before splitting
with the mainstream republican leadership.

In July, a huge shipment of arms and explosives bound for a group of breakaway
republican terrorists was seized by Croatian police in the port of Split.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: It takes 25 seconds to arm and fire the Russian RPG7

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 22, 2000, Friday

MISSILE LAUNCH ON MI6: WE'LL STRIKE AGAIN;
 FEARS FOR TERRORIST ATTACK ON LABOUR'S CONFERENCE

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards, Christian Fraser Tom Newton-Dunn And Ted Oliver

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 850 words


BOMBERS who attacked the MI6 spy HQ in London could blitz the Labour conference
in Brighton next week, security experts feared last night.

Special Branch officers said the Grand Hotel in Brighton - scene of the IRA's
notorious attack on Margaret Thatcher's government in 1983 - could again be the
target.

They believe the rocket that smashed into the MI6 building on Wednesday night
was a warning to the Government from the Real IRA, which planted the car bomb
that killed 29 people in Omagh in August 1998.

A senior Scotland Yard source said: "The timing is not a coincidence. The rocket
could just as easily been aimed at the Grand Hotel next week.

"After what the Provos did to the Tories when they bombed the Grand in 1983, it
sends a chill down the spine."

Yesterday Sussex police and the Yard were making plans to step up security for
the Labour conference.

A Sussex police source said: "The missile attack on MI6 brings the danger of an
attack during the conference into sharp focus.

"We know Brighton could be a target and we are doing everything we can to
minimise the risk."

Kevin Toolis, author of the book IRA Rebel Hearts, said yesterday: "The MI6
mainland attack is the Real IRA's first significant greeting card to the world
announcing their deadly presence.

"The message is simple: 'All the King's horses and all the King's men have not
stopped us, and we are going to do it again'."

Police revealed that the weapon used against the MI6 headquarters at Vauxhall
Cross was a Russian-made anti-tank rocket, known as an RPG 7.

Parts of the weapon, including one of its stabilising fins, were discovered by
detectives sifting through the debris that fell from the eighth floor of the
building.

Scotland Yard narrowed down the launch site to a small park known as Spring
Gardens alongside Vauxhall main line station and about 200 yards from the MI6
building. Police found part of the launcher in the park.

The shoulder-launched RPG 7 is a devastating weapon and has been used in Ulster
to blow up armoured cars.

But the attack in the heart of London is believed to be the first time one has
been used on the mainland.

Bizarrely, the inspiration for the bombing may have been the latest James Bond
film The World is Not Enough, which features an attack on MI6 with an RPG.

Yesterday people living near the building told how they heard the rocket being
fired and hitting the target.

Pensioner Eric Whittington, 71, whose flat overlooks the park where the grenade
was launched, said: "I was watching TV with my wife when we heard this enormous
bang.

"We are about 300 yards from the MI6 building. I looked towards the window and
saw a brilliant red flash and sparks flying in the air. Almost instantly I heard
a second bang further away, which must have been the missile exploding on the
target.

"By the time I got to the window whoever fired the rocket was gone."

Mark Gale, who runs The Lavender pub, said: "There was a huge blast from the
park and then a second bang, not quite so loud, straight after it.

"It shook the whole pub and made the spirit bottles rattle on the shelves." The
RPG 7 rocket carries a four-pound high-explosive warhead travelling at 1,000
feet a second for about 600 yards.

The weapon makes a loud bang when it is fired - thought to be why some witnesses
who heard the attack reported two explosions.

An anti-terrorist officer said yesterday: "The weapon is devastating but is
small and light enough to be easily operated by one man. The whole unit folds
down to the length of an umbrella. We think the shooter probably got out of a
car, walked a few metres into the park, took aim and fired. He then got back in
the car and they were away.

"The whole of the action could have taken less than 90 seconds."

Despite the large blast, the building, which has bullet-proof glass, was only
slightly damaged. MI6 said that justified the controversial pounds 220million
bill for their heavily-fortified HQ, which was completed in 1994. The rocket
passed over one of Britain's busiest rail routes - the five track approach to
Waterloo, which carries hundreds of commuter trains and Eurostar expresses every
day.

Scotland Yard Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, said: "It was a reckless act that
endangered the lives of many people." MI6 staff were reported to be working
normally yesterday but several offices in the area were sealed off. Detectives
were checking footage taken from several video cameras covering busy traffic
junctions in the area and from cameras on the building itself.

The area around the park and the site of the explosion were subjected to a
finger-tip searches by specially trained police teams.

Police believe the attack was launched by the same Real IRA terror cell that
planted two bombs in London during the summer. The first seriously damaged
Hammersmith Bridge in June and blew out windows in nearby homes.

The second, in July, was left alongside railway lines at Ealing, west London.
All the bombs, including Wednesday's, caused transport chaos.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EVIL: Terrorist with rocket launcher; TARGET: The heavily-fortified;
MI6 building that suffered a direct hit from the grenade fired from a rocket
-launcher across a busy rail route; HUNT: Police search for clues;; SMASHED:
Window in the HQ; CLOSE: MI6 from Vauxhall station

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           September 25, 2000, Monday

DOWN'S COUPLE IN ATTACK TERROR;
 APPALLED POLICE ASK FOR HELP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 255 words


SHOCKED police at Leamington are looking for a thug who assaulted two people
with Down's Syndrome.

The man indecently assaulted a 35-year-old woman. When her male companion went
to her defence, he was stabbed in the stomach.

It happened on Friday night at about 9 o'clock, near the Coventry Arms pub in
Guys Cliffe Road.

Police, who are asking the public for their help, said the pair were returning
to their Heath Terrace address after calling at a chip shop in Rugby Road.

They were approached by a man outside the pub. He indecently assaulted the woman
and when her companion swore at the attacker, he produced a small knife

The man with Down's Syndrome, who is also 35, was then pulled to the ground by
the attacker who tried to stab him in the chest. As the victim defended himself,
he was stabbed in the stomach.

The thug ran off in the direction of Guys Cliffe Avenue. The couple reached
their home before they reported the attack to the police. The man was treated in
Warwick Hospital for stab wounds and facial scratches but, like his companion,
wasn't seriously injured.

Warwickshire police spokeswoman Cathy Ward said officers were appalled by the
attack on two vulnerable members of the community.

"We want to hear from anyone who can help us to find who has done this," she
said.

The man is described as 6ft and thin, with spiky blond hair. In his mid-20s, he
was wearing an Adidas jacket with an emblem on the chest and black shoes.

Call 01926 415000 with any information.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 25, 2000

Attack terror for city OAP

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 144 words


POLICE are hunting for two young con artists who assaulted and robbed a frail
Glasgow pensioner in her own home.

Two boys knocked on the 80-year-old's door in Dee Street, Riddrie around 4.30pm
on Saaturday afternoon claiming to be raising money for football strips.

The OAP offered to sponsor the boy's team and went for her purse.

The fraudsters stormed into her house and attacked the woman, escaping with a
small amount of money from her purse.

The pensioner, who has not been named, required stitches on her face.

Police believe the teen tricksters had already conned money out of other
unsuspecting residents in Riddrie.

Officers at Easterhouse are now hunting the young attackers, believed to be aged
12 and 14.

Det Con David Ross of Easterhouse CID said today: "This was a terrifying
experience for this defenceless old lady."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                               September 26, 2000

Pub boss beaten in attack
 Chemical spray terror

BYLINE: By Colin Mackenzie.

SECTION: Crime: Assault, Pg.16

LENGTH: 290 words


POLICE were today hunting a vicious attacker who sprayed chemicals into the face
of a North-east bar manager.

Eoin McKenzie, 29, was set upon as he opened the Nag's Head bar in Elgin.

A mystery attacker burst into the Lossie Wynd pub and threatened to kill him -
then sprayed chemical into his eyes.

The pair then struggled and Mr McKenzie suffered a back injury that required
five stitches.

The attacker, who had a Glasgow accent, fled when a cellar-man appeared in the
bar.

Today detectives described the attack, which happened just after 11am yesterday,
as a "particularly nasty assault".

And the pub's landlord, John Russell, said Mr McKenzie had been traumatised by
the attack.

He said: "Eoin is totally shattered by the experience.

"He's even considering whether he wants to come back to work in the licensed
trade.

"It was a horrific attack and the regulars who use the bar just can't understand
it because Eoin is a very quiet chap, well liked and a valued member of staff.

He said he had spoken to his manager about the terrifying attack.

"Eoin told me the guy came into the bar and told him he was going to murder
him," he said.

"He sprayed something into his face and there was a bit of a struggle.

"Eoin fell to the ground and felt what he thought was a punch - he needed five
stitches to an injury on his back."

Police today said the chemical was not expected to leave any lasting injury.

The attacker is described as in his late 20s, 5ft 8in, stocky build with short
dark hair.

He was wearing a black bomber jacket and navy jeans and was last seen heading in
the direction of Northport, Elgin.

Anyone with information should contact police in Elgin on 01343 543 101 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2000 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               September 26, 2000

Disabled man blinded in street attack terror

BYLINE: Pete Oliver (author email poliver@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 413 words

DATELINE: Bolton



A DISABLED Little Hulton man -- with a mental age of just nine -- has been left
blind in one eye after being attacked in the street.

Police are now appealing for members of the community to come forward in a bid
to trace the thugs who hit Gregory Maddock, aged 29, in the face with a brick as
he walked through the Amblecote estate to the shops.

Mr Maddock, who is also deaf, was taken to the Royal Bolton Hospital after the
attack just minutes away from his home in Burns Road.

A three-hour struggle by surgeons to save the sight in the stricken man's left
eye failed.

Mr Maddock's father Roy, aged 56, who is his son's full time carer, told how
Gregory's trip to the shops ended in horror when he returned covered in blood.

"Despite his disabilities Gregory needs his own space and time and I let him go
to the shops," said Mr Maddock. "I just couldn't believe it when he returned.
His injuries were appalling.

"We called for an ambulance straight away and he was taken to hospital but they
could not save his sight. It will take him a long time to recover."

Mr Maddock senior said his son has suffered a torrent of insults and abuse in
the past.

"He has been spat at and has stones thrown at him," he said. "It got to the
stage where I was taking him away from here at the weekends to places like
Blackpool just to give him a break from it."

He added: "I cannot put into words what I feel about the people who have done
this to him but they are bullies and cowards."

Detectives at Little Hulton CID branded the incident as a "vicious and
unprovoked attack" and urged anyone who knew anything about it to get in touch.

Det Con Brian Urmson, who is spearheading the investigation, said: "Because of
the nature of Gregory's disabilities communication is a problem and we have been
unable to get a description of his attackers.

"We will be waiting until he has recovered so we can ask him some questions
through sign language."

Det Con Urmson added: "What we do know is that he left home at 6pm last Thursday
and we believe he walked along Eastham Way into Cleggs Lane. He also walked past
the Dukes Gate pub. He was home by 6.45pm so it happened quickly.

"We would ask anyone who saw Gregory last Thursday night or who knows anything
about the attack to contact us."

Anyone with information can call Little Hulton CID on 0161 856 5285 or 0161 856
5272. Gregory Maddock, who has been blinded on one eye Ref: H3908/35


LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2000 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 29, 2000, Friday

POLICE WARN OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 48 words


POLICE chiefs yesterday warned the public to be on their guard amid fears of a
terror campaign by breakaway Irish republicans in the run-up to Christmas.

They said terrorists could strike anywhere, had the widest range of weapons ever
and would stop officers tackling other crimes.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2000 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      September 29, 2000, Friday Edition 1

Lying charmer tried to kill me - Lover's terror arson attack

BYLINE: by Andy Lloyd

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 286 words


   A JEALOUS lover who launched a terrifying firebomb attack on his
ex-girlfriend's home was turned into police by the wife he spurned.

Jealous John Eland snapped when his teenage lover Debbie Frazer ended their
three-year affair and took terrible revenge by

setting fire to her family home.

Eland, a lying charmer who claimed he had once worked for MI5, launched the
attack after his lover tired of their bizarre relationship during which they
lived under the same roof as his ex-wife.

Yesterday Eland was jailed for three years, nine months at Newcastle Crown Court
for pouring petrol through the letterbox of the home in Laurel Street, Wallsend,
and setting it alight in the dead of night.

Escaped

It was only by seconds that 19-year-old Debbie, her parents Caroline and Norman,
and brothers Andrew, four and eight-week-old Liam escaped the fire alive.

After the case, Debbie said: "He's obsessive. I'm petrified he'll try to find me
when he's released.

"I've been dreading this day for weeks, but I had to come to court and see him
sent to prison.

"I stared at him in the dock, but he didn't have

the guts to look me in the eye.''

Eland had persuaded Debbie to live with him and his ex-wife Christine Baker in
Charnwood Avenue, Longbenton, but she returned to her parents after he became
obsessive.

He was caught after his former wife told the police he had told her of his arson
plan before the fire. He was also caught on CCTV buying the 4lb can of petrol
used in the arson.

His wife said: "I lived there for the sake of the children, even though I had to
sleep on a camp bed while they had the bedroom. When I found out about the fire
I went straight to the police."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Crazed - jealous John Eland, left, set fire to the home of Debbie
Frazer, right

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                October 2, 2000

Gang attack terror for handbag woman, 45

BYLINE: Eric Leaver (author email eleaver@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 84 words

DATELINE: Bolton



A BOLTON woman was viciously kicked as she lay helpless on the ground after five
thugs tried to snatch her handbag.

The 45-year-old was knocked over and repeatedly kicked during the attack on
Nottingham Drive in Halliwell at 11.15pm last night.

But the woman, who was going home after an evening playing bingo, still refused
to let go of her bag.

The woman was bruised and badly shaken by the assault.

Police are appealing for anyone with information to ring 0161 872 5050.


LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2000 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                October 3, 2000

Trimble on attack over 'giving in to terrorism'

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 135 words


NORTHERN Ireland First Minister David Trimble today accused the Government of
surrendering to terrorism.

The Ulster Unionist leader is under growing pressure from his own party and
could face a leadership challenge within weeks by angry anti-Good Friday
Agreement hardliners.

The pressure is being piled on Mr Trimble because of the IRA's failure to move
towards the decommissioning of its huge stockpile of arms. New measures
announced last Friday - including telling convicted IRA men on the run from jail
they could return and be freed, and the dismantling of more army bases - were
seen as another government attempt to get the IRA to act.

Mr Trimble said:"The British Government is doing what successive governments
have promised not to do - it is surrendering to terrorism," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 5, 2000

Prison for terror gang who attacked students

BYLINE: Arnot Mcwhinnie

SECTION: Pg. 33

LENGTH: 269 words


TWO masked muggers who slashed a student across the face with a knife and
pistol-whipped him during a reign of terror at a university were jailed
yesterday for 'appalling crimes'.

Lord Dawson heard how during a twoday robbery spree at Paisley University, a
Greek student was scarred for life. A day earlier, a group of French students in
their twenties was forced to hand over cash, a watch and credit cards by the
two, plus an accomplice. One girl was menaced with a handgun and all feared for
their lives.

Yesterday at the High Court in Glasgow, Lord Dawson raised his voice in anger
when he told John Lynch, 23, and William Wingate, 20: 'It is hardly the welcome
that right-thinking Scots people would extend to foreign people coming to our
country.' Lynch, whose address was given as Greenock Prison and who had
inflicted 'horrific facial injuries' on the Greek student, was jailed for seven
and a half years. Wingate, of Well Street, Paisley, was jailed for five years.

Last month the pair admitted assaulting and robbing the students near Paisley
University's halls of residence on May 26 and 27 this year.

Peter Gray, prosecuting, told how the French students were ambushed by three
masked men, two with knives and one carrying a gun, who told them they would be
killed if they did not give them money.

The next night the Greek student was walking back to the halls of residence when
he was pushed to the ground by Lynch and Wingate, who demanded his money. He was
then slashed, pistol whipped, and robbed of his mobile phone and GBP 15.

His face was permanently scarred.


LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 5, 2000

COPS PRAISE OAP 'TERROR ATTACK' GIRLS

LENGTH: 82 words


    FOUR young girls who were blamed for an horrific attack on an OAP were last
night praised as "angels".

    The two seven-year-olds and two 10-year-olds, allegedly battered Mary McCoy,
69, and tried to steal a ring from her finger.

    But police now say the girls actually did a "marvellous job" in helping
confused Mary home after she had fallen in the street - which is how she came to
be bruised.

    Mary, of Edinburgh, said: "I've been told I fell but I just can't remember."


LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2000 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 7, 2000

Raped in paradise;
Terror of holidaymaker attacked during a Thai religious festival

BYLINE: Matthew Knowles

SECTION: Pg. 33

LENGTH: 468 words


A BRITISH girl has been raped after accepting a lift from a stranger when she
became lost on holiday in Thailand.

Police on the paradise island of Phuket launched a manhunt after the 22-year-
old student, from Lanarkshire, was stripped, beaten and raped, then abandoned in
a graveyard on Tuesday evening during a religious festival.

The crime has angered locals, as it was carried out by a man wearing the white
festival costume meant to signify purity and sexual abstinence.

Pornsak Durongkavibulya, Commissioner-General of the Royal Thai Police,
yesterday ordered officers to arrest the rapist within seven days.

The student's description of the attacker matches police records of a man who
has already served time for a previous rape.

As well as releasing a photofit picture of the suspect, police set up roadblocks
to the mainland in an attempt to prevent him leaving.

The student, who only arrived with her boyfriend two days before the attack,
walked into town on her own to watch a fire-walking ceremony at a local shrine.
Her boyfriend stayed in their hotel because he felt ill.

Police Captain Nakorn Sangthong said: 'She was alone until 10.30pm and got lost
on her way back to the hotel. A Thai man came by on a motorcycle and offered
help.' The woman told police she thought he was a motorcycle taxi driver and
asked him to take her to her hotel.

But he took her to a Chinese cemetery, where he began to fondle her.

Mr Sangthong added: 'She defended herself, but the man forced her to take off
her clothes. He punched her, once on the chin and then several times in the
stomach, before raping her.' After her ordeal, she pleaded with him to take her
to a public place, but he refused. She was discovered by a middle-aged Thai
couple who took her to police. She was then taken to hospital.

Speaking from their hotel last night, her boyfriend said: 'We don't want to talk
about it. Obviously, it is very upsetting for her.' Police Lieutenant Colonel
Wichai Boonruen said they were confident of catching the man. He said: 'Because
of the rain and the darkness, the victim remembered hardly anything to identify
him.

'Fortunately, we found her underwear with his fingerprints on it. We also found
what may be some of his hair on the ground. She told us she pulled his hair in
the struggle.' Two men were arrested, but were released when the woman confirmed
they were not responsible.

Last night, the victim's father said the family were in shock. He said: 'I can't
believe this has happened. We've just spoken to her on the telephone and she
tells us that she is okay now and recovering from what happened.

'Her boyfriend is taking it really badly. He blames himself for not going out
with her.

'We're all just hoping the culprit can be caught.'


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SUSPECT: PHOTOFIT PICTURE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       October 9, 2000, Monday Edition 1

Terrorist in jail attack

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 86 words


   AN IRA terrorist was savagely beaten in a North East jail's TV room by
another inmate claiming to be an ex-paratrooper.

Darren Mullholland, 21, jailed for plotting a bomb attack in London, could be
scarred for life after suffering severe face injuries, including a broken nose
and jaw.

The attack happened as he watched TV at Durham's high security Frankland Prison.

His attacker, a 6ft, 17-stone inmate who said he was going to "have" Mulholland,
is now serving weeks of solitary confinement.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2000 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 13, 2000

Arab-Israeli violence in dramatic escalation
 Palestinians say Israeli rocket attacks in retaliation for mob murder of two
soldiers is'act of war' - meanwhile, a US warship is targeted in a terrorist
suicide bomb attack

SECTION: Agency: AGENCY, Pg.40

LENGTH: 644 words


John Deane

THE renewed Middle East conflict escalated dramatically yesterday with Israeli
helicopters attacking targets close to the base of the Palestinian leader Yasser
Arafat in swift retaliation for the mob killing of two Israeli soldiers.

The latest developments sparked Palestinian allegations that Israel had, in
effect, declared war on the Palestinian people.

The violence left Western peace efforts in tatters, leaving little hope that
Israel and the Palestinians could negotiate a truce and bring an end to the
two-week long bloodshed, during which at least 94 people have died, the vast
majority Palestinians.

And the violence, coupled with what appeared to be a suicide bomb attack on a US
warship at a Yemeni port which may have killed up to 16 American sailors,
sparked fears of a major global economic downturn, after the price of crude oil
soared and stock markets dropped deep into the red.

The escalation began earlier yesterday when an angry mob stormed a Palestinian
police station in the West Bank town of Ramallah, where two Israeli reserve
soldiers were being held after having made a wrong turn.

The crowd beat and stabbed the two men to death and dumped the bloodied,
mutilated bodies into the street.

Italy's Mediaset TV showed one of the soldiers, dangling upside down, apparently
attached to a rope. The crowd stood below waving fists and cheering.

The body was dropped down into the compound, where the mob stomped on the corpse
and beat it with the broken bars of a window grill.

The killing of the two soldiers incensed Israelis. Israeli Prime Minister Ehud
Barak called it a "cold-blooded lynching".

Mr Barak responded quickly, tightly sealing Palestinian towns, amassing troops
near Ramallah and unleashing helicopter gunships.

The helicopters launched rocket attacks on a building next to Mr Arafat's
residence in Gaza City, housing his elite Force 17 bodyguard unit.

One of the missiles struck just 50 yards from Mr Arafat's headquarters, with the
Palestinian leader inside the building during the attack, his aides said.

A defiant Mr Arafat later toured the targeted sites and returned to his
headquarters to cheers from a waiting crowd, flashing a victory sign.

"Our people don't care, and don't hesitate to continue their march toward
Jerusalem," Mr Arafat said.

In the nearby town of Beit Lahia, rockets hit the headquarters of Tanzim, the
armed wing of Mr Arafat's Fatah faction. Six Palestinian navy boats were also
destroyed, the Palestinian news agency Wafa said.

In Ramallah, Israeli rockets struck the police station where the Israelis had
been killed hours earlier, reducing it to rubble. The Palestinian TV
headquarters were also hit.

Palestinian reports said at least 12 people were injured. In a second wave,
about two hours later, the helicopters returned, attacking radio transmitters in
the town.

"This is a declaration of war - a crazy war," Saeb Erekat, a senior Palestinian
official, said of some of the worst Israeli-Palestinian violence since the 1967
Middle East war.

United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan cut short a Lebanon visit to deal
with the crisis.

"I appeal to all - leaders and citizens alike - to stop and think about what
they are doing today and what kind of tomorrow they want for their children," Mr
Annan said in a statement. "I urge you to opt for restraint."

Yesterday afternoon, former Israeli prime minister Shimon Peres, touring
European capitals to try to explain the Israeli position, held talks lasting 55
minutes with Prime Minister Tony Blair.  Mr Peres defended Israel's actions. He
said there had been no civilian targets and "to the best of our knowledge no
civilian person was hit" in the helicopter attacks. "Israel had to react after
the terrible ... lynchings of the soldiers. The reaction was immediate but
restrained," he claimed.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2000 Western Morning News

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                October 15, 2000

Focus: Middle East crisis: West's weak link is terror target: The attacks on USS
Cole and the British embassy signal the rise of 'asymmetric warfare'

BYLINE: Brian Whitaker in Aden and Martin Bright

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 556 words


THE destroyer USS Cole was a formidable sight as it sailed into Aden Harbour.
With a crew of nearly 300, it was heading to the Gulf to support the UN embargo
against Iraq.

The 8,600-ton ship is the length of a football field and carries long-range
cruise missiles and air-defence weapons.

Not long after its unannounced arrival at 8.45am, it was surrounded by vessels
involved in mooring, refuelling and waste removal.

Another small boat approached from across the harbour, a motorised rubber
dinghy. Witnesses saw two men standing in it, as if in salute. Seconds later
they died as an explosion blew a 40ft by 40ft hole in the Cole, killing 17
American sailors and injuring 37.

The attack was the latest example of what defence experts call 'asymmetrical
warfare' where instead of fighting the mighty US on its own terms, its enemies
have gone for its Achilles' heel.

Their weapons are harbour boats and truck-bombs, their targets military
compounds and support facilities.

The terrorists who found the Cole's weakness had advance knowledge of the ship's
stop in Aden and an intimate understanding of refuelling procedures.

Yemen has been seriously embarrassed by the attack, and annoyed the US by
claiming it was an accident.

Security in the port area is not particularly tight. It is likely the suicide
bombers were employed somewhere in the port area and could have obtained jobs
there specifically to carry out the attack. In any case, the operation would
have taken some time to prepare - which suggests that it was anti-American and
not specifically connected to the current Israeli-Palestinian situation.

The attackers could have received advance warning of the warship's arrival from
within the port, though it is equally possible that they got the information
about its movements from watching shipping elsewhere.

FBI agents arrived in Aden yesterday to investigate the deadliest attack on the
US military since the 1996 bombing of Air Force barracks in Saudi Arabia that
killed 19.

Last week an organisation calling itself the Army of Mohammed - an extremist
group previously known to be active only in Chechnya and Dagestan - claimed
responsibility for the attacks on the Cole and on the British embassy in the
Yemen capital of Sana'a, about 200 miles from Aden, on Friday. Foreign Secretary
Robin Cook said a bomb may have been thrown into the embassy's grounds. Windows
were shattered but nobody was hurt.

A call, purporting to be from the Army of Mohammed, was taken by British-based
Islamist Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed of the al-Muhajiroun movement, which is
committed to a world Islamic state. He told The Observer: 'We endorse any
attacks against Americans occupying Arab lands or Israel, but we have no
connection with this.'

Omar said the man he spoke to did not give his name but spoke a verse from the
Koran: 'Whoever commits aggression against you, retaliate by the same manner.'

Meanwhile, a close associate of Osama bin Laden urged Muslims worldwide to
attack US and Israeli targets to avenge the deaths of Palestinians killed in the
Middle East crisis. Ayman el Zawahri, who was found guilty in absentia of the
1981 assassination of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, faxed his call for jihad
or holy war, to the Islamabad bureau of a television station.


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                October 15, 2000

Focus: Middle East crisis: West's weak link is terror target: The attack on the
US ship in Yemen has reinforced wariness in America about its role as the
policeman of the world

BYLINE: Ed Vulliamy

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 560 words


THE BRONZE statue unveiled at a ceremony yesterday in Norfolk, Virginia - home
base to the USS Cole - represented homecoming: a mother enveloping a young man
in the warm embrace of her arms.

But the ceremony was gnarled into a different event: a commemoration for the 17
lives lost in Thursday's attack on the ship, with the commander of the base
reminding his audience 'we still live in a dangerous world There are still
people who do not respect freedom, human life and the rule of law'.

What the speech meant, of course, is that the nightmare of America's Achilles
heel is back; another toll of US dead in the Middle East is casting its shadow
over the nation - the highest since 19 were killed at an Air Service base in
Saudi Arabia in 1996. The US election campaign has been marked by a wariness
about America's role as world policeman, and the burdens it entails. The deaths
off the Yemeni coast only intensify a national anguish about the wisdom of what
George Bush, during Wednesday's TV debate, called 'spreading ourselves too
thin'.

As more US investigators arrived in Yemen yesterday to begin their search for
the killers, the attack seemed to have defied even the most strident of
defences. The ship is protected by advanced electronic systems and crewed by
people trained to the highest level in repulsion of an attack. It emerged
yesterday that three extra crew had been added to the watch on the day of the
assault.

Backstage in Washington yesterday there was a debate among officials over how
the ship's security was breached, and on the wisdom of using the port of Aden
for refuelling in the first place, set as it is in a country bristling with
anti-American feeling and itself a base for terrorist groups.

A State Department report earlier this year described Yemen as 'a safe haven for
terrorist groups' because of lax security procedures.

Pentagon officials were at first anxious to point an accusatory finger at the
State Department, saying the US embassy in Yemen was responsible for security,
but State retorted that the Naval attache tasked with decision over refuelling
and other matters reports to the Defence Department.

Nevertheless, sources have indicated that the USS Cole was lucky. The attack
came closer than has been admitted to sinking the ship and claiming a higher
death toll.

Officials at the FBI, which will spearhead the operation, told The Observer that
it retained 'an open mind' over the much-vaunted assumption that the attack was
the work of the Afghan-based terrorist leader Osama bin Laden.

Although the FBI team includes a unit that has worked exclusively on bin Laden,
the attack bears as much resemblance to the Ryad and Beirut attacks on US
military installations - which were the work of Lebanese and Syrian-based groups
close to Hizbollah - as to the embassy bombings in East Africa in 1988.The
investigation will focus first on the unnamed Yemeni contractor hired to refuel
US warships in Aden, because the attack came at the time of a refuelling
operation.

It emerged yesterday that US intelligence picked up a warning of a possible
attack in the Gulf area a month ago, but that the signals were too vague to act
upon. The warnings, from the Arab world, 'were not specific enough,' an
intelligence source told the New York Times and it 'got put on the shelf'.


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            October 16, 2000, Monday

FATHER AND SON IN ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 141 words


A father and son were savagely beaten and a 71-year-old woman showered with
glass in an attack by 20 youths.

The violence erupted after an airgun pellet shattered an upstairs bedroom window
of a house in Barmouth Close, Short Heath, Willenhall, Walsall.

When the father and his son went from the property to see what had happened
outside they were attacked by a gang of up to 20 youths.

During the struggle a passing motorist and his wife noticed what was happening
and stopped to help.

But the gang began to attack the couple's car and smashed the front passenger
window, showering their elderly mother with glass.

Acting Inspector Marcus Ibbs-George, of Walsall Police, said the father and son
suffered bruising, grazing and cuts as a result of the assault and received
medical treatment. The pensioner was not hurt.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 18, 2000

Mystery of the fatal 115mph train crash;Police rule out terrorist bomb attack on
rail line despite threat

BYLINE: Roy Rogers Industry Correspondent And Annette Mccann

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 868 words


RAIL safety inspectors are today expected to focus on either track or wheel
failure as the probable cause of yesterday's high-speed train disaster which
claimed four lives and left more than 30 people injured.

They could find no explanation late last night, but police ruled out a
possibility that terrorists may have been involved in an attack on the 12.10pm
GNER InterCity service from King's Cross to Leeds.

It left the line near Hatfield in Hertfordshire at 115mph, resulting in the
train being cut in two pieces, with seven of its nine rear carriages derailed.

Police said an unspecified terrorist threat had been made about the same stretch
of track just two days before, but Chief Constable Paul Acres of Hertfordshire
police said: "We had investigated the potential that this was caused by an
explosion: this has now been ruled out. There were early indications from
witnesses that they heard the sound of an explosion which we now believe was the
sound of the impact."

He confirmed that there "were two calls at the weekend suggesting bombs may have
been placed on the line", but added: "The wreckage has been extensively searched
by the anti-terrorist branch of New Scotland Yard together with explosive
ordinance disposal experts and we are now satisfied there was no explosion."

The Government has ordered an urgent report into the crash, which is to be
investigated by the Railway Inspectorate.

Assistant Chief Constable Paul Nicholas, of the British Transport Police, said
the scene would be kept secure overnight while the bodies were removed, and a
thorough search made of the site this morning.

TV actress Anna Brecon, better known as Lady Tara Thornfield in Emmerdale, was
one of those who crawled from the derailed first class carriage. The actress was
travelling with her mother.

At hospital in Welwyn Garden City, she said: "I was incredibly lucky. I was
aware of a lot of glass and dust flying around near my face. The window beside
me had completely smashed. The train was dragging along the ground and the
gravel came into the window, spraying in until we stopped.

"We were incredibly lucky to get just a few cuts and bruises." There was a cut
on her face, but it did not need stitches.

The train carried 200 passengers, and more than 80 walking wounded were ferried
away from the scenes of debris and wreckage.

One survivor described how she at first thought a bomb had gone off as the
train's middle coaches left the line as it reached a speed of more than 100mph
some 20 miles north of London.

A Railtrack director, Mr Nick Pollard, said it was important for public
confidence in rail travel to establish quickly the cause.

Mr Pollard told BBC 2's Newsnight there was "absolutely no reason" to believe
the train was travelling too fast. He confirmed that the track was severely
damaged, but that was only to be expected following such a major accident. The
track stretch was not regarded as a vandalism hotspot.

GNER chief executive Christopher Garnett said a trainee driver was in the cab
alongside a fully qualified driver.

The crash, coming less than a fortnight after the first anniversary of the
Paddington disaster, in which 31 people were killed, has sharply refocused
attention on Britain's rail safety record.

It is understood deputy Prime Minister John Prescott, whose departmental
responsibilities include transport, will cut short a visit to China, where he
has been on a trade mission, to lead the Government's response to the

incident.

Unlike most recent crashes, there has been no suggestion of "driver error". Nor
has any evidence come to light to suggest vandals were to blame, though they
have been known to operate on this stretch of line.

According to Railtrack, the train was on the correct line, the signalling
equipment appeared to have been working normally, and the track had been checked
the previous day.

With no other train around, and the point of derailment apparently located at or
behind the central buffet car, Health and Safety Executive investigators will
pay particular attention to the condition of the wheels and bogeys of the
relatively modern InterCity 225 train.

It appears that neither of the two safety systems being considered in the wake
of previous fatal accidents would have prevented yesterday's accident.

The cheaper Train Protection Warning System (TPWS) operates only when trains are
travelling below 70mph, while the ''fail-safe" Automatic Train Protection (ATP)
over-rides only those

at first thought a bomb had gone off as the train's middle coaches left the line
as it reached a speed of more than 100mph some 20 miles north of London.

A Downing Street spokesman said: "The Prime Minister is obviously deeply
saddened at the death and injuries caused by this accident, and all his thoughts
are with the families and friends of those involved."

Conservative leader William Hague also extended his sympathies to the injured
and the relatives of those killed.

A Buckingham Palace spokes-man said the Queen and Duke of Edinburgh had sent
messages of sympathy to victims and their families via Lord Macdonald.

Injured: actress Anna Brecon

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                October 19, 2000

Attacks on me are terrorism, says Mandelson

BYLINE: By Desmond McCartan

LENGTH: 198 words


THE Tories have criticised Peter Mandelson for comparing attacks by his
political opponents on him with acts of terrorism.

Mr Mandelson was quoted by The Independent newspaper: "What they want to do is
to make me so controversial and destabilised that I am permanently politically
disabled and taken out of the frame on Europe."

The Northern Ireland Secretary added: "It is a piece of terrorism."

His reported comments came amid the continuing controversy over the memoirs of
former Treasury Minister Geoffrey Robinson.

Mr Mandelson reportedly told friends that the allegations levelled against him
were part of a smear campaign.

But Andrew Mackay, his Tory counterpart, said he was "concerned and surprised"
at the reference to terrorism.

He told Mr Mandelson in a letter that he should withdraw what he termed "ill
-judged comments".

"No matter how unpleasant these personal attacks upon you by your Labour
colleagues must be, I am sure that, as Northern Ireland Secretary, you must
surely be aware that equating them to terrorism will cause great offence and
hurt to the many thousands of real victims of terrorism in Northern Ireland and
elsewhere."


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 25, 2000

Threat of more terror attacks:US forces put on maximum alert as bin Laden is
blamed for Cole bombing

BYLINE: Ian Bruce Geopolitics Editor

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 652 words


AMERICAN forces throughout the Middle East are on maximum alert today after
intelligence warnings about new terrorist threats in the wake of the suicide
bombing of the destroyer USS Cole in Aden harbour two weeks ago.

All US service personnel in Bahrain and Qatar in the Persian Gulf and air force
crews at Incirlik air base in Turkey were ordered to step up security as a
precaution, after the Pentagon received "specific threats" targeting military
assets in the region.

Bahrain is the headquarters for the US Central Command's naval forces and for
the US 5th Fleet. Qatar houses a limited number of air force crews.

All US warships in Gulf harbours put to sea immediately after the surprise
attack on the Cole, which left 17 sailors dead and 39 injured.

Incirlik plays host to US and RAF bomber and reconnaissance aircraft policing
the "no-fly" zone imposed over northern Iraq after the 1991 Gulf War. Britain
has 160 men and four Jaguar reconnaissance jets on site.

The finger of blame for the suicide attack on the Cole is pointing ever more
firmly towards the world's most wanted terrorist, Saudi dissident Osama bin
Laden.

Bin Laden heads and funds a global Islamic terrorist network known as Al Qaeda,
which is believed to be responsible for the bombing of US embassies in Kenya and
Tanzania in 1998. The simultaneous attacks left 258 people dead and almost 5000
wounded.

FBI sources who were on the scene of the USS Cole incident within four hours of
the explosion say early examination of bomb fragments has revealed similarities
in materials and construction to the devices used two years ago in East Africa.
Investigators are privately convinced that the attack was planned by Al Qaeda,
Arabic for "The Base".

Operating from his mountain stronghold, bin Laden controls the purse-strings of
Islamic terrorism world-wide. He continues to rake in cash donations from Saudi
and Gulf businessmen hedging their bets against fundamentalist takeovers in
their countries.

His main income, however, comes from acting as middleman and fixer for Afghan
narcotic producers, from whom he is estimated to rake off up to £500m a year.
The money is used to set up front companies in Yemen, Sudan, and Albania and to
fund mujahideen training camps at Rishkor, Khost, and Laghman in Afghanistan.

Russia is certain that some of the cash and hardcore Islamic fighters from the
camps have been funnelled to help the Chechens in their ongoing resistance to
Moscow's occupation. Others, they claim, are helping to destabilise states
across the Caucasus.

Albania, bin Laden's toehold in Europe, has also become a conduit for drugs and
dissidents. Nato's intelligence agencies fear that a number of cells have
already been set up across the continent via the lawless Balkan state.

The West's main problem, if proof can be found to tie the Saudi militant to the
latest atrocity, is how to hit back. The last effort involved launching £50m
worth of cruise missiles against his Afghan hideouts two weeks after the East
African embassy bombs.

A few Pakistani and Kashmiri volunteers were killed or injured, several missiles
went astray and ended up helping China improve its guidance technology, and
others alienated the Arab world by destroying a Sudanese chemical factory which
apparently produced powdered baby milk rather than biological weapons.

Bin Laden, who was tipped off about the missile strike in advance by Pakistan's
ISI intelligence agency, has now surrounded himself with between 4000 and 5000
guards, many veterans of the war with the Soviets in the1980s.

Short of the Taliban handing him over to face justice, it would take a daring
and almost necessarily suicidal commando raid to end his reign. Contingency
plans for a direct assault on his headquarters have been drawn up by both the
Pentagon and Britain, but have so far been considered too risky.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                October 26, 2000

Mum's Robbie show sniper attack terror

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 479 words

DATELINE: Bolton



A BOLTON mother-of-two underwent surgery today after she was shot in the neck on
her way home from a Robbie Williams concert.

Michelle George, from Breightmet, received a deep wound in the nape of her neck
after the gunman opened fire at close range from a car.

The 31-year-old was taken to the Royal Bolton Hospital after the incident, which
happened in Walkden shortly after midnight yesterday.

She had surgery to have the airgun pellet removed today, but the surgery could
leave her right arm and face numb for several weeks because the wound is close
to vital arteries and nerves.

Michelle, her 27-year-old sister Alison George, and friends Jackie Isherwood and
Louise Butterworth, who are all from Breightmet, had enjoyed the concert at
Manchester Arena.

The event finished at 11pm, but the last train to Bolton from Victoria station
left at 10.50pm, leaving the women stranded.

They decided to catch a train to Walkden from where they planned to phone for a
lift or get a taxi home.

As they walked along High Street in Walkden towards the telephone box the four
women noticed a car parked nearby, but thought nothing of it.

As they approached the Curry 2000 restaurant, they heard a popping noise and
Michelle was suddenly covered in blood.

Alison, who has two sons, realised the shot had come from the nearby parked car
when she spotted a man in the back of the vehicle suddenly closing the window.

She said: "The car didn't even set off quickly, but drove away slowly. The whole
incident was very surreal and I am still in total shock. Why would anyone get a
kick out of doing something so senseless?

"We are also very annoyed with the lack of communication between Manchester
Arena and the train station which left us stranded in the first place. The last
train to Bolton should have left after the concert and not before the end."

Michelle, who works at a solicitor's in Bolton, is trying to keep in good
spirits and was delighted to receive a visit in hospital from her two sons,
12-year-old Christopher and Daniel, aged nine.

Speaking from her hospital bed in the High Dependency Unit, Michelle said: "I'm
still very shocked. The attack was just mindless and I can't understand it
because I've not done anything to hurt anyone.

"It was the first concert I'd ever been to and I had an excellent night before
this happened.

"It was just lucky Alison was asking me for some change for the phone when it
happened as I turned towards her and the pellet hit me in the neck -- otherwise
it would have been my face.

"The doctors tell me it could have been much worse. "

The car involved in the attack was an old silver Volkswagen Golf and two men are
believed to have been in the vehicle.

Police are investigating the incident. Anyone with information should call
Swinton Police on 0161 872 5050.


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2000 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 27, 2000, Friday

MAN IN STREET KNIFE ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 164 words


THUGS held a knife to a man's throat and made off with hundreds of pounds worth
of gold jewellery.

It happened as the 19-year-old Coventry man was walking along Freeman's Way in
Greyfriars Green, in the city centre, at about 3.30pm yesterday.

He was approached from behind by a man who held a knife to his throat.

The attacker was joined by another man and the pair ran off in the direction of
Warwick Row.

Items stolen included a gold ring set with a small diamond worth pounds 70, a
gold necklace worth pounds 350, and a gold bracelet worth pounds 120.

The first attacker was white, in his early 20s, of medium build and with a white
cricket style hat with the rim pulled down over his eyes and a shiny black
waist-length coat.

His accomplice was also white, 19 to 20, 6ft tall and skinny with a long thin
face. He was wearing a grey waist-length jacket, blue jeans and trainers.

Anyone with information is asked to phone police on 024 7653 9010.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           October 28, 2000, Saturday

ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 52 words


A 16-year-old Dudley girl was forced to the ground and robbed of her mobile
phone, jewellery and coat by three teenage girls in a vicious street attack.

The attackers pulled up in a Ford Escort and attacked the girl when she refused
to hand over her Nokia 510 mobile phone in Baptist End Road, Netherton.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 30, 2000

Doomsday scenario of terrorist plague attack

BYLINE: Jim Mclean

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 583 words


A BIO-TERRORISM attack 4500 miles away in the United States would lead to scores
of deaths in the UK in less than 48 hours, according to safety analysts.

The £2m Topoff civil defence exercise involving the imaginary release of a
plague aerosol in Denver, Colorado, warns of the global impact of such an attack
or accidental release of deadly germs.

UK authorities who are studying the four-day-long Doomsday scenario played out
by American military, medical and civil defence planners have moved to reassure
the public.

But terrorism expert Professor John Erickson, of the Department of Defence
Studies at Edinburgh University, says the risks of biological weapons being used
by terrorists is now a distinct possibility.

Calling for greater public awareness, similar to the US, he warned yesterday:
"We are treading a fine line between safety and catastrophe. We are all in the
frontline."

Next month, a national symposium on bioterrorism in Washington will hear a full
analysis of the exercise and the potential global impact of a terrorist aerosol
attack in somewhere as inconspicuous as a public library in Denver.

Dr Donald Henderson, director of the John Hopkins Centre for Civilian Biodefence
Studies who is credited with leading the World Health Organisation's successful
fight to eradicate smallpox, says Middle East tensions and the collapse of the
Russian economy heighten dangers.

"It is just a matter of time until the United States or another country suffers
a significant bioterrorist attack. Stockpiles of deadly micro organisms in
Russia and Iraq continue to make many throughout the world uneasy," he said.

In an imaginary suicide attack, the Denver terrorist sprayed Yersinia pestis,
the bacteria that causes plague, sparking the exercise that monitored the
extreme risks of person to person spread of sickness.

Despite one million people being ordered to stay at home, thousands panicked and
caused hospital chaos while many more raced to flee Denver - crowding flights
from the international airport and so spreading the plague as far afield as the
UK and Japan.

In the exercise, it took the authorities three days after the plague had been
sprayed to realise the rising tide of flu-like coughs and fevers was in fact
more serious.

As hospital staff fall sick, and antibiotics and ventilators become scarce, a
travel ban is ordered.

By the end of day one of fighting the plague, there have been 783 cases with 123
deaths. The public are told that the disease is spread by being within six feet
of an infected person.

On day two cases are reported in the UK and Japan. Both Japan and the World
Health Organisation request technical assistance. Hospitals and morgues are
full. By the end of the day, there are 1871 plague cases and 389 deaths.

By day three, the US health service collapses. The state of Colorado faces
isolation, food and medical shortages. By the close of the final day of the
exercise the global toll is put at more than 4000 cases and 2000 deaths.

The Home Office and Immigration Department declined to comment. However,
Strathclyde Chief Constable John Orr, Scotland's representative on the national
police anti-terrorism committee, said the risk of chemical or biological attack
was almost negligible.

He added: "There is absolutely no complacency towards this issue. All the
emergency services, health boards and local authorities are aware of the
significant challenge such an attack would pose."

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: HOW IT MIGHT BE: Dustin Hoffman in a scene from the film Outbreak which
dealt with a similar scenario of a deadly virus on the loose

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                November 6, 2000

Bonfire night terror attack on police, firefighters

BYLINE: Pete Oliver (author email poliver@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 79 words

DATELINE: Bolton



BONFIRE night thugs rained bottles down on firefighters and policemen who were
called out to deal with a blaze.

The trouble flared as groups of youths caused a nuisance at the Queen Anne pub
bonfire on High Street, Little Lever, late yesterday.

When officers were called to the scene bottles were thrown and a police car was
slightly damaged. Police chiefs ordered the pub's early closure at 10.25pm. Two
people were arrested for public order offences.


LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2000 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton and Hove

                                November 7, 2000

Ambulance boss's gay attack terror

BYLINE: Phil Mills (author email phil.mills@argus-btn.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 440 words

DATELINE: brighton__hove



A senior officer with St John Ambulance was attacked and robbed in a homophobic
assault.

Terry Wing, a divisional commander in Brighton and a homosexual, described how
he fought off the attacker and urged other gays to report crimes "without fear
of being ridiculed."

He had withdrawn money from a Barclays cashpoint machine in King Place, off
North Street, Brighton, and was about to drive away when he was approached by a
skinhead in his mid-twenties.

The man first asked for a light and then offered sex for GBP 40. When Mr Wing
declined, the robber's accomplice opened the passenger door and dragged Mr Wing
to the passenger seat.

The accomplice demanded money but Mr Wing tried to escape.

Mr Wing said: "I was lashing out with my feet and hands, banging the horn, and
screaming and shouting help, help.

"I was told one had a knife and he would stab me if I didn't shut up.

"I continued fighting and screaming at the top of my voice. They managed to get
my wallet and ran off shouting homophobic phrases.

"My face, nose and neck were marked from the force used to hold me down.

"I honestly thought they were going to kill me. I've never been so frightened in
my life."

Mr Wing drove to the John Street police station. He said: "The attitude of
everyone at the station was impeccable and I would urge any gay person involved
in any assault to report the occurrence to the police immediately without fear
of being ridiculed."

He praised inquiry officer Roland Galway, who cancelled his stolen credit cards,
a policewoman who took his statement and a male sergeant who supervised.

He said: "They spoke to me and treated me in a manner that quickly put me at
ease.

"I was surprised how relaxed they made me feel as I was expecting a degree of
attitude. Thankfully, changes have been made.

"My hero was Roland, who made sure this was recorded as a homophobic attack."

Mr Wing complained he was offered no follow-up support for three days and
suggested there might be scope for launching a Gay Victim Support agency.

Detective Inspector Graham Bartlett, head of the new Brighton and Hove
anti-victimisation unit, which deals with homophobic crime, said: "We are
pleased Mr Wing was content with the service he received "We would encourage
other people to report crimes.

"They have nothing to fear about the reception they will receive.

"All incidents are investigated thoroughly and all victims are treated
sympathetically."


LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2000 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                November 8, 2000

Police chiefs fear Christmas terrorist attack on mainland

BYLINE: Deborah Summers Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 658 words


FEARS of an Omagh-style attack on mainland Britain this Christmas grew yesterday
as Sinn Fein President Gerry Adams attended peace talks with the Prime Minister.

Attempts to break the deadlock in the Ulster peace process resulted in a "full
discussion about the outstanding issues" a Downing Street spokesman said.

However, as diplomacy continued at No 10, security chiefs were preparing for the
worst. Scotland Yard launched a high profile campaign warning of the threat of a
"butcherous" act of terrorism in the run-up to the festive period.

A set of eight posters urging the public to be on guard are to be displayed
across London but police fear that dissident Republicans could strike anywhere
on the mainland.

Assistant Commissioner Specialist Operations David Veness revealed that there
had been more than 100 bomb threats since last December.

He said at least 50 of them could be attributed to dissident Republicans and he
warned that he believed the terrorists were now in possession of an armoury of
weapons including home-made and manufactured explosives, incendiary devices and
battlefield weapons from Eastern Europe.

Mr Veness said there was a real threat that a car bomb could be used by the
terrorists.

"This is not hypothesis," he said. "The most worrying form of attack - and it
brings back the spectre of Omagh - is a large vehicle bomb in a city centre with
all the butchery that entails."

The warning follows three attacks by dissident Republicans since June.

On June 1, a bomb exploded on London's Hammersmith Bridge; in July a device was
discovered on a railway track in the capital and in September a rocket missile
was launched at the MI5 building in Vauxhall, central London.

Mr Adams arrived for his meeting in Downing Street at 11.15am against the
backdrop of republicans considering a legal challenge to First Minister David
Trimble's ban on Sinn Fein Ministers Bairbre de Brun and Martin McGuinness
taking part in North-South Council summits.

Mr Trimble took the controversial step in protest to Sinn Fein's approach to
decommissioning. The First Minister wanted the IRA to restart talks on
disarmament with General John de Chastelain's decommissioning body as soon as
possible, claiming it had been necessary to use sanctions to "bring the weapons
issue into close focus".

Following the talks, the Sinn Fein president said he had had a "good meeting"
with the Prime Minister. "I'm hopeful in the next short while that we will see
some of these matters resolved," he said. But he warned: "I am concerned that
the situation will become untenable in a very short period of time. We all know
that December is a short month."

Mr Adams said the impasse threatened to drag on until January adding: "If it
isn't resolved long before then we will be in a serial crisis."

The Sinn Fein president also thanked out-going US President Bill Clinton for his
help in the peace process. I think we will all miss Bill Clinton. I think people
in Ireland will miss Bill Clinton.

"The out-going president has shown leadership in terms of how peace processes
are assisted. I hope that's become institutionalised."

Mr Adams added he would be consulting with colleagues early next week to see
whether legal moves should go ahead.

A Downing Street spokesman described the meeting as an "important confidence
building measure".

He said: "We are working hard to see how we can find a way forward."

Meanwhile, the Government yesterday announced lump sum payments for RUC widows
whose husbands were killed as a result of terrorist activity before 1982.

It follows the publication of the Steele report that recommended payments of
more than £11m over three years to help widows, disabled officers and families.

Widows will received £1000 a year for each year their partner has been deceased.
The fund will also help seriously injured police officers and retired officers.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           November 12, 2000, Sunday

IRA may help rebel terrorists carry out attacks

BYLINE: Liam Clarke and Vincent Kearney

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 783 words


THE Provisional IRA is considering helping republican dissidents to carry out
attacks in Britain and Northern Ireland.

IRA threats against dissidents have been relaxed since David Trimble, the Ulster
Unionist leader, excluded Sinn Fein ministers from crossborder meetings,
according to senior security sources.

The IRA and Sinn Fein leadership believes the Stormont executive will soon be
suspended to allow a review of the Good Friday agreement. It is in this context
of deadlock that the Provisionals are relaxing their controls on dissidents, who
are planning to create disruption in Britain and Ireland in the run-up to
Christmas.

Until now the IRA has issued threats against dissident groups, believing that
terrorist attacks would destabilise the peace process and slow the withdrawal of
British troops. These threats are now being relaxed and IRA hardliners are being
told that they will not be penalised for assisting dissidents.

The Provisionals' leadership believes that attacks now would be a way of letting
off steam and bringing further political pressure on the British government. A
republican source said yesterday: "The thinking is that an explosion would focus
minds. It might get people round the table again."

Trimble's exclusion of Sinn Fein ministers from crossborder meetings is aimed at
forcing the IRA to begin decommissioning and contact General John de Chastelain,
chairman of the decommissioning body. The IRA's last contact with him was a
telephone call on June 25. Republican sources have indicated that the
organisation is prepared to resume contact and even carry out decommissioning
under certain conditions.

Senior British sources say those conditions, spelt out to Tony Blair and Peter
Mandelson, the secretary of state, include an amnesty for fugitive terrorists
and offices for Martin McGuinness and Gerry Adams, Sinn Fein's MPs, at
Westminster. The IRA also wants closures of army bases and the withdrawal of
more British troops to barracks.

Terrorists who escaped from prison after serving more than two years of their
sentences are free to return to Northern Ireland under a deal hammered out
between Blair and Adams. But IRA fugitives who have not served two years, or who
committed an offence while escaping, are liable to be rearrested and jailed for
up to two years.

British officials have told Sinn Fein that this arrangement cannot be changed by
political pressure, because the Northern Ireland director of public prosecutions
is independent and not subject to political direction. Instead, new legislation
for an amnesty would be required, causing political difficulties at Westminster.

Providing offices for Sinn Fein at Westminster is at the discretion of the
Speaker of the House of Commons. Betty Boothroyd, who retired as Speaker earlier
this year, strongly opposed the move because Sinn Fein would not take its seats
at Westminster. Michael Martin, her successor, may take a different view.

Anti-terrorist police on both sides of the Irish Sea have been placed on full
alert. At least two senior Scotland Yard officers have been warned that their
addresses are known to dissident republicans and that they are being targeted.
Scotland Yard detectives have also alerted store owners, rail companies and
water and electricity firms about a possible renewed bombing campaign by
dissident republicans.

David Veness, an assistant commissioner at the Metropolitan police, said there
had been more than 50 bomb threats from dissident republicans since last
December. He said the dissidents had weapons that included home-made and
manufactured explosives, incendiary devices and battlefield weapons from eastern
Europe.

"This is not hypothesis. The most worrying form of attack, bringing back the
spectre of Omagh, is a large vehicle bomb in a city centre with all the butchery
that involves," Veness said.

oThe RUC is investigating whether Billy Hutchinson, political spokesman for the
UVF, may have breached the terms of his early release from prison.

Since the loyalist feud erupted, Hutchinson has refused to condemn UVF violence
and has predicted further attacks.

Sending Hutchinson back to jail would almost certainly result in his party, the
PUP, which has supported Trimble in Stormont assembly votes, being suspended
from the administration.

Up to 40 other loyalists, including John White who represents the UDA, are also
under surveillance. The security services have brought in fraud squad officers
to investigate White's financial affairs.

Despite having no visible means of income, White lives in a Pounds 500,000 house
in north Down and also owns six houses on the Shankill.


LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                               November 13, 2000

Crowbar thugsin terror attack

BYLINE: By Paul James

SECTION: News;People;Others, Pg.2

LENGTH: 238 words


Daylight gang threaten businessman

A BUSINESSMAN and his friend were threatened by crowbar-wielding thugs in the
middle of Torquay town centre.

Shoppers watched in amazement as the gang of three then smashed windows at the
Ego menswear shop in Market Street.

Police are anxious to trace the offenders who were also armed with spanners and
wheelbraces.

They made their getaway in a red D-reg Astra hatchback driven by a fourth man at
about 12.30pm on Friday.

The 32-year-old businessman, who does not want to be named, was with a friend
when they were confronted outside the shop.

Police say the gang caused an estimated GBP 2,000 damage to the windows and
door.

A spokesman said the motive for the attack was not known.

One of the gang was said to be 5ft 9ins tall with a blackened right eye and a
graze on the right hand side of his face. He was wearing a dark top.

The second man was aged about 30 and 6ft 3ins tall with brown curly hair.

Tattoed

He had a swallow tattooed on his neck and was wearing a red fleece top. The
spokesman said he was of muscular build.

The third man was 6ft tall with a long flat nose which appeared to have been
previously broken. He had a large build and was wearing a black top.

The final member of the gang had a round face, clean complexion and was in his
late 20s to early 30s. He was wearing blue Adidas bottoms.

Anyone with information should contact Torquay Police.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2000 Herald Express

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                               November 14, 2000

ROBBERY BOYS' TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: By

SECTION: News;999;Theft, Pg.1

LENGTH: 302 words


Thugs hold teenagers up at knifepoint

POLICE are hunting three men who robbed two unsuspecting teenagers at knifepoint
as they walked along the main Torquay to Newton Abbot road.

The boys were badly shaken.

One theory is that the robbers may have been on drugs.

The incident began when the three men pulled up in a car and asked the local
youths for directions 'to Cornwalli.

One of the men then produced a flick knife and ordered the 16-year-olds to empty
their pockets.

At one stage he threatened to stab them.

When the teenagers handed over their wallets and mobile phones the robbers fled.

The car first sped off towards Torquay but then swung around and headed in the
Newton Abbot direction.

The blue Rover Metro - believed to have been stolen from the Bristol area on
Saturday afternoon - was later found by police on the M4 in Wiltshire.

A detailed forensic examination was carried out and some items were taken away
for further tests.

Teenagers

Det Con Mark Mitchell, in charge of the inquiry, said: 'The teenagers are fine
now but it was very traumatic for them.i

Det Insp Steve Turpin added: 'This must have been a very frightening experience
for the young lads. We are very anxious to hear from anybody who may have seen
the car.i

The attack happened near the Texaco garage in Torquay Road, Kingskerswell, at
12.45am on Sunday. One of the robbers was in his early 20s, of Asian appearance,
5ft 8in tall, slim with short dark hair. He spoke with a Bristol accent. A
second man was white with a fair complexion. He was 5ft 7in tall, fat and may
have had ginger facial hair. He wore a hooded top.

The police believe a third man was in the car, which had the registration number
F681 MFJ.

Anyone with information should contact Det Con Mitchell at Newton CID on 0990
777444.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2000 Herald Express

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               November 15, 2000

Scream mask terror attack
 GRABBED: Parents speak of daughter's ordeal

BYLINE: I-Cheng Chan

SECTION: News: 999, Pg.2

LENGTH: 421 words


THE parents of an 11-year-old Plymouth girl today spoke of the terrifying moment
when she was grabbed by two men - one wearing a Scream horror mask.

Julie and Martin Kendall, were horrified to learn their daughter had been
targeted by the men, one wearing a red bandana, the other in a mask similar to
that featured in the horror movie Scream.

They said their daughter was grabbed while walking to meet friends and have
warned others 'don't let it happen to you'.

Mr and Mrs Kendall, who do not want their daughter named, learned of the attack
via a phone call from the mother of one their daughter's friends.

Biting

Mr and Mrs Kendall are now calling for more to be done to raise awareness.

Their daughter was walking along Frogmore Avenue, towards The Mermaid pub, in
Eggbuckland, when she was grabbed by the men, between 5.50pm and 6pm on Tuesday,
November 7.

A large man wearing a red bandana grabbed her arms from behind. The other,
standing in front, was wearing a Scream-style mask. Both were wearing black
leather jackets.

The Eggbuckland Community College pupil escaped unhurt after biting the hand of
the man holding her and running off towards Austin Farm stores.

"We were shocked - and angry," said Mr Kendall, aged 34. "It is always in the
back of your mind that it could happen, but you just don't think it will.

"What scares us is it happened within walking distance, in a built-up area with
shops, traffic and people."

The couple also have a son aged 15 and a daughter aged seven.

Mr Kendall said: "We've always said don't talk to strangers. But you can't keep
your children locked in all the time."

Mrs Kendall, aged 35, said: "She was terrified. It's going to take time for her
to get over it."

She said her daughter will not go out after dark now, and can't sleep without a
light on. She returned to school this week after three days off.

Eggbuckland Community College and Austin Farm Primary School are to speak to
children, aged 10 to 12, about safety awareness.

Police are looking at possible links with an incident in which a woman was
stopped by two men in a car in the same area, around 6pm on Friday.

Pc Paul Coppola said house-to-house inquiries had been carried out, but said the
incident could have been a prank gone wrong. He said: "The girl was very
traumatised." Contact police on 0990 700400 quoting EL005327.

ATTACK SCENE: Frogmore Avenue, Eggbuckland Picture Lucy Duval EE45210A
TERRIFYING: An example of a mask similar to the one used in the movie Scream

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2000 Evening Herald

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          November 15, 2000, Wednesday

Wife of George Harrison tells of attack terror

BYLINE: Tim Jones

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 500 words


'There was blood on the walls. We were going to be murdered'

GEORGE HARRISON'S wife spoke yesterday of the terrifying moments when a crazed
attacker broke into their isolated Gothic mansion and tried to kill them.

At one point, Olivia Harrison told Oxford Crown Court, her husband was too weak
to continue the fight and she was convinced that they were going to die. Their
attacker, Michael Abram, 34, claimed that he was possessed by the former Beatle
and had been sent by God to kill him. Abram, from Merseyside, denies two charges
of attempted murder on grounds of temporary insanity.

Mrs Harrison did not once look at her attacker as she stood in the witness box
and told how she joined her husband in a fight to save their lives. Looking at
the jury, Mrs Harrison said she had been in bed with her husband when she heard
the "quite terrifying sound of broken glass from a downstairs room".

"I told George that someone had smashed windows and that someone was down there,
and he jumped out of bed and went to the gallery. While he was doing this, I
phoned the caretaker in the grounds, but there was no answer. So I telephoned
another member of staff and told them to call the police and did so myself."

Mrs Harrison, 52, said she saw her husband disappear into a downstairs room. "I
heard someone walking on the glass on the floor and it was a terrifying sound.
Then I heard a man screaming at the top of his voice, telling us to get down
there."

Mrs Harrison, who was accompanied to court by her son Dhani, 22, and
mother-in-law, added: "I saw a man running upstairs and then I saw him fighting
with my husband. I looked around for a weapon and found a brass poker."

Her husband was looking pale. "I have never seen him look like that. The man was
on top of him and George was trying to grab his wrists.

"I hit the man on top of his head several times and George was shouting 'get
him, get him'. Then I was knocked backwards on to the ground."

Mrs Harrison said she tried to grab Abram by his testicles but failed. She tried
to run into another room, only to be followed by Abram. "I could feel his hands
on my throat and we fell on the floor of the meditation area. I managed to get
away and noticed there was blood on the carpet and blood on the walls." She
added: "At this moment I realised we were going to be murdered."

Then she grabbed hold of a table lamp and started hitting Abram repeatedly on
the head. "The man seemed to slump and I told him to stop as I didn't want to
hit him any longer." Her husband told her to continue and she hit him harder.
"George was very weak and he tried to throw the knife away, but it just landed
on the cushion behind him. He could not move any more."

Then, she said, Abram grabbed the flex. "I thought he was going to strangle me,
so I threw away the lamp and ran out of the room. I felt I had to leave my
husband because I could do no more." The attack ended when police arrived and
restrained Abram.


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2000 Times Newspapers Limited

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                               November 16, 2000

Girls left in terror by attacks

SECTION: Crime: Attacks, Pg.2

LENGTH: 186 words


From Page One

Staffordshire Police said: "We are very concerned at the similarity of these two
attacks and others that have taken place in the last two weeks.

"They have both happened in and around Stoke-on-Trent, the descriptions are
similar, and in each case the attacker seems to like hiding in dark places where
there is vegetation.

"They are also similar in that there doesn't seem to be a reason for the
assaults, though so far there has been no suggestion there is a sexual motive.

"We understand there have been around seven in the last fortnight.

"In the Norton attack, the victim managed to strike the man so it is possible
that he may have suffered injuries."

In both cases last night, the victims described their attacker as white, about
6ft tall and of slim to medium build. He was wearing dark clothing - possibly a
black bomber jacket.

The woman in the first incident said the man was aged in his late 20s and had
short dark hair.

Anyone with information about the attacker is asked to call Staffordshire Police
on 01782 202555 or the confidential Crimestoppers hotline on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2000 The Sentinel

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 20, 2000, Monday

100 STITCHES FOR BRIT, 74 WHO FOUGHT OFF SHARK;
 ATTACKED DOC TELLS OF TERROR

BYLINE: ANDY LINES, US EDITOR, ROD CHAYTOR AND IVOR KEY

SECTION: 1 Edition; NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 433 words

HIGHLIGHT: BATTLE SCARS: Some of the wounds on Colin's leg after his dramatic
clash with the attacker, thought to be a blacktip shark (right) Pictures CHRIS
BOTT; BATTLER: Colin kicked the 5ft fish


A BRAVE British pensioner savaged by a shark was recovering last night with 100
stitches in his 30 wounds.

Retired family doctor Colin Shadforth, 74, was attacked while he swam off a
Florida beach. As his blood turned the sea red in a terrifying tussle, he kicked
the 5ft-long fish to escape its jaws. Then he coolly told other holidaymakers
how to give him first-aid.

Colin said last night that he had been swimming in water about 3ft deep when he
suddenly saw the shark and felt its teeth on his leg.

He went on: "It clamped down on me and wouldn't let go. It was a hell of a pain
and it didn't stop. It took my breath away.

"I was kicking and kicking and eventually I scrambled as best I could out of the
water."

He yelled to his friends Fritz and Rosemarie Hofmann, who were walking on the
beach at Bonita Springs on the state's Gulf coast.

Fritz said: "I thought he wanted to show me something when he shouted. He did -
the lacerations and puncture wounds on his leg. He was losing a lot of blood and
he'd gone very white.

"But because he's a doctor he knew exactly what to do."

Colin, from Market Rasen, Lincs, urged Rosemarie to run to a nearby apartment
complex's swimming pool for some towels.

When she returned, he explained to her and Fritz how they should use the towels
to staunch the flow of blood.

Then Colin asked another tourist John McGrath to telephone for an ambulance.

Rosemarie said: "He was very courageous as he told everyone what to do."

Colin was rushed to Lee Memorial Hospital in nearby Fort Myers.

Last night he was back with his wife Margaret in the holiday flat that he rents
every year.

And Colin, who has swum in the area for the past 20 years, vowed to go back into
the water once his wounds have healed. He declared: "I'm not going to let a
little shark bite stop me." George Larsen, manager of Colin's apartment building
said: "He is OK but in some pain and quite uncomfortable."

He added: "I've been here 18 years and this is the first time we've had a shark
attack. I know they are out there but they don't generally attack swimmers."

Colin is thought to have been the victim of a blacktip shark.

Marine researcher Bob Heuter said that migrating sharks are now "eating on the
run".

International Shark Attack File boss George Burgess said: "I don't think Dr
Shadforth was the intended target. It decided 'That's not what I'm after' and
was gone."

One of Colin's Lincolnshire neighbours said: "He is a keen swimmer and keeps
himself fit. Maybe that's what saved him."

a.lines@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               November 22, 2000

Attack terror

BYLINE: Gary Carter (author email gcarter@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 389 words

DATELINE: Blackpool



A YOUNG man was left with cuts to his face after being attacked by three men on
Foxhall Road, Blackpool, last week.

At around 9.55pm on November 10 the men approached the young man and demanded he
hand over his jacket.

One of the men produced a weapon, believed to be a knife of some kind and
started attacking him.

The three attackers ran off when a passer-by intervened but the youth sustained
cuts above his right eye.

The first attacker is described as Afro Caribbean, 6ft 3ins tall and aged
between 20-25 years. He was skinny with a skinhead haircut and spoke with a deep
voice. The second wore a green bubble jacket and the third wore a deer stalker
type hat.

A YOUTH stole an elderly lady's handbag in Lytham before pushing her to the
floor on November 11. He approached the lady at the front entrance of Liggard
Court, Mythop Road, at about 10.45am where the theft took place. The lady was
left on the floor until she was discovered by other residents.

He is described as being aged around 15, 5ft 7ins, proportionate build, mousy
blond hair and wearing a grey waist-length cloth-type coat.  AN ELDERLY
gentlemen had a close shave with a conman who claimed he was from a double
glazing company on November 10. The pensioner, from Carr Road, Kirkham, opened
his front door and the man walked past him saying he had come to measure for
double glazing ordered by his son.

He walked around the house measuring but the owner would not leave him
unaccompanied. When the resident refused to give a deposit the conman left.

The man was approximately 30 years old, 5ft 4ins, medium build with dark
coloured hair. He spoke with a Scottish accent and was wearing a black woolly
bobble hat, a blue boiler suit with paint stains, a black jumper and blue
gloves. He was driven off by a second man aged around 30 years.

AT 8pm on November 9, a 12-year-old boy was standing in a busy bus queue in
Abingdon Street, Blackpool, holding a distinctive box of toy figures.

Once he was on the bus two teenagers assaulted him, causing injuries, and stole
the model figures from the box. The first was aged around 14, 5ft tall with
short blond hair wearing a Reebok coat which was blue in the middle and red on
the sides. The second was aged 15, 5ft 1ins-5ft 3ins tall with short, black,
spiky hair.


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2000 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 23, 2000

SAUDI BRITONS HIT BY CAR BOMB;
Warning to 30,000 ex-pats after mystery new terror attack

BYLINE: Patrick Sawer

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 452 words



THE 30,000 Britons working in Saudi Arabia are on high alert today after a
second car bomb targeting British expatriates exploded in the capital Riyadh,
injuring three.

The three Britons were injured in the blast as their car drove through the city.

Britain has already advised its citizens working in Saudi Arabia to take extra
security precautions, including keeping a low profile, avoiding crowded places
and being careful when parking their cars. Most of them live in residential
compounds set aside for foreigners.

In a bomb attack on Friday, Christopher Rodway's car blew up within minutes of
him leaving home in Riyadh with his wife Jane. Mrs Rodway, 50, survived after
passers-by pulled her from the wreckage but her 47-year-old husband, a chief
engineer in the VIP section of Riyadh's military hospital, died of his wounds.

There is as yet no clear picture as to whether the blasts are the work of
anti-Western terrorists or lone individuals with a personal grudge against
Britons working in the oil-rich kingdom.

Bahrain's Gulf News Agency quoted a Saudi police official in Riyadh as saying
last night's explosion tore through the car as it drove along King Abdul Aziz
street.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We can confirm that there was a car explosion
in Riyadh at 1.05am local time (2205 GMT) in which three British nationals were
injured.

None of the injuries are thought to be life-threatening."

He said British consular staff were trying to get access to the Britons to offer
assistance.

The Saudi Okaz newspaper quoted Saudi deputy interior minister Prince Ahmed bin
Abdul Aziz as saying one man was in hospital with leg wounds, while the other
man and the woman were treated for minor injuries and discharged.

Prince Ahmed said an investigation has started to determine if the incident was
related to the blast that killed Mr Rodway. "Security authorities have started
their investigation to reveal the details of the case and to investigate any
link to the previous incident, especially since circumstances were similar and
so were the nationalities," Prince Ahmed said.

In the wake of Friday's explosion Saudi officials said personal motives, not
terrorism, were likely to be behind the blast. That blast came five weeks after
a bomb was thrown at the British embassy in neighbouring Yemen. No one was hurt
in that attack, which followed an apparent suicide bombing that crippled a US
destroyer in Aden.

There are several Islamic militant groups, mostly linked to terrorist Saudi
rebel Osama bin Laden, who have sworn to drive Westerners out of Saudi Arabia.

Their wrath is directed against nations which took part in the Gulf War.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2000 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               November 26, 2000

Germany braced for neo-Nazi onslaught: Stockpiles of arms stir fears of a switch
by Far Right to unlimited violence: Rise of terrorist attacks

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 168 words


* March 1998: During a raid, a special police commission in Nordrhein Westfalen
uncovered seven machine pistols, 11 rifles, three mines, four grenades, 12
detonators, six containers full of black gunpowder and about 8,000 rounds of
ammunition. The weapon collectorswere members of the paramilitary Stahlhelm, or
steel helmut.

* End of 1998: Bomb blew up the grave of the former chairman of the central
council of Jews, Heinz Galinski, in Berlin.

* March 1999: During a house search in Frankfurt am Oder a piece of rough paper
was discovered detailing a list of right-wing terrorist action plans.

* In 1999 alone, nine people died because of violent actions

by right-wing extremists. In

addition, 602 people were injured and there were 36 explosions and arson attacks
for which right- wing extremists were responsible

* July 2000 A bomb ripped through a walkway at Dusseldorf's railway station
injuring 10 eastern European immigrants returning from a German language lesson


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 27, 2000, Monday

ALERT ON TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 146 words


POLICE today launched a campaign warning the public about possible terrorist
attacks over Christmas.

David Veness, Assistant Commissioner Specialist Operations, warned that there
was a threat of further terrorist attacks following four incidents in London
since June.

'We are concerned that the present series of terrorist crimes will continue.
There is a real danger of harm to the public.'

Advertisements are being carried in newspapers and on radio stations across
London, and posters will encourage people to watch out for suspicious packages
which could be bombs.

Owners of commercial and residential property have also been told to keep an eye
out for suspicious tenants which may book in over the festive season or rent
vehicles.

Two weeks ago officers uncovered a plan by a dissident Irish republican group to
set off a bomb in central London.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               November 28, 2000

Terror of petrol attack

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 85 words


A YOUTH was put through a terrifying ordeal when a drunken neighbour, who
threatened to torch two houses, doused him in petrol when he tried to stop him.

Paisley Sheriff Court heard that Alexander Muir escaped being badly burned by
throwing away a lighted cigarette. Michael Cochrane (19), of Fereneze Drive,
Paisley, admitted threatening the occupants of a house at Bute Crescent and
pouring petrol over Mr Muir.

Cochrane was sentenced to 18 months' probation and 240 hours of community
service.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                               November 28, 2000

Public told to be on guard over terrorist attack threat

SECTION: News: 999, Pg.7

LENGTH: 278 words


Leicester could be under threat from a Christmas terrorist attack n but the risk
is no higher than in any other large city, say experts.

Police are urging the public to be on their guard for anything suspicious and
have said they have procedures in place to look out for and deal with terrorist
incidents.

The warning comes the day after the Metropolitan Police set up a confidential
information hotline, saying there was a "real danger of harm to the public" from
acts of terrorism in the capital. London has already seen four incidents since
June.

Leicester has fallen prey to terrorists in the past. The city was the first soft
target to be hit by the IRA in 1990, in a bomb attack on an army van which had
just left the Yeoman Street Army careers office in the city centre. The driver
and passenger of the van escaped serious injury and no -one was killed.

Lecturer in security management at Leicester University's Scarman Centre Adrian
Beck said: "There has been a switch from military and political targets to
economic targets.

"This is partly because military and political targets are now so well defended
but also because economic targets cause disruption and inconvenience which puts
more pressure on politicians.

"Any economic centre is at risk. The centre of Leicester is now a very
prosperous shopping area compared to how it was 10 years ago.

"Geographically it is very well positioned to attract a lot of shoppers from the
broad Midlands area. But it is only so much of a target as Birmingham,
Manchester and other big centres. I would say the risk is low."

Leicestershire police reiterated the advice for the public to be vigilant.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2000 Leicester Mercury

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                December 1, 2000

ACTOR RUSHED TO HOSPITAL AFTER STABBING;CORRIE STAR FRED IN KNIFE ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: By Scott Russell

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 104 words


Coronation Street star John Savident is in hospital after being stabbed in the
neck early today.

The 62-year-old actor, who plays butcher Fred Elliott, is believed to have been
knifed in his flat near the Granada studios in Manchester.

He is now "comfortable and stable" in Manchester Royal Infirmary.

A police spokesman said a man was being questioned after being arrested in the
street near the actor's luxury flat.

The building was sealed off as forensic teams worked inside. Plain-clothes
officers took away a black bin bag, and traces of blood could be seen at the
entrance.

FULL STORY - PAGE 6

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: STREET FAVOURITE: John with screen love Audrey played by Sue Nicholls

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            December 4, 2000, Monday

HOMELESS MAN GETS NEW LODGINGS - JAIL;
 COURT TOLD OF IRON BAR TERROR AS ATTACKER SPRANG FROM BUSHES

BYLINE: Jenny Mackenzie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 265 words


A HOMELESS man has been jailed for nine months after hitting a man over the head
with an iron bar in Nuneaton.

Kevin Clamp, formerly of College Street, admitted assault when he appeared at
Warwick Crown Court.

The court heard that in June there had been a confrontation between Clamp and
Kevin Kiteley which led to a scuffle in which Mr Kiteley came off slightly
better.

The following day, Mr Kiteley was walking his dog near the town's George Eliot
Hospital when he saw Clamp. He changed direction and walked through the hospital
grounds to avoid him.

But Clamp hid behind a bush and jumped out as Mr Kiteley walked past, hitting
him twice over the head with an iron bar.

In a struggle, Mr Kiteley managed to grab the bar - said to be like a crowbar -
and hit out twice, once to the head and then to the body.

He threw the bar down and went to the hospital where he was treated for a cut
ear and bruised hand.

Jim Thomas, defending, said: "There have been significant problems during the
last three years for Clamp, particularly in relation to alcohol.

"He accepts that in approaching Mr Kiteley on both occasions his behaviour was
totally inappropriate.

"He very much regrets acting in the way he did. But in both incidents he came
off significantly the worse.

"On the second occasion he had injuries to the back of his head and to his
forehead which required stitches."

Mr Thomas said Clamp, who suffered from depression and anxiety, had been living
rough in the three days before his court appearance because he had been evicted
from his flat.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                December 6, 2000

Terrorist attacks threaten ceasefire

BYLINE: Ian Bruce

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 440 words


A RASH of terrorist attacks throughout Kashmir yesterday threatened to shatter
the fragile ceasefire declared unilaterally by India last weekend to coincide
with the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.

A suicide squad from Lashkar-e-Taiba, the most militant of the 80 groups waging
guerrilla war against New Delhi's control of the divided state, started a
22-hour firefight in which eight people died and nine were wounded.

Elsewhere, fedayeen fighters from the same group injured two air force personnel
in a landmine attack near Awantipore and killed two members of a policeman's
family and wounded two others at Poonch after smashing into their home.

Another attempted assault on a security post in the northern district of Kupwara
was foiled when soldiers spotted the insurgents and opened fire, killing one.

But so far, the Indian and Pakistani artillery batteries ranged along both sides
of the "line of control" which runs through the Himalayan crags have remained
uncharacteristically silent.

New Delhi ordered its troops to halt offensive operations for the duration of
the Islamic holy month, and Islamabad responded by telling its own men to fire
only if provoked and to exercise "maximum restraint."

Pakistan has also begun to hint that a permanent ceasefire might be possible if
India agreed to negotiate directly with the dissidents over Kashmir's future
status. New Delhi currently controls 45% of the area, Islamabad 33% and China
the rest.

Pakistan and India have fought three bloody wars over its control and the 11
-year insurgency has cost an estimated 80,000 lives.

The 300,000-strong Indian garrison there is on a permanent war footing and
represents a huge financial drain on the public purse.

There is one Indian soldier for every seven Kashmiri civilians, making the state
the world's most heavily militarised piece of real estate.

Abdul Sattar, Pakistan's foreign minister, said yesterday that he hoped India
would extend its peacemaking efforts to allow members of Hurriyat, the umbrella
organisation which represents 22 of the rebellious political and religious
groups in Kashmir, to open talks.

"Immediately thereafter, the dialogue should begin between India and Pakistan,
with the participation of the Kashmiri

people.

"That is our hope for a quick move away from violence towards negotiations and
peaceful settlement," he added.

Mr Sattar denied Indian claims that his government was bankrolling and supplying
insurgent groups and offering them bases in its own sector of Kashmir, and
insisted that the only way to end confrontation was to initiate peace talks.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           December 7, 2000, Thursday

BOY RAIDER IN AXE ATTACK DETAINED;
 TERROR OF PC TRAPPED AS CAR SMASHED

BYLINE: Rachel Pinder

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 3

LENGTH: 340 words


A BOY of 16 caught raiding a jewellery shop smashed up a police car with an axe
as one officer was trapped inside, a court heard.

The whole scene was captured on closed-circuit television cameras and the drama
only ended when police managed to subdue the Leamington teenager with CS gas and
force him against a shop window to restrain him.

At Warwick Crown Court yesterday, the teenager, now aged 17, pleaded guilty to
charges of aggravated burglary and affray.

Judge James Pyke ordered he should not be identified despite the seriousness of
the offences.

The youth was sentenced to the maximum period of two years detention and
training, after his plea of not guilty to a more serious charge of attempting to
inflict grievous bodily harm on PC Ken Fowler was accepted.

Adrian Keeling, prosecuting, said that in August, the youth, from the Sydenham
estate in Leamington, began acting strangely.

He told his friends he was going round the corner to blow up his car, then left
and set fire to it.

At 2am on August 11, the youth went out again, taking a bag with him, and went
to Lisa Chambers jewellers

in Satchwell Court, where he smashed the window and helped himself to jewellery
worth pounds 2,971.

Police alerted by the alarm stopped in Park Street when they saw the youth
heading towards them.

He ran straight at the car with the axe and although the driver managed to get
out, PC Fowler had the axe swung at his head as he tried to get out the
passenger side.

As he ducked back inside, the axe smashed the window, showering his face with
glass.

The court was shown video footage of the officer moving frantically around
inside as the youth set about the other windows.

Peter Arnold, defending, said: "He (the defendant) had taken quite significant
quantities of alcohol and some drugs on that day, which led to foolish banter
and dares which initially led him into setting fire to his own car. But it did
not stop there and he was dared to go out and commit a burglary, which he did."

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2000 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            December 8, 2000, Friday

POLICE WARN OF TERROR ATTACKS;
 POSTER CAMPAIGN TELLS PUBLIC TO BE ON GUARD

BYLINE: Mark Cowan

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 207 words


POLICE chiefs in the West Midlands have launched a major awareness campaign
calling on people to be aware of possible terrorist attacks.

A series of six new posters are being distributed across the region.

New campaign

They are urging people to be on the lookout for suspicious people and packages.

The new campaign is not in response to any specific terrorist threat, but
Assistant Chief Constable Chris Sims said people needed to be on their guard.

'We need the help of everyone in the West Midlands to use their eyes and ears
and call us if they see anything suspicious,' he said.

'Following three incidents in London there is always the potential for attacks
in other cities and we need to remain vigilant.

'It is important that people stay alert and report any suspicious activity or
packages to the police, especially in the run up to Christmas, when people are
busy, streets are crowded and it is easy to get distracted.'

He also called on owners of commercial premises, residential properties,
landlords, hoteliers and those in the motor trade to come forward if they had
any suspicions about tenants or purchasers.

Anyone with information can call the confidential free hotline on 0800 789 321.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 11, 2000, Monday

TAXI DRIVER SHOT IN TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 100 words


A TAXI driver was seriously ill in hospital last night after being shot as he
sat in his cab.

It is believed the attack was a sectarian murder bid gone wrong.

The Protestant, in his 30s, was shot in Derry but it later emerged loyalists
carried out the attack.

Ulster Democratic Party sources said the 4am attack was carried out by loyalists
but denied it had been sanctioned by the UDA.

It is believed that a call was made to a mainly Catholic firm asking for a
particular driver by name, but when he wasn't available the caller phoned
another firm which has a mixed workforce.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               December 18, 2000

Terrorism casts its dark shadow;
 Gun attacks: Horrific murder is a bleak start to Christmas week in Northern
Ireland

LENGTH: 386 words


Despite the optimism engendered by Friday's announcement by the paramilitaries,
the events of the past 24 hours provide firm evidence that the men of violence
are still stalking our streets. Today's fatal shooting in the Ballysillan area
of Belfast, coupled with last night's gun attack on the home of a former
chairman of the Ulster Democratic Party, are ominous developments which must be
condemned by all right-thinking people.

Clearly there are still too many people of violent intent who have ready access
to arms and tension will remain high in the run-up to Christmas. The security
forces must be given all the assistance that they require.

The reality is that the loyalist paramilitaries need not only to end their feud
but to put their weapons beyond use. To date, the UFF and UVF have been as
dilatory as the IRA in honouring their commitments on the decommissioning front.

In too many areas of Northern Ireland, the paramilitaries continue to hold sway.
The hopes engendered by the Good Friday Agreement that the terrorist groupings
would disarm and then disband have yet to be realised. Although such changes
were never likely to take place overnight, progress remains agonisingly slow.

The main loyalist and republican paramilitary groupings remain officially on
ceasefire, but the reality is that they are far from inactive. According to the
security forces, they remain involved in nefarious activities ranging from
protection rackets to fuel smuggling, the production of bootleg videos and sale
of illegally imported cigarettes.

The danger is that Northern Ireland is on the slide into some sort of Mafia
society. First Minister David Trimble learnt during his visit to Sicily last
week about the influence which organised crime can exert. Already, the
paramilitary groups in various parts of Northern Ireland have the ability to
hold large parts of their own communities to ransom.

The surest way to loosen the grip of the paramilitaries is to break the deadlock
on decommissioning, and then to apply proper policing to all parts of the
province. As today's tragic events show, to allow the paramilitaries free rein
is to go down a dangerous road. The movies have glamorised the Mafia but the
reality of a society dominated by organised crime is much less savoury.


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2000 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 19, 2000, Tuesday

SCREEN VIOLENCE AND STREET ATTACKS BRING TERROR TO TOKYO

BYLINE: Richard Lloyd Parry In Tokyo

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 304 words


FOR DAYS before Battle Royale opened, Japanese conservatives issued warnings
about it. The film is a violent, near-future fantasy, a cross between A
Clockwork Orange and Lord of the Flies in which armed schoolchildren are sent to
a desert island with instructions to kill one another. Only the survivor may go
home.

Within hours of its opening at the weekend, in the Shibuya district of Tokyo, a
boy aged 17 seemed to have proved the conservatives' point. He beat a young
woman with the baseball bat he had just bought. Then he set about a 32-year -old
man in a public lavatory. And within eight minutes he had attacked half a dozen
more.

There was no evidence that the boy had seen or even had an interest in Battle
Royale, but the coincidence of the film's opening with the Shibuya clubbings
serves as a reminder to the Japanese of what seems to be a terrifying new vein
of violence among the young.

The bat-wielding youth has not been named in the media, but by yesterday the
Japanese already knew a lot about him; he is a loner who dropped out of school
after several years of being bullied and ostracised.

In other words, he sounds much like a growing list of maladjusted teenagers who
have committed horrible crimes across Japan in recent years.

Last June, a 17-year-old beat his mother to death with a baseball bat because,
he said, he wanted to "know how it felt". In the same week, another 17-year -old
hijacked a bus and stabbed a passenger to death.

The grimmest crime of all was in 1997 when a 14-year-old boy in Kobe killed and
decapitated an 11-year-old playmate and deposited his severed head in front of
the victim's school.

As the producers of Battle Royale have pointed out, their film looks less like a
provocation to violence than a timely reflection of a troubled country.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A scene from Kinji Fukasaku's 'Battle Royale', whose violent scenes
have horrified many Japanese people

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               December 30, 2000

BA safety probe after air terror
 COCKPIT ATTACK: Jet was only seconds from crash

SECTION: Agency: AGENCY, Pg.14

LENGTH: 438 words


BRITISH Airways was today reviewing in-flight security after a terrifying
cockpit attack which came within seconds of causing a packed BA jet to crash.

The intruder, described as a tall, strong, hysterical mental patient, burst on
to the flight desk and managed to disengage the auto-pilot as he struggled with
Captain William Hagan, 53, and co-pilot Richard Webb, 35.

The Nairobi-bound Boeing 747 plunged 10,000ft in a series of nosedives as
terrified passengers screamed in terror and prayed aloud.

Among the 379 passengers on board were singer Bryan Ferry, his wife Lucy Helmore
and two of their children.

Also on the flight were Jemima Khan, wife of former Pakistan cricketer Imran,
her two children, brother Benjamin and mother, Lady Annabel Goldsmith, wife of
businessman Sir James.

With another co-pilot at the controls, Capt Hagan and Mr Webb managed to get the
man - a Kenyan national reportedly named by police in Nairobi as 27-year-old
Paul Kefa Mukonyi - into an upper-deck business class compartment.

Passengers then helped wrestle the intruder to the ground and restrain him.

BA, which has launched an investigation into the incident, said the cockpit door
was normally locked during take off and landing but kept open during the flight.

Kieran Daly, editor of Air Transport Intelligence said: "It is almost impossible
to guarantee 100 percent security during the flight - the reality is that there
is quite a lot of coming and going from the main cabin. There are a lot of times
when you have to open the door and attackers are going to find a way through."

Capt Hagan, from Glasgow, whose wife and two children were on board, was bitten
on the ear and finger in the struggle.

Four passengers and one stewardess, who broke an ankle, were injured as the
plane lurched around the sky.

One passenger said Capt Hagan later told travellers that if the drama had lasted
four or five seconds longer, the co-pilot would not have been able to regain
control because the jet was about to flip on to its back.

The plane, which had left Gatwick airport in West Sussex at 11pm on Thursday
night, eventually landed safely at Nairobi where the intruder was arrested.

Speaking from Nairobi, Capt Hagan, who has 30 years of flying experience, said:
"It all happened very quickly. My first thought was for the safety of the
aircraft and the passengers. We just did what we are trained to do."

Mr Ferry, who was on his way to Zanzibar for a holiday, said: "I was very
frightened but I'm very relieved to be here on dry land.

"I have done a lot of plane flights in my life but this is the most eventful."

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2000 Evening Herald

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           December 31, 2000, Sunday

GEORGE: MY TERROR OF MAD KNIFE ATTACKER

BYLINE: Stewart Fowler

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 147 words


TERRIFIED George Harrison has told how he dreads coming face-to-face with his
lunatic attacker, in a letter to the Sunday People.

The ex-Beatle was repeatedly stabbed by 34-year-old schizophrenic Michael Abram.

Harrison says he was "devastated" by the attack and accuses the Government of
betraying victims of the mentally ill.

New laws are to be introduced warning victims when their attackers are due to be
released from prison.

But Harrison, who fears for the safety of fellow Beatles Paul McCartney and
Ringo Starr, writes: "This does not cover the problem of those released from
HOSPITAL who might still be a threat.

"I have had letters from people attacked by people released too early from
hospitals, as well as parents of schizophrenics who have been treated with
shameful inadequacy.

"Major mistakes are being made with devastating results."

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LETTER: Harrison

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           December 31, 2000, Sunday

COUPLE ABANDONED TO LIVE IN BLIND TERROR;
 GUIDE DOG DIES AFTER ATTACKS

BYLINE: Lindsay Fergus

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 515 words


THIS is the blind couple who have been terrorised in their home by children as
young as eight. Heather and Alan Owens live in daily fear after a horrendous
catalogue of intimidation by evil young thugs.

The North Belfast pair, who have been blind since birth, have applied to the
Housing Executive for an emergency transfer out of the Limestone Road area.

However, the newlyweds' cry for help has fallen on deaf ears after civil
servants in the government body placed them at the bottom of a TWO YEAR waiting
list.

But determined Heather, who has virtually confined herself to her home after a
series of disgusting attacks, has vowed to fight until the Housing Executive
takes action.

In October Heather's beloved dog Cindy, which was a present from her late
father, had to be put down after local teenagers targeted the family pet in a
cruel fireworks attack.

Although the dog survived the spine-chilling incident, it had to be put down one
week later because of severe trauma and brain damage.

And the sickening ordeal has left Heather, a housewife, fearing for the safety
of her precious guide-dog Emily, without whom she would be housebound.

On other occasions vodka bottles, planks with nails in them and bricks have been
thrown at the couple's dogs in the back yard while Heather has also been
verbally abused.

She was told to "f*** off you blind b******" one night after asking children to
stop throwing fireworks until she passed with her 10-year-old black Labrador
guide dog.

"The attack on Cindy really cracked us up at the time. We still do not know who
was responsible but we have never caused anybody harm.

"Even when we were taking her in the taxi to get put to sleep they were laughing
and sniggering in front of us and we can't identify them and they take
advanatage of that.

"I felt gutted, angry and very hurt. I began to hate this place even though I
was born and brought up here. I have no heart to stay," she explained.

"One week after Cindy was targeted, I was on my way home from my mother's and
the kids, who were only eight or nine, were throwing fireworks.

"The guide dog was terrified so I asked them to stop throwing fireworks until I
passed and they called me a blind b****** and told me to f*** off. They said
other things which were so vile I couldn't repeat them.

"I got into the house and just started to cry."

Heather has blasted Housing Executive bosses in the Shankill Road and accused
them of treating her and Alan "disgracefully".

She said: "I feel that the powers that be on the Shankill Road do not want to
know. The paramilitaries involved in the feud are treated better than us."

Alan who is as equally scathing of the Housing Executive, said: "If we were
paramilitaries we would have the pick of the houses.

"My wife no longer feels safe in the area. I have to work during the day so her
72-year-old mother has to do the messages for her.

"The Housing Executive is aware of the intimidation that we have had to suffer
because of our disability but it hasn't made a difference."

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGETED: Heather and Alan Owen are afraid to go out

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            January 2, 2001, Tuesday

CLINTON'S BID FOR MIDEAST PEACE FALTERS;
 TERRORIST ATTACK: CAR BOMB ROCKS ISRAELI COASTAL RESORT

BYLINE: Howard Goller In Jerusalem

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 702 words


A car bomb rocked the Israeli town of Netanya yesterday, wounding at least 40
people in fresh violence that clouded President Bill Clinton's bid to forge
Israeli-Palestinian peace before leaving office.

Ambulance workers said one person was critically wounded and the others lightly
to moderately injured in what a spokesman for Israeli prime minister Ehud Barak,
quoting initial reports, described as a 'terrorist attack'.

Witnesses said they heard up to four explosions, apparently from a bomb or bombs
inside a car. Netanya is a coastal resort about 18 miles north of Tel Aviv.

'People are hysterical. Shop windows have been blown everywhere. People are
crying. There is black smoke everywhere,' a witness told Israel Radio.

Israeli security authorities have warned the public to expect an upsurge in
bombings by Palestinian militants opposed to peace moves.

After the attack, Israel ordered the closure of Gaza's international airport,
Israeli and Palestinian aviation officials said.

The closure sealed the only Palestinian corridor that remained open after Israel
tightened a cordon around the West Bank and Gaza Strip last Thursday following a
Tel Aviv bus bombing that wounded 14 people.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack on New Year's Day,
a work day in Israel which coincided with the 36th anniversary of the founding
of Palestinian President Yasser Arafat's Fatah movement.

The attacks threw further question marks over President Clinton's efforts to use
his last few days in office to broker a framework peace deal between Israelis
and Palestinians, who have been locked in battle for three months.

Israeli deputy prime minister Binyamin Ben-Eliezer said: 'This attack is a
serious attack, so serious that as far as I am concerned we should stop
everything and think about where we go from here.

'We cannot put up with a situation where every day we have another attack. All
this escalation is the child of only one man - Yasser Arafat,' Ben-Eliezer said.

Police voiced astonishment that so few people were wounded in the blasts, which
caused heavy damage to shops and cars, and their injuries were relatively light.
A deputy police commander, Danny Ronen, called it 'a miracle'.

Earlier, a senior leader of Hamas said the Islamic militant group might avenge
Palestinian casualties by launching a new spate of suicide bomb attacks against
Israeli targets. The group has killed scores of people in such attacks in the
past.

Even before the blast, Egyptian foreign minister Amr Moussa said after talks in
Cairo with Arafat that there were 'no indications' a deal would be sealed before
Clinton's term ends on January 20.

European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana launched a one-day drive to
persuade Arafat and Barak to accept President Clinton's framework proposals for
a final peace deal.

'I think we have a narrow window of opportunity and everybody has to do their
best to grasp this opportunity that will never be back,' Solana said at a news
conference in Jerusalem with Israeli foreign minister Shlomo Ben-Ami.

'We, the Europeans, have tried to help as much as possible, and I think a symbol
of that is that we are here today, the first day of the year, to try to help,'
he said before separate meetings with Barak and Arafat.

At least 298 Palestinians, 13 Israeli Arabs and 43 other Israelis have been
killed in the Palestinian uprising against Israeli occupation that erupted three
months ago in the wake of deadlocked peace negotiations.

In a separate incident, witnesses said Jewish settlers had driven into Hizma
village, near Jerusalem, in two cars and killed a Palestinian, Tahrir Rezeq, 22,
shooting him in the head. Israeli police said they were investigating, while a
spokeswoman for the settlers said she had no report of the incident.

Yesterday, Jewish settlers blocked roads to West Bank Arab villages in anger at
Sunday's slaying by Palestinian gunmen of Binyamin Kahane, the son of anti -Arab
rabbi Meir Kahane, who was himself killed by an Arab assassin in New York a
decade ago.

Kahane's wife was killed and five of their six children were wounded in the
roadside attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A member of Palestinian President Yasser Arafat's armed Fatah faction
carries a machinegun during a march in central Gaza yesterday

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                January 2, 2001

PAIR stabbed in NEW YEAR ATTACK
 Crazed knifeman terrorises family and hijacks taxi

BYLINE: By David Stoakes Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Crime: VIOLENCE, Pg.1

LENGTH: 354 words


A NEW Year Swansea reveller was millimetres from death after a crazed knifeman
hijacked his lift home and attempted to drive off with his terrified fiancee
still in the car.

The 26-year-old man and his prospective father-in -law were both stabbed early
yesterday in Longview Road, Clase, after they were forced to stop by a man
standing in the middle of the road.

The younger man was stabbed in the stomach and his father-in-law was wounded in
the back.Incredibly a gang of youths went past in the middle of the incident as
the men battled with their attacker and are believed to have been preparing to
steal the car before they realised the 27-year-old woman was still inside.

Today the younger of the two injured men, who lives in Clase but does not want
be identified, told of the night out which turned into a nightmare.

He said: "My girlfriend and I had been out for the evening and my prospective
father-in-law said he would pick us up. He's a taxi driver but had taken the
night off.

"When we were in Longview Road we saw this man in the middle of the road. We
tried to swerve to avoid him but he kicked the side of the car, which is marked
as a taxi. When we got out we were both attacked. I felt a pain but I thought I
had just been punched.

"They said later at the hospital the thing which had saved me was that I have
strong stomach muscles. I was lucky to be alive. If the injury had been three
millimetres away I could have been dead.

"The man actually got into the car at one stage and tried to drive off. My
girlfriend was screaming and he stopped and ran off."

Acting Detective Inspector Tony O'Leary, of Cockett CID, said today: "This all
happened between 12.30am and 12.45am on New Year's Day. We are very anxious to
trace a group of youths who came along at one stage.

"We are not interested in what they may or may not have been doing but they
could be vital witnesses."

The knifeman who fled is described as aged 25 to 30, has short light brown hair,
was clean shaven and 5ft 10ins tall. He was casually dressed and wore a navy
blue baseball cap.

(Call Cockett CID on Swansea 456999

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2001 South Wales Evening Post

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                January 3, 2001

Train terror after vandals' barrel attack

BYLINE: ALAN SALTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 325 words




PASSENGERS escaped unhurt after vandals hurled a barrel at a train, causing its
brakes to lock on.

The Liverpool to Rochdale service was travelling through Eccles when the object
was thrown on the tracks from a road bridge.  The blue heavy-duty plastic
industrial barrel became wedged underneath and the train stopped.  Passengers
had to be taken on to their destinations by taxi as the train became stuck for
more than an hour.  Nine further services were delayed by the incident.  The
barrel was thrown from the Albert Street bridge onto the railway line and the
accident could have been much worse had the train not been slowing down to stop
at Eccles station, said Railtrack.  Spokesman Keith Lumley said: The line speed
at that section is 75mph. Fortunately, the train was going much slower than that
because it was due to stop.''

The barrel caused an air leak in the train's braking system and the brakes
locked on, making it impossible to move until engineers had fixed the fault.
The incident was the second serious act of rail vandalism in Greater Manchester
in just over a week.  Mr Lumley added: Vandalism like this is bad enough at any
time but with all the other problems we have at the moment, it is the last thing
we need.''

British Transport Police are still investigating an attack at North Reddish just
before Christmas when an eight-inch bolt was thrown the windscreen of a
Manchester-bound train.  There is nothing to connect the two incidents.

Insp Graham Bamford said of the latest incident: This very serious. Nobody was
hurt this time but the potential for injury, shock to the passengers and delays
was tremendous.  We now have the barrel and we are doing forensic tests.

But we need anyone with information to come forward. These people need to be
caught.'' Anyone who can help should ring BTP's hotline on 0800 405040 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DANGER track . . . Pc Sharon Moores with the industrial barrel thrown
in front of a passenger train

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            January 14, 2001, Sunday

BOOTLEGGERS' TERROR ATTACKS ON CUSTOMS

BYLINE: MIKE EDWARDS

SECTION: 1 Edition; NEWS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 164 words


ARMED bootleggers have declared war on Customs officers as they try to clamp
down on the illegal cross-Channel trade.

In recent weeks officers have been head-butted, hit by fleeing vans and
threatened with weapons.

Jim Feeney, a senior Customs officer at Dover, said: "Only six months ago
assaults on our staff were practically unheard of, but now they happen
regularly."

Another Dover officer Pete Norris revealed how it was almost impossible to
prevent large gangs from barging their way ashore.

"We can stop the first 10 or so," he said."But then the others form a pincer
movement and push or fight their way through."

The attacks come as the Government introduces a £209million package of measures
to clamp down on smugglers, including the recruitment of 1,000 new officers.

"These gangs make big money - well over £1million a year is not unusual," said
Mr Feeney.

"These new measures will take the fight to the bootleggers, but it won't be
easy."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                January 15, 2001

Man tells of attack terror

BYLINE: By Jbuchan

SECTION: News:999:Terrorism, Pg.3

LENGTH: 236 words


A POLICE investigation is under way following claims a disabled man was
terrorised and assaulted by a group of men who broke into his North-east home.

The 34-year-old claimed 10 men armed with large pieces of wood smashed their way
into his New Pitsligo home.

He alleged he was beaten across the body in full view of seven children who were
in the house at the time.

A number of people con$-tacted the police to alert

them to the incident, which happened at about 9pm on Sat$-urday.

The man, who suffers

from spinal injuries, said yes$ -terday: "It was a terrifying ex$-perience.

"I had just been sitting at home with my five kids and my niece and nephew.

"Suddenly, completely out of the blue, the door was shoved in by a group of men.

They smashed the windows

on the door and broke fur$-niture.

"There was about 10 of them, and none of them cared that

they were being watched by children as young as one-and-a-half."

The man, who asked not to be named, claimed he was kicked in the head and neck.

"Some of the men had sticks like fence posts and they

beat me across the back with them."

He said he had recognised some of his attackers to be from the village.

It is understood the dispute arouse over the victim's out$ -standing debts.

A Grampian Police spokesman confirmed they were carrying out "extensive
in$-quiries" as a result of an in$-cident at New Pitsligo on Saturday evening.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2001 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          January 17, 2001, Wednesday

POLICE BID TO HALT TERROR ATTACKS ON LARNE HOMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 542 words


SECRETARY of State Peter Mandelson will visit Larne today to hear first hand
about the violence dividing the town.

He will visit the local councils offices and police station for briefings.

Yesterday, the RUC revealed they are mounting undercover surveillance operations
in the town in a bid to thwart further pipe bomb attacks on homes.

Chief Constable Sir Ronnie Flanagan confirmed that the police are reviewing
their approach to covert security operations in the town.

He said: "My commanders down in that area are meeting and they are going to
review what they are doing both in an overt sense and indeed in a covert sense."

He said he had no doubt that members of the UDA have played a role in the
campaign of violence in the town.

But, he added, it was not clear whether the attacks were organised and
sanctioned by the leadership of the UDA.

He said the UDA are currently a "loose organisation" which lacked central
direction and control.

The recent spate of attacks is just the latest in a long campaign of sectarian
incidents.

Sir Ronnie acknowledged both communities had suffered in Larne, but Catholics
have had the worst of the "dreadful situation" there.

Last year there were 76 sectarian attacks in the town, the vast majority against
Catholics.

Confirming during a BBC Radio Ulster interview that additional resources had
been drafted into the town, he said: "We are doing a tremendous amount down
there.

"Last year alone, we engaged in 300 operations over and above normal patrolling,
specifically directed at combating sectarianism.

"And with effect from the first week in December, we have deployed our military
colleagues and we'll keep that up."

Sir Ronnie has briefed Secretary Peter Mandelson on the security situation in
the town and other areas.

"We are taking this very seriously indeed," said Sir Ronnie.

He said operations were aimed at preventing attacks, and that the police were
working to gain convictions.

But he said: "The police can't address this on our own. We need to stop engaging
in this blame game and work together.

"We need information and co-operation. We will respond to any snippet of
information."

However, also yesterday, Sinn Fein Chief Whip Alex Maskey MLA, accused the Chief
Constable of making excuses for his force's inaction in the face of mounting
sectarian attacks on Catholics in Larne and elsewhere.

He said: "Ronnie Flanagan admitted he was aware of the involvement of individual
members of the UDA in these attacks, yet also conceded that, in spite of the
recent wave of sectarian attacks, they have made no arrests."

Mr Maskey added: "Catholics in Larne and elsewhere can see through the sort of
PR stunt that Flanagan engaged in this morning. The reality is that his force
are so closely associated with the loyalist gangs they are incapable of
protecting the Catholic community."

Mr Maskey said: "It is precisely for this reason and others that it was
necessary for the Good Friday Agreement to promise an entirely new beginning to
policing."

Meanwhile, four people have been arrested in Coleraine regarding serious crime
in the area.

The men were taken in for questioning from their homes yesterday morning.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SECTARIAN: the smashed glass pane in a Catholic home in Larne which was
the target of a loyalist pipe bomb attack

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                January 20, 2001

OUR TERROR IN 'ARSON ATTACK';
 Appeal for witnesses as dad tells of escape

BYLINE: MEGAN LLOYD DAVIES

SECTION: News, Pg.2

LENGTH: 352 words


A FATHER told how his family escaped a suspected arson attack at their St Anne's
home.

Warehouseman Michael Chappell, 39, was in his home on Guildford Avenue with his
wife Emma, 29, and three children when the blaze broke out.

Mr Chappell and his wife were sitting in their living room when Mrs Chappell
noticed a glow around the front door last night.

She went to investigate and saw flames licking around the inside of the door.

Mr Chappell said: "The fire was burning from the outside in.

"We feared for our safety. The flames and smoke were so bad in there."

Mrs Chappell rushed upstairs to get the couple's two children Georgie, three,
and Kirsty, eight, and a 12-year-old friend of Kirsty's who was staying the
night.

The family fled the house while Mr Chappell tried to tackle the flames using
water from the kitchen.

Firefighters from Brislington and Temple Back stations then arrived at the scene
and put the blaze out.

Police are now investigating the scene and appealing for witnesses to the
incident which happened at 11pm yesterday.

Mr Chappell said: "We are feel very distressed. My wife is very upset and
talking about moving but I say we should not give whoever did this the
satisfaction.

"The person who did this is sick. They need to go to a doctor."

Detective Sergeant Steve Coghlan, from Broadbury Road police station, said the
incident was being treated as a suspected arson attack.

He said: "The source of the fire is being looked at by scenes of crime officers.

"You would not anticipate a front door catching fire like that.

"It was very frightening for the family and it was more by luck than judgement
that the incident was not more serious."

Taxi driver Devon Kissoon was driving up Guildford Road when he saw three people
running away from a house.

He said: "Then all of sudden a fire went up like a bomb because it exploded at
once. I called the fire brigade. It was terrible.

"The people in the house came out the back door."

Anyone with information about the incident is asked to call Crimestoppers on
0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            January 21, 2001, Sunday

BULGER'S KILLER IN TERROR ATTACK NO2;
 HE BATTERED NEWCOMER OVER 'TOP MURDER' BOAST

BYLINE: Simon Lennon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 581 words


JAMES Bulger killer Robert Thompson had a ferocious bare-knuckle fight with
another teenage murderer in their top-security unit, the Sunday People can
reveal.

Amazingly it happened because both were boasting about who had committed the
worst crime.

The savage attack is the SECOND example of extreme violence by Thompson while in
custody. Last week we exclusively revealed how the calculating killer tried to
strangle a 15-year-old boy at the unit with flex.

Now we have uncovered how Thompson had a brutal brawl with 16-year-old John
Howells - who had murdered his mother.

Both violent outbursts by toddler James's killer were swept under the carpet
until we discovered the disturbing truth.

Our revelations make the Lord Chief Justice Lord Woolf's statement that Thompson
had not shown "any aggression or propensity for violence" at the unit look
increasingly bizarre.

And last night - as a political storm grew over Lord Woolf's decision to make
Thompson and fellow-killer Jon Venables, both 18, eligible for parole next month
- solicitor Stephen Smith representing one of latest victims said: "I have the
gravest concern about this new information." Sunday People investigators have
been shown secret documents confirming the battle between Thompson and Howells.

The bloody fight on January 16 1997 was so serious it was reported to the Home
Office but incredibly no action was taken.

Howells, from Huddersfield, West Yorks, was being held at the secure home in the
North of England while he awaited trial for the horrific murder of his
tyrannical mother Evelyn.

The thuggish teenager had battered Evelyn with a hammer with encouragement from
his father David, 48, and help from elder brother Glenn.

Thompson - then 14 and obsessed with keeping his image as the unit's hardest boy
after his 1993 conviction for abducting and murdering two-year-old James on
Merseyside - resented the newcomer's notoriety.

A well-placed source told the Sunday People: "It was a real territory thing.
Thompson didn't like someone else being the centre of attention.

"It all came to a bloody head when they were outside in the grounds one
afternoon.

"I believe that he and Thompson got arguing over who had done the worse crime.

"Then things boiled over and they started throwing punches.

"The staff were quickly on the scene. It took them a couple of minutes to pull
the two boys apart. They both had cuts and grazes all over their bodies."

The boy killers received first aid on the spot for their wounds but bosses at
the unit decided against sending them to hospital.

The source added: "It was a fierce fight. They can both handle themselves. It
was amazing that neither was seriously hurt.

"The whole incident was put on their records and details were forwarded to the
Home Office but nothing happened."

Solicitor Graham Perfitt who represents Howells - himself eligible for parole
next year - said: "It was all kept under wraps.

"I can't understand why it has taken so long to come out."

Two years after the fight, Thompson tried to strangle a 15-year-old inmate who
called him a "kid killer".

Solicitor Stephen Smith, who represents that victim, said: "If the Lord Chief
Justice knew of these incidents how could he justify his remarks about Thompson
last year?"

Lord Woolf, who cut Thompson's and Venables' sentences from 15 years to eight,
refused to comment last night.

PeopleHOTlinks

s.lennon@people.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Neither has shown any aggression or propensity for violence during his
period of detention; LORD CHIEF JUSTICE WOOLF'S RULING, OCT 26, 2000;; BRUTAL
FIGHT: Thompson (left) and Howells - and (inset) top judge's verdict on Thompson
and Jon Venables; MURDERED: James; SENSATION: Our story

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            January 21, 2001, Sunday

REAL IRA ATTACKS: TIMETABLE OF TERROR

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 330 words


THIS is the timetable of the most serious Real IRA attacks over the last 12
months:

February 25, 2000 - bomb fails to go off close to sleeping quarters inside the
Army's Shackelton Barracks at Ballykelly, Co Derry;

February 29 - A fully primed rocket discovered close to a police and military
base at Dungannon;

March 15 - Men arrested when police intercepted a car carrying 500lb of homemade
explosives at Hillsborough, Co Down;

April 6 - A device is found at a perimeter fence at Ebrington Barracks in Derry;

May 24 - mortar bomb attack at Glassdrumman Army base in south Armagh;

June 1 - a bomb attack at Hammersmith Bridge, London, the first attack by the
terror group on the mainland;

June 20 - Explosives found in holdall inside the grounds of Hillsborough Castle
- home to Secretary of State Peter Mandelson;

July 9 - a 250lb car bomb attack at Stewartstown RUC station damages nearby
homes;

July 19 - bomb attack on a railway line in west London;

August 11 - up to 500lb of explosives are found in Carrigans, Co Donegal after a
car chase;

September 12 - a soldier escapes unhurt when a 80lb bomb fails to detonate at a
military training site at Magilligan, Co Derry. A second 80lb bomb is found
nearby;

September 13 - mortar attack on Armagh RUC station;

September 20 - a missile attack on MI6 HQ in London's Vauxhall Cross. No one is
hurt;

September 24 - a 50lb bomb explodes on the railway line near Dunmurry;

September 28 - RUC thwarts a pre-Christmas bomb blitz in London. A bomb twice as
powerful as that used in Omagh was seized by Special Branch at Hannahstown in
west Belfast inside a horsebox;

October 14 - RUC raid a house in west Belfast and seized a rocket launcher. Two
men arrested;

December 14 - a fully primed bomb was seized by Special Branch in Belfast city
centre. Two people arrested;

January 13 - Device found at Brootally Cross in Armagh found to contain 1,100lb
of home-made explosives.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                January 23, 2001

Security guard attack terror

BYLINE: Andy Neild (author email aneild@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 148 words

DATELINE: Bolton



A SECURITY guard was beaten about the head and body but managed to hold off his
attackers until police arrived.

The 28-year-old man was confronted by the raiders when the three masked man
burst into the One Stop convenience store in Brandlesholme Road, Bury, early on
Tuesday.

The guard was hit about the face and body with a crow bar and later needed
hospital treatment to a head wound.

A police spokesman said: "The offenders demanded the guard hand over the keys to
the safe but, despite his injuries, the man was aware an alarm system had been
activated and he played for time until police officers arrived."

Within minutes several police officers arrived at the shop causing the robbers
to flee. It is believed they made good their escape in a car parked nearby in
Lepp Crescent.

The security guard was released from Bury General Hospital after treatment.


LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          January 24, 2001, Wednesday

OAP ROBBED IN TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 54 words


AN 87-YEAR-OLD woman was dragged across her living room by a man who tricked his
way into her Warwick home and stole pounds 8,000.

He threatened more violence as she tried to stop him searching cupboards when
she realised he was bogus.

He had tricked his way in by saying he had called to sort out the heating.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          January 24, 2001, Wednesday

YOUTHS WANTED AFTER ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 139 words


POLICE are hunting two youths who mugged a 17-year-old girl near Hinckley on
Monday evening.

The pair, aged about 16, began talking to the girl at the junction of Shilton
Road and Arthur Street, in Barwell.

They then attacked her, leaving her with facial injuries, and stole her handbag.
It contained her mobile phone and purse.

Both youths are white and slim. The first has distinctive pointy cheek bones and
nose and was wearing a red baseball cap and a beige or cream puffer jacket. The
second wore a black coat over a grey hooded top, with the hood over his head.

Police are appealing for information about the attack, which took place at
7.50pm.

Anyone who can help can call Det Con Phil Wholton, of Hinckley police, on 0116
222 2222, or the free and confidential Crimestoppers hotline on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      January 27, 2001, Saturday Edition 1

Stabbing victim tells court of knife attack terror

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 28

LENGTH: 279 words

A council manager told a jury how he was stabbed and robbed as he visited a
homosexual haunt.Clive Ryott said his attacker pulled out a knife from his back
pocket and demanded money during the confrontation in The Gardens on Newcastle's
Quayside."As he finished saying it, he stabbed me," Mr Ryott, 32, told Newcastle
Crown Court yesterday. "I was aware afterwards I had been stabbed in the arm on
more than one occasion."I put my arm up to try and defend myself and then I
turned and ran. He was chasing me, he was shouting 'Come back, give me your
money'. I knew he was still behind me because he was still shouting and I could
hear his footsteps."I was aware he had grabbed the back of my jacket and was
pulling the jacket and shouting come back. Fortunately I had my jacket unzipped
and let it fall off my shoulders."Mr Ryott said he fled to a nearby pub and was
taken to hospital where he was treated for four wounds to his arm.He later
attended an identity parade when he picked out Lee Bright as his
attacker.Bright, 26, of Woodland Crescent, Benwell, Newcastle is alleged to have
stabbed Mr Ryott just minutes after knifing Bruce Walker to death.Mr Walker, 47,
from the Ford Estate, Sunderland, was found collapsed in a nearby street and
died from massive internal bleeding after being stabbed three times in the back.
Bright denies his murder and robbing and wounding Mr Ryott in December 1999.The
jury has heard how Bright's white van was caught on security cameras as it
travelled to and from the Quayside area on the night of the attack.His DNA
profile was also found to match a profile taken from Mr Walker's fingernails.
The trial continues on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2001

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 30, 2001, Tuesday

POSH FLEES FOR HER LIFE;
 STAR'S TERROR OVER ATTACK

BYLINE: JAMES SCOTT

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 54 words

HIGHLIGHT: BECKHAM: Driving; TERRIFIED: Posh and Brooklyn


PETRIFIED Posh Spice feared she and baby Brooklyn were going to be killed when
they were attacked by violent thugs.

The singer screamed in terror as the yobs tried to overturn their car, being
driven by husband David Beckham.

A friend said last night: "They really did fear for their lives."

FULL STORY: PAGE 7

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            February 5, 2001, Monday

TORY ATTACKS BANK TERROR PROTESTERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 151 words


A SENIOR Scots Tory hit out last night at animal rights activists who threatened
bank bosses.

Lord James Douglas Hamilton condemned the terrorist tactics used against leading
figures in the Royal Bank of Scotland.

In an alarming security breach, the protesters had accessed BT databases and
then made menacing calls to the homes of friends of Lord Hamilton's ex
-colleague Lord Younger and other bank directors.

The anti-vivisectionists - members of Cambridgeshire group Stop Huntingdon
Animal Cruelty - were attempting to force chairman Younger to stop funding a
drug testing firm.

The phone leaks followed demonstrations outside the Edinburgh homes of bank
executives and a hate mail campaign.

Last night, Lord Hamilton said: "These activities are not only counter
-productive, but wrong

"I'm the first person to defend freedom of expression but the rule of law must
prevail."

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                February 5, 2001

TERROR ATTACK IS THWARTED AS ELECTION LOOMS; 'BOMBER' SHOT DEAD BY ISRAELI
SOLDIERS

BYLINE: BY JACQUI GODDARD FOREIGN EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 471 words


Israeli soldiers last night claimed they foiled plans for a major terrorist
attack as tension mounts before tomorrow's crucial election.

They shot dead a Palestinian said to be armed with explosives as he tried to
climb a fence dividing Gaza from Israel.

"He had with him a very powerful bomb and he climbed over the fence with it in
an attempt to infiltrate into Israel and carry out a large terrorist attack
against Israeli civilians," claimed an army spokeswoman.

The incident heightened fears of an escalation of hostilities in the region as
Israel goes to the polls tomorrow to elect a new prime minister.

Ariel Sharon, who led the bloody 1982 invasion of Lebanon, was yesterday leading
Prime Minister Ehud Barak in the opinion polls by up to 21 per cent.

Loathed across the Arab world and noted for his intolerance of the Palestinian
cause, Sharon's appointment would herald the most Right-wing government the
country has ever known.

Vainly seeking to stave off such a prospect, Barak finally came alive after an
otherwise low-key campaign yesterday to rally apathetic voters.

"The election is a matter of life and death - as simple as that," he warned in a
letter to 300,000 Israelis, urging them that a vote for him would be a vote for
peace.

"We are within reach of a dream for generations - a breakthrough to peace that
will put an end to 100 years of blood and tears.

"On the other hand, we could get stuck - perhaps unintentionally - in another
cycle of searing hatred, sorrow and children who do not return home."

Barak announced his resignation two months ago, bowing to public pressure over
his poor handling of a four-month Palestinian uprising against Israeli
occupation. Clashes between the two sides, triggered by a provocative visit by
Sharon to a holy shrine to which both Arabs and Jews lay claim, resulted in the
deaths of at least 318 Palestinians and 51 Israelis.

Barak is also perceived to have offered too many concessions to the Palestinians
during US-brokered peace talks.

More than 11,000 Israeli police and soldiers will be on duty to try to ensure
tomorrow's election passes off smoothly.

But Yasser Arafat's Palestinian Authority yesterday accused Israeli troops of
inflaming tensions by sending in bulldozers to demolish six houses, a factory,
two petrol stations and orchards, during an incursion into the Gaza Strip.

The Israeli army said it was checking the claims. But it has justified past
assaults by claiming houses were being used as a cover for Arab gunmen.

"We will not keep silent, we will react," warned Arafat's Public Security Chief
Abdel-Razek Al-Majaydeh last night.

"It is a shameful act of a brutal occupation force. Israel is not only killing
Palestinian people but also killing land and destroying properties."

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           February 6, 2001, Tuesday

RAIDERS IN TERROR ATTACK ON JEWELLER

SECTION: ROP; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 233 words


A TERRIFIED Birmingham jeweller was attacked by robbers who sprayed petrol over
him and threatened to set him alight before escaping with precious stones worth
pounds 250,000.

Detectives, who described the incident as 'horrifying,' were today hunting for
the two raiders who struck at Price's Jewellers in the Jewellery Quarter
yesterday morning.

Police said Eric Price, aged 38, needed hospital treatment after his ordeal
which began when he opened his shop in Pitsford Street, Hockley.

As he arrived at 8am, he was approached by two men who sprayed his face and suit
with petrol and forced him to lead them into the premises.

Threatened

They threatened to set Mr Price alight if he raised the alarm or telephoned the
police before forcing him to open the safe which contained diamond rings and
loose gemstones.

Throughout Mr Price's ordeal one of the robbers followed him around, clicking a
lighter and threatening to set him on fire.

After taking a video containing CCTV footage of the shop, the robbers put a
black plastic bin bag on his head and knocked him unconscious with a hockey
stick.

Mr Price lost consciousness as the men fled the premises with the jewels, which
included 450 diamond rings and 120 loose diamonds, pearls and sapphires.

He alerted the police when he came round and was taken to hospital for treatment
before later being released.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                February 6, 2001

CLAIRE TELLS OF TERROR ATTACK AT HOME

BYLINE: CARL PALMER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 457 words


Pregnant woman is bitten on stomach by police dog


A PREGNANT teenager was bitten on the stomach by a police dog in her home.

It pinned her to a wall as its handlers struggled to restrain it.  Claire
Harris, 19, she was hysterical after the attack which has left her scarred. One
of the handlers had unleashed the German shepherd to chase a suspected car
thief, but it jumped at Claire as she opened her front door.

Police later apologised and Claire rejected their offer to have it put down. The
dog has been retrained and has returned to duty.  Claire, a sales administrator,
was watching TV at home in Hollyhedge Road, Wythenshawe, when a security camera
fixed to an outside wall picked up a youth running down a path and beamed
pictures on to her set.

She heard a screech of brakes and saw two men, whom she later discovered were
plain clothes officers, chasing a youth. Claire, who is 11 weeks pregnant with
her first baby, is believed to have distracted the dog when she opened her door
to investigate.Claire said: As I opened the door, the man let the dog off the
lead and instead of chasing the lad, it ran at me in the hall. I was very
frightened. It jumped up and bit my stomach. It pinned me to the wall with its
paws on the side of my leg so I couldn't move.  The pain was awful and I was
terrified in case it had damaged the baby. Even though the officers were in
plain clothes, they ran down the path shouting Police!'' It needed both officers
to drag the dog off me. The most frightening thing was that the dog just ignored
the commands shouted by his handler and would not let me go. They locked it in
their van before coming back to interview me and call an ambulance.''

Claire was taken to Wythenshawe Hospital where she had a scan to check on the
baby. Her wound was cleaned and bandaged.  She added: The police were very
apologetic, saying it shouldn't have happened. An inspector has been to see me
twice to ask if I wanted the dog put down, but I said no.'' Claire has
instructed solicitors with a view to seeking damages. She added: I'm going to be
scarred for life and I'm scared if a dog comes anywhere near me.'' Supt Neil
Wain said: There was a terribly unfortunate incident and an inspector has been
to see the woman to make sure she is okay.  We are not aware of her making any
complaint to us or of her making any kind of claim.  It was an unfortunate set
of circumstances where we had an officer pursuing a suspected car thief with the
dog. The dog has since been retrained and retested and is back on duty after
being the subject of a full report.''

The suspect escaped, partly because the officer involved stopped to tend to
Claire.


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Claire . . .  the dog ignored the commands by his handler'

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                               February 11, 2001

We carried out Saudi bombing attacks claims terrorist group;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: Andrew Beaven

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 562 words


ISLAMIC terrorists have claimed responsibility for the bomb attacks in Saudi
Arabia for which a British citizen is facing the death penalty, the Mail on
Sunday can reveal.

Scottish medical technician Alexander Mitchell, another Scot and a Belgian face
being publicly beheaded after they apparently admitted on Saudi television
planting two car bombs which killed one man and injured several others.

Yet the authenticity of their confessions - already disputed by relatives and
human rights activists - has now been seriously undermined by the astonishing
news that a known terrorist organisation admitted causing the explosions.

In a call to the British Embassy in the Saudi capital, Riyadh, an extremist Arab
group stated that its members were responsible.

Saudi authorities were told of the claim, but suspicion was mounting last night
that they chose not to investigate, opting instead to make the suspects, who
were in jail on alcohol trafficking charges, scapegoats for political reasons.

Last night the liberal Movement for Islamic Reform in Arabia said that Minister
of the Interior Prince Nayif was reluctant to admit the existence of active
terrorist groups in Saudi Aarbia.

Spokesman Saad Al-Fagih said: 'We have information from sources within the Saudi
Interior Ministry which confirms that the three Western suspects were pressured
into making false confessions.

'It is our understanding that the

Interior Ministry has arrested a large number of youths belonging to the Jihad
trend and is convinced that they have been behind the bombings.

'Publicly, however, Prince Nayif is avoiding this possibility, since admitting
the involvement of terrorists would also mean admitting the existence of forces
in the country that could destabilize the regime.' The spate of bombings began
in November when Christopher Rod-way, 47, a British technician in a military
hospital in Riyadh, was killed by a car bomb.

Days later a second car bomb, also in Riyadh, injured three British aviation
workers, and led to a massive increase in security for the 26,000 UK citizens
living in Saudi Arabia.

On December 15, Scottish Coca-Cola employee David Brown was left blind in one
eye when a booby-trap device on his car exploded in his face, in the township of
Al-Khobar, north-east of Riyadh.

Two days later Alexander Mitchell, a 45-year-old former soldier from Glasgow,
was arrested and charged with distributing alcohol, which is illegal under
Islamic law.

Also arrested were Scots-born-William Sampson, now a Canadian citizen, and
Belgian Raaf Schifte.

On January 28, British Embassy officials visited Mr Mitchell to discuss the
alcohol-related charges against him. No mention was made either by the prisoner
or by the Saudi officials of any bombing charges.

Yet on February 4. Mr Mitchell appeared on Saudi television confessing to the
first two bombings.

However, on January 10, while the three Westerners were in jail, an Arabic
extremist group telephoned the British Embassy in Riyadh admitting the bombings.

The Foreign Office also confirmed that the Embassy had received the call and had
raised the matter with the Saudi authorities.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: 'We passed the information on to Saudi police,
who agreed to investigate.

'It is not for us to judge the credibility of the claim'.


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           February 12, 2001, Monday

TERROR OF PIPE BOMB ATTACKS GOES ON;
 'NET IS CLOSING ON THOSE RESPONSIBLE'

BYLINE: Karen Quinn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 599 words


A HOUSE was damaged in the latest pipe bomb attack in Ulster early yesterday.

The device was thrown at the back of a house in Alliance Avenue, north Belfast.
A number of windows were smashed and a door damaged.

Two men and a woman, who were inside the house at the time, were uninjured.

The Catholic owner of the house, Hugh McInally, was asleep in bed when the
device was thrown through the back door into his kitchen.

Mr McInally, a bakery worker, who is originally from Glasgow, said when he went
downstairs there was glass everywhere.

"All the windows were blown in. The back door was hanging off its hinges. The
upstairs windows were all smashed as well, at the back," he said.

The attack was condemned by SDLP Assembly member for the area, Alban Maginness.

"It bears all the hallmarks of a sectarian attack and it is something that must
be condemned by everybody," he said.

"This is quite intolerable and it is aimed at terrorising innocent people and
destabilising the situation in Belfast and throughout the North."

A Protestant woman and her two children also escaped unhurt yesterday after the
front door of their south Belfast home was blasted with a shotgun.

The attack took place at around midnight in Castlerobin Road in the loyalist
Belvoir Estate.

Meanwhile, members of the Protestant and Catholic clergy have united to condemn
the wave of attacks.

The Church of Ireland Bishop of Down and Dromore, Rt Rev Harold Miller, said
they could undermine the peace process by breeding more violence.

"Obviously when there are pipe bomb attacks going on it makes it more likely
that there would be retaliation from republican paramilitaries. It makes it more
likely that the peace process won't continue securely and also, it makes
decommissioning less likely," he said.

The Catholic Bishop of Derry, Dr Seamus Hegarty, said the increase in pipe
bombing could harm community relations in mixed areas.

He was reacting to a pipe bomb attack on a Catholic family in the Waterside area
of the city on Saturday.

A couple and their two young nieces, aged five and three, escaped injury when
the device was thrown through the kitchen window of their home at Winchester
Park. It exploded causing minor damage to the house.

The couple, who are both Catholic, said they believed the motive behind the
attack was sectarian.

Dr Hegarty added: "It generates and creates a certain element of suspicion in an
area where, in the past, the relationship has been very tenuous.

"I would like to say there are many, many, good, Protestant people in the
Waterside and I know that they abhor the unjustified and unwarranted attacks on
the homes of Catholics as much as we do."

Meanwhile, RUC Chief Constable Sir Ronnie Flanagan said the net was closing in
on those responsible for a wave of sectarian pipe bomb attacks across Northern
Ireland.

Around 50 pipe bomb attacks have been recorded in the Province since the start
of the year, most of them directed at Catholics.

Mr Flanagan said investigations into the attacks were proving complex, but
progress was being made.

"We have upped the levels of our patrolling, we have made appeals for public
support, we have made many seizures of these devices, and we are increasing our
covert activity as well," he said.

Mr Flanagan added it appeared that the majority of the pipe bomb incidents
involved members of the largest loyalist paramilitary group, the UDA.

But that did not necessarily mean that the organisation itself was consciously
breaching its ceasefire, he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEADLY WEAPON: an RUC officer holds a pipe bomb; CONDEMNATION:; Bishop
Seamus Hegarty, RUC Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan and Bishop; Harold Miller

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               February 12, 2001

Dog attack terror

BYLINE: Nick Evans (author email nevans@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 42 words

DATELINE: Accrington,Blackburn,Burnley,Clitheroe,Colne,Darwen,Nelson,Rawtenstall



A PENSIONER watched in horror as a dog burst into her home and savaged her pet
spaniel. Mrs Jean Howson-Smith, 73, of Fielding Street, Rishton, suffered a
broken thumb as she tried to protect her pet, Elsa, from the bull terrier-type
dog.



LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                               February 13, 2001

Shop woman blinded in spray attack terror

SECTION: News, Pg.2

LENGTH: 257 words


A NOTTINGHAM shop owner has spoken of her terror after being attacked in her
newsagent's.

Jasbender Nijjar of Jaspal's News at Nottingham Road, Basford, was blinded for
two hours when a thief sprayed her in the face with a chemical spray while she
was serving.

Now, the 34-year-old mother of three is unable to close her eyes without his
image coming back to haunt her.

Mrs Nijjar said: "I have not been able to sleep properly since the attack and
keep getting headaches as well as a pain in my chest.

"When he sprayed that stuff in my face I did not think I would ever see again.

"I was screaming and the three of the paper girls who were in the shop at the
time helped by pouring water over my eyes.

"Yesterday I was upstairs crying my eyes out so I tried to go downstairs to do
some work. But around about the time when the original attack happened my legs
went to jelly.

"I was scared for my children who were upstairs at the time."

The man was described as black, in his 20s and 5ft 10in.

He grabbed the shop's till containing GBP 300 after jumping over the counter and
spraying Mrs Nijjar in the face.

Just before the attack, which happened on Sunday at 11.10am, the man had entered
the shop twice and hung around outside for about ten minutes.

He had a goatee beard and was wearing a dark wooly hat and dark top and bottoms
believed to be a boiler suit.

Inspector Peter Crawley said: "This was a terrible premeditated attack

"We would appeal for anyone with any knowledge to come forward as soon as
possible."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Nottingham Evening Post

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               February 13, 2001

Football stars 'beat student unconscious';
 COURT HEARS OF LEEDS UNITED PLAYERS' BOOZY NIGHT OUT; Asian attacked after
terror chase

BYLINE: Peter Beal ;Ashley Broadley

SECTION: News, Pg.7

LENGTH: 792 words


THREE Leeds United footballers launched a violent street attack on a young Asian
student, a court was told yesterday.

England internationals Lee Bowyer and Jonathan Woodgate and Leeds reserve team
striker Tony Hackworth joined in an assault in which 20-year-old Sarfraz Najeib
was kicked and punched repeatedly while he lay unconscious on the ground, a jury
at Hull Crown court was told.

Woodgate, 21, a defender who has played for England, was seen to jump on the
student's body with both feet during the drink-fuelled attack, said Nicholas
Campbell QC, prosecuting.

He said that after the assault 24-year-old England Under-21 midfielder Bowyer
was seen emotionally embracing another of the alleged attackers, Neal Caveney,
21, a friend of Woodgate.

Mr Campbell said the embrace was because of "the victory they believed they had
won".

Mr Najeib was left with fractures to his nose, cheek and leg and two black eyes
and a bite mark to his cheek, together with cuts and bruises.

Bowyer, of Leeds; Woodgate, of Middlesbrough; Hackworth, 20, of Leeds; and
Caveney, of Middlesbrough, together with Paul Clifford, 21, of Middlesbrough,
deny causing grievous bodily harm with intent to Mr Najeib, of Rotherham, South
Yorkshire. They also deny affray.

Woodgate, Caveney and Clifford, together with Leeds Utd player Michael Duberry,
24, also plead not guilty to conspiring to pervert the course of justice.

The jury heard that Mr Najeib, his brother Shahzad and three friends were chased
by the accused after a confrontation outside the Majestyk nightclub in Leeds
shortly after midnight on Wednesday January 12, last year where they had been
attending a students' night.

All the defendants, except Duberry, had been drinking in Leeds city centre with
friends, with some visiting a lap dancing bar, before going to the club.

After one of their party was asked to leave there was trouble outside the club,
where Mr Najeib's group, who had not been drinking, were just leaving, and
paused to see what was happening.

Mr Campbell said one of the group of white males then struck Mr Najeib on the
back of the head, knocking him to the floor.

Mr Najeib was then seen to run towards the group, where he punched or pushed one
of them.

The Asian group then fled, pursued by the white males.

A taxi driver noticed one of the Asians was "somewhat behind his friends", Mr
Campbell said.

Two window-cleaners also witnessed the chase.

"They saw a group of Asian lads and a group of white lads, " said Mr Campbell.

"At first he (one of the window-cleaners) believed they were mates but he heard
shouts from the white group to this effect: 'Come on, then'.

"As a fan of football he recognised Jonathan Woodgate and he saw Jonathan
Woodgate fall over.

"He thought to himself that he did not think his manager David O'Leary would be
that impressed. He then saw Jonathan Woodgate get to his feet and run off
limping."

They saw the group catch up with Mr Najeib, who was lagging behind, and was
thrown forcefully against a wall.

The group then surrounded the student and began kicking and punching him.

Mr Campbell said: "He put up no resistance and the impression of the witnesses
was that he was quickly rendered unconscious."

The two witnesses then saw Woodgate and Bowyer appear round the corner and join
in the attack on Mr Najeib "by kicking and punching him with some considerable
force".

Mr Campbell said: "Jonathan Woodgate, wearing a distinctive grey top, was seen
to step back from the stricken student and jump up with both feet in the air,
landing with great force on his body."

Mr Campbell said before the attack ended one of the group, later identified as
Clifford, was seen to bend down towards Mr Najeib and bite him on his cheek.

"Sarfraz Najeib carries the marks of that to this day, " he said.

Mr Campbell said that events of the night were very confused "and the violence
that ensued was violence that was shocking to those who observed it".

Mr Campbell said Mr Najeib recalled being tripped from behind during the chase
and falling against a wall.

"From that moment on he recalls nothing, which is perhaps not surprising because
during the assault that followed he was kicked repeatedly about the face, head
and body and witnesses formed the view that he was still being beaten while
unconscious."

Mr Campbell said Mr Najeib's brother Shahzad said he remembered one of the group
leaving the attack on his brother, coming over and punching him in the face
several times, knocking him to the ground.

Mr Campbell said that Duberry had not been drinking, and had driven Woodgate and
four of his friends to his home in Woodlesford.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               February 14, 2001

Seven killed in bus driver terror attack on Israeli soldiers

BYLINE: Theodore Levite

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 475 words


A BUS driven by a Palestinian deliberately mowed down a group of Israeli
soldiers today, killing at least seven and injuring 12.

Witnesses said the bus drove at speed at the soldiers and other civilians as
they waited at a bus stop in southern Tel Aviv. The vehicle, which belonged to
the main Israeli bus company, did not stop after mowing down the group of 20 or
more people but raced southwards towards the city of Ashdod.

However, after the bus had driven about 10 miles police opened fire, hitting the
driver, a Palestinian from the Gaza Strip, and the bus crashed into the back of
a truck and stopped, witnesses said. There were conflicting reports as to
whether the driver was killed, or seriously wounded.

Paramedics said at least 10 people were injured and witnesses said seven had
been killed.

The bus, owned by the Egged company, had been transporting Palestinian workers
from the Gaza Strip to Israel. Egged bus company spokesman Ron Rattner said the
driver was a Palestinian who had clearance from security services to drive
workers into Israeli territory.

Unconfirmed reports said that a search of the bus had produced several explosive
charges in the vehicle.

The attack would appear to be in retaliation for events yesterday when Israeli
gunship helicopters roared over the northern Gaza strip, firing at and killing a
Palestinian Fatah activist.

It was the first helicopter gun-ship intervention in two months and a clear sign
that violence is accelerating sharply since last week's election of hard-liner
Ariel Sharon as the new Israeli prime minister.

Outgoing prime minister Ehud Barak is still officially in charge, but as
negotiations with Sharon to form a government of national unity appear to be
close to success, Palestinians fear that Sharon is already calling the shots.

Barak, who announced after his resounding defeat last week that he was retiring
from politics, now appears likely to re-emerge in a new cabinet as defence
minister.

Police chief Shlomo Aharonishky told Israel Radio that police pursued the bus as
it fled the bus stop, near the city of Holon, until the vehicle collided with a
truck.

He said he was "absolutely certain" that the hit-and-run was a terror attack.

"A number of shots were fired, at the moment the bus was stopped.

The driver inside the bus was apparently seriously wounded," Aharonishky said.
Earlier reports indicated the driver had been killed," he said.

"We can report seven killed and another 10 or so who were wounded, among them a
number of seriously wounded," he said. "We understood fairly quickly that
apparently we are speaking of an attack."

At the scene several bodies covered by blankets lay by the roadside, as
paramedics led away dazed survivors. Shoes, jackets and personal belongings were
strewn across the road.


LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               February 15, 2001

Violence fears stalk hospital;
 Gun attack latest in RVH wave of terror

BYLINE: By Nigel Gould, Health Correspondent

LENGTH: 417 words


FEARS were growing today for the safety of staff in Ulster hospitals after a
Royal worker was viciously assaulted by armed robbers.

And the Belfast Telegraph has learned that last night's attack, during which the
hospital plumber was held at gun-point, was the latest in a number of incidents
recently at the Royal.

In one incident, a nurse had her handbag snatched by a hooded knife-wielding
attacker, as she walked from the hospital's accident and emergency unit to the
car park after a night shift.

It is understood there have been several similar attacks in the Royal car park.

Not all attacks, however, have been reported.

Hospitals right across Northern Ireland have also had staff attacked - and after
paramilitary threats on Mater staff, health union Unison were today holding the
first of a series of public protests at the Crumlin Road.

The Royal College of Nursing said it had received a number of recent calls from
nurses right across Northern Ireland who had been assaulted or robbed.

In the latest incident, robbers pointed a gun at a female member of staff at the
Royal's Biggart House accommodation block - and demanded cash.

They then turned the gun on a plumber and pulled the trigger several times - but
it failed to go off.

The intruders fled with money after kicking the man in the face and head. He was
today recovering in hospital where his condition was described as stable.

Patricia McKeown, of health union Unison, described the incident as appalling
and called on the hospital to review its security.

A Royal spokes- woman said they were investigating the incident and added they
were appalled that anyone would carry out such an assault on hospital property.

But the hospital also said security had been reviewed and stepped up after
recent attacks on nurses.

More internal buses for staff have been put on and lighting has been improved.

In addition, staff are encouraged to think about their personal security - by
walking in pairs or groups, particularly at night.

Already, though, a series of major security measures are up and running at the
Royal - as in a number of other hospitals across the province.

Meanwhile, Craig- avon Area Hospital has also stepped up its security after
recent incidents.

A spokeswoman revealed that in recent months, staff members have had cars stolen
and wrecked by vandals and there were 60 attacks on staff, particularly nurses,
in the casualty unit over the last year.


LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               February 20, 2001

My Samurai sword terror;
Attacker was on top of me. His eyes bulged-- he wanted to kill me, says MP

BYLINE: Clare Kitchen

SECTION: Pg. 40

LENGTH: 703 words


AN MP described yesterday how he fought off a constituent who lunged at him with
a samurai sword in an attack in which his assistant died.

Nigel Jones told a court that during a terrifying struggle he looked into the
face of his assailant Robert Ashman, who was lying on top of him.

'I saw Mr Ashman's eyes bulging and very determined, wanting to kill me,' the
52-year- old Liberal Democrat said.

The pair were grappling on a sofa in the Cheltenham MP's constituency office. Mr
Jones told a jury that he clung on to the 3ft blade as he fought for his life
'He was trying to do as much damage as possible to my hands,' he told Bristol
Crown Court.

'He kept twiddling the sword which was chafing my hands.

'I was just concentrating on hanging on to the sword and waiting for the police
or someone to turn up.

'The more it went on, I was aware that the receptionist was unable to raise the
alarm and the police may never come.' Then there was a bang, which he believed
was his assistant Andrew Pennington smashing an object on the attacker's head.

Ashman suddenly got off him.

Mr Pennington yelled at the MP to get out.

Seeing the office door open, Mr Jones escaped and ran down the High Street to
get help.

Mr Pennington remained to confront Ashman. He was found dying on the office
floor.

His wounds included six where the sword had passed right through his body.

Mr Jones needed 57 stitches following the attack at the office in Cheltenham in
January last year. A tendon in one hand was severed and the tip of his little
finger was sliced off.

The MP was giving evidence to a jury which must decide whether Ashman, 50, is
responsible for killing 39-year- old Mr Pennington and attempting to kill Mr
Jones.

Ashman, a father- of-two from Cheltenham, has already been declared mentally
unfit to stand trial for murder.

Paul Garlick QC, prosecuting, said the attack on Mr Jones was premeditated and
the subsequent death of Mr Pennington, a county councillor, one of 'horrifying
violence'.

'The killing by Ashman bore all the hallmarks of a ceremonial or sacrificial
killing,' Mr Garlick said.

The court heard that Ashman, who regularly took his problems to the MP's
surgeries, walked into the office with the samurai sword concealed under a long
winter coat.

He had gone to see Mr Jones to discuss a demand he had received from the Inland
Revenue which he feared was going to make him bankrupt.

After a short conversation with the MP about a letter he wanted him to send,
Ashman began to ramble.

Then, Mr Jones said, he went quiet for a moment and began to unbutton his coat
with the words, 'I'll tell you what I am going to do. I'm going to do this.'
Raising the sword in front of him as if in some part of a ceremony, Ashman then
swung it forward and drove it towards the MP's chest.

'For a second I did nothing at all but when the tip of the sword got within
three inches of my chest my heart my reflexes took over and I turned to the
right and I grabbed the blade of the sword as he lunged at me,' said Mr Jones.

The pair fell on the sofa, with Ashman on top of the MP, growling 'Yes, yes'.

'The sword was under my body with my hands on it under my paunch,' Mr Jones
said.

'It's the only time in my life I have been grateful for having a paunch.'

When Mr Jones managed to flee, 'Linford Christie would have had trouble keeping
up with me, I was desperate to raise the alarm', he said.

Ashman's lawyer Roger Everest suggested to Mr Jones that Mr Pennington might
have received his fatal wounds as the MP and the defendant struggled with the
sword.

Asked if it was possible he had accidentally driven the sword into his assistant
as he fought with Ashman, Mr Jones replied: 'I didn't drive the sword into
anywhere.

'I just held on to the sword until eventually the defendant's weight was off
me.' He heard Mr Pennington shout, 'Go, Nigel' as he fled.

He was certain not only that his friend was alive when he left but that Mr
Pennington had saved his life.

'He chose to stay to get the defendant,' he said.

'It was the bravest act that I have ever experienced, and he saved my life.'

The trial continues.


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 22, 2001

Cadet injured in blast at TA base: Fears of attack prompt anti-terrorist
response

BYLINE: Nick Hopkins and Rebecca Allison

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 363 words


An explosion at a Territorial Army base in west London last night seriously
injured a 14-year-old boy and prompted an immediate anti-terrorist response amid
fears that the capital could again be targeted by dissident republican groups.

A cadet apparently picked up a device, possibly somewhere outside the centre in
South Africa Road, White City, and was holding it when it went off at 7.10pm.

A TA sergeant described the blast as sounding like "two trains colliding".

The teenager was taken to the Westminster and Chelsea hospital suffering from
serious injuries - including a severed left hand - as a team from Scotland
Yard's anti-terrorist branch were mobilised.

Scotland Yard played down any involvement by terrorist organisations. But the
level of police response indicated the concern regarding an attempt by
republican groups to pursue a mainland campaign.

The surrounding area was cordoned off and the nearby tube station closed, but
residents were not evacuated.

Last night detectives were still clearing up the debris in side the base - which
is the headquarters of the Fourth Battalion Parachute Regiment 10 (London)
company - and were trying to establish what kind of device was responsible.

Police confirmed that no coded warning was received and an initial examination
of the remains of the device by forensic experts suggested it was not the work
of terrorists.

Chief Superintendent Anthony Wills, officer in charge, said: "Terrorism would
not be our first line of inquiry."

He said it was very unlikely the explosion was caused by munitions used by the
TA.

Mr Wills said the injured boy found the explosive device some way from the base,
and carried it in.

He added: "He is very ill and is being looked after in hospital." It is
understood that his left hand was blown off, and he suffered serious chest
injuries.

Last night his parents were at his bedside.

Scotland Yard sources con firmed it was too early to say what had caused the
explosion, but said there was nothing at this stage to suggest it was in any way
linked to previous attacks in the capital by the splinter republican group, the
Real IRA.


LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           February 23, 2001, Friday

MAN'S PISTOL TERROR IN LATEST CAR-JACK ATTACK;
 FORD FOCUS STOLEN

BYLINE: Mark Cowan

SECTION: ROP; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 300 words


A MIDLAND man today told of the terrifying moment a masked teenager thrust a
pistol into his face and demanded the keys to his new car.

The man, who asked not to be named, was in a telephone kiosk in Solihull when he
was confronted by two armed raiders at 11.40pm on Monday.

He is the latest victim of a car-jacking craze to have occurred in the town in
recent months.

The man had stopped on Yew Tree Lane, to make a call when the kiosk door was
flung open and he came face to face with the barrel of a gun.

Despite grappling with the armed man, the keys to his Ford Focus car, purchased
just two months ago, were snatched from him.

'It was very frightening,' said the man, from Coleshill.

'I had just locked the car and gone into the phone box, but before I had chance
to make a call two men with hoods and masks stuck a gun in my face.' The raiders
sped off in the car along the Damson Parkway followed by two accomplices driving
a white Ford Fiesta.

The Ford Focus was yesterday spotted in the city centre and police later found
it dumped in Ladywood. Two men in the car escaped.

Forensic officers are now testing the car for evidence. A Gibson CL20 electric
guitar in the car was stolen.

Police are hunting two black men in their late teens, about 5ft 7ins, and of
medium build. They were both wearing dark clothing and had their faces covered.

Anyone with information about the incident should call detectives at Solihull
CID on 0121 712 6000.

A pensioner was critically ill in hospital today with a fractured skull after
his car was also hijacked.

The 72-year-old received the head injury when his Vauxhall Astra was stolen from
a shopping centre in Shenley Hill, Northfield, Birmingham.

The car was later dumped and set ablaze in Hawkesley.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               February 28, 2001

Girl in needle attack terror

BYLINE: Catherine Smyth (author email csmyth@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 387 words

DATELINE: St. Helens



AN ANGRY mother is alerting clubbers in the area to be on their guard following
an horrific assault during a night out in St Helens when her daughter was
injected by a mystery attacker with a hypodermic needle.

The girl from Haydock, who does not wish to be identified, was out with friends
in a popular town centre nightclub and as they were finishing off their drinks,
ready to come home, a male approached the girl from behind and 'pinched' her as
he passed.

But the girl then realised that the male had actually stuck something in her and
she fainted shortly afterwards.

When the young woman later recovered, she complained of bright lights,
dizziness, a high temperature and a raging thirst.

The victim was escorted out of the club by friends and taken home in a black
cab."

The victim did not notify her parents of the incident until the following Monday
morning when she was immediately taken to St Helens Hospital.

Doctors there confirmed that the girl had been injected with a needle and she
was treated for hepatitis as a precautionary measure. There were also
suggestions there that the needle may have contained the so-called 'date rape'
drug and the girl will now have to see a haematology consultant for further
investigations.

The girl's mother added: "This is our worst nightmare come true, words cannot
describe how we feel. All parents worry when their children are out, but to have
this sort of assault when they are totally innocent is beyond us. I hope this
imbecile is proud of himself for the worry he has caused. We wonder if his
parents would like this sort of thing done to him or even worse, whether they
know he is doing this."

She now wants to warn other parents of the dangers for their children: "I hope
this will alert people to the dangers of what can happen and if anyone knows of
this idiot who is doing this to young people, go to the police as we have to try
and stop this maniac from doing this before a tragedy happens. "

The victim's parents would like to thank the three friends who helped their
daughter get home safely that night and Gail for taking her to the hospital.

Merseyside Police confirmed that the incident had been reported, but added that
they were not aware of any other similar incidents within St Helens town centre.


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             March 04, 2001, Sunday

The greatest terror strikes by daylight PANIC ATTACKS

BYLINE: By PAUL SIEVEKING

SECTION: Pg. 39

LENGTH: 616 words

A correspondent, Mr L--, writes to me about an odd experience he had one
November morning seven years ago, when he was 25. "I took a walk in Walesby
Woods near Market Rasen, Lincolnshire," he said. "Suddenly, an odd feeling came
over me and I thought I must get back to the car, parked about a mile away.

"At that time, I weighed about 17 stone, not built for speed, but I ran all the
way and I have never run so fast in my life. I drove wildly for about 10 miles
or so, then pulled off the road and felt fine. I don't know why I panicked like
that."

While the conventional habitat of ghosts and Gothic terrors is confined spaces
in twilight or darkness, the terrifying feelings of dread that can overwhelm in
the middle of the day in open country belong to a different realm entirely. The
word "panic" derives from the Greek god of the countryside, and Pan is
traditionally encountered at noon or at least in full daylight. In E F Benson's
novel The Angel of Pain (1906), a man is frightened to death in the New Forest
after encountering the cloven-hoofed god.

In her autobiography Time out of Mind, the medium and author Joan Grant
described how, one beautiful September day in 1928, she went for a walk with her
husband Leslie near Rothiemurchus in the Scottish Highlands.

"Suddenly I was seized with such terror that I turned and in panic fled back
along the path. Leslie ran after me, imploring me to tell him what was wrong. I
could only spare breath enough to tell him to run faster, faster. Something -
utterly malign, four-legged and yet obscenely human, invisible and yet solid
enough for me to hear the pounding of its hooves, was trying to reach me. If it
did I should die, for I was far too frightened to know how to defend myself. I
had run about half a mile when I burst through an invisible barrier behind which
I was safe."

Some years later, the local doctor told Grant that two hikers had been found
dead at the location of her terror. Both were young men, apparently in perfect
health. "I put 'heart failure' on the chit," said the doctor, "but it is my
considered opinion that they died of fright."

Pan, of course, is also known for playing his pipes. I have received several
first-hand accounts of hearing distant, untraceable music; Mr S--, from
Wolverhampton, heard it in many locations - Bridgnorth, Bourton-on-the-Water,
Saundersfoot, Tenby. "As a child it never struck me as particularly strange," he
said. "It appeared to be coming from a fair distance away . . . The music always
had a calming effect and lifted my spirits."

One bright, windy afternoon, Mr G-- from Brighton was walking away from the
South Downs Way through a beech wood towards the village of Cocking, West
Sussex. As he sat on a log and consulted a map, he became aware of the distant
sound of children laughing and shouting, coming from the direction he had just
been walking. He expected a group of children to appear but the sound never got
any closer. Feeling light-headed, he retraced his steps. The sound faded as he
climbed and ceased altogether as he reached the South Downs Way, which was
deserted as far as he could see.

Walking in the Charlton Forest nearby the next day, he heard the same sound
again, only this time it appeared to be coming from all directions. He searched
the whole area, but he was alone. After about five minutes, the sound gradually
faded. This phenomenon is a variation on the so-called "hummadruz", a sound
typically heard on sunny afternoons in the country, variously described as a
hum, a drone, or a buzz.

I would be interested to hear of any first-hand experiences similar to those
described here.

Paul Sieveking is editor of Fortean Times

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 March 5, 2001

Stage-managing terror attacks <> Stage-managing terror attacks;
  Politicians must not be deflected by opportunist violence

LENGTH: 387 words


Neither the timing nor the target of the weekend bomb attack in London was any
coincidence. By detonating a car bomb outside the BBC's headquarters on Saturday
night, dissident republicans callously hoped to strike fear into the hearts of
people in Britain and to secure maximum publicity for themselves.

On both counts, the terrorists behind this dastardly outrage will claim to have
succeeded. They know that one bomb attack in London always results in much more
coverage than a dozen such explosions in Northern Ireland. Inevitably, the blast
dominated all the Sunday news bulletins.

The choice of target was equally cynical. Film crews were on hand and footage of
the explosion has now gone to the four corners of the world. Momentarily,
Ireland and its troubles are back in the international spotlight.

Another factor may have been a desire to seek revenge on the BBC for the
Panorama programme about the Omagh bomb. If this is the case, it represents an
assault on freedom of speech which all democrats must resist.

Scotland Yard's warning that Britain is once again in the grip of a terrorist
campaign is deeply disturbing. While the public must be protected, the security
forces have to strike a balance. The dissidents would love nothing more than to
see draconian measures being introduced which would bring London grinding to a
halt.

Although the BBC was the target, nobody should have any doubt that the bombers'
main objective was to further destabilise the peace process. But the Real IRA
and its cohorts have no alternative to offer, apart from a return to senseless
atrocity and further bloodshed.

There is a danger, however, that any political vacuum would enable republican
dissidents - and loyalist extremists as well - to gain strength. The best answer
to the men of violence is for the pro-agreement parties to redouble their
efforts to square the circle of weapons, watchtowers and policing.

The nightmare of the last 30 years provides proof positive that violence does
not work. Those who urge a return to the dark days of terrorism must be
rejected.

The path to a lasting peace was never going to be easy, but the politicians must
not allow themselves to be deflected by the dissidents. The future lies in
dialogue and democracy, not in the bullet and bomb.


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 March 5, 2001

UK goes on terror alert after BBC bomb <> UK goes on terror alert;
  Incident part of 'murderous attacks'

LENGTH: 579 words


BRITAIN was on high alert for terrorist attacks today after a car bomb exploded
outside the BBC's London headquarters.

The blast outside BBC Television Centre in Wood Lane, west London, early
yesterday morning was part of an ongoing campaign of "murderous attacks" by the
Real IRA, said Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of the Anti
-Terrorist Branch.

The dissident terror group was responsible for the August 1998 Omagh bombing in
which 29 people were killed.

"It is quite clear that we are dealing with ruthless terrorists who are prepared
to use ruthless tactics without any care for the consequences of their actions,"
Mr Fry said.

Police arrived at the BBC after two coded warnings were received, one at a
London hospital and another at a charitable organisation, saying a bomb had been
planted.

Only the prompt action of the emergency services in evacuating the BBC building
and nearby residents avoided certain death as the blast from 10-20lbs of high
explosives damaged nearby buildings.

Experts were trying to conduct a controlled explosion when the bomb detonated,
leaving one railway worker with minor injuries.

The device was packed inside a red taxi with a black roof - registration D902
GYH - that was parked outside the BBC main entrance on the wrong side of the
road with its headlights on.

It had been bought by a man who spoke with a Northern Irish accent from a dealer
in Edmonton, north London, for (GBP) 300 on Saturday morning. He was white,
about 30 years old and 6ft tall, wearing a short jacket and a baseball cap.

Detectives are linking the blast to last year's bomb at Hammersmith Bridge, a
device placed on a railway line at Acton and the rocket attack on the MI6
building at Vauxhall, London.

Mr Fry could not say what type of high explosive was used in the attack but said
it pointed to a disturbing growth of terrorist cells on the mainland.

Urging the public to be vigilant, he said: "Colleagues in the RUC would probably
say the numbers are in the hundreds but growing, and that is a worrying trend.

"It is evidence of their willingness through this campaign, despite the peace
process, to bring their murderous attacks to the mainland and to London."

Police could not rule out a connection between the BBC explosion and the blast
at a Territorial Army barracks in London that blinded and maimed cadet Stephen
Menary (14) on February 21.

A controlled explosion was carried out yesterday on a suspect vehicle near
London's Victoria Station.

Downing Street branded the BBC bombing a "cowardly act", saying: "Those
responsible can be in no doubt as to our determination to track them down and
bring them to justice.

"There are those outside the peace process who are set on trying to turn the
clock back to the days before the Good Friday Agreement."

The bomb could have been planted as revenge for last October's BBC Panorama
programme which investigated the Omagh bombing, the worst atrocity in the 30
years of the Troubles.

Mr Fry said: "It could be retaliation. I cannot ignore that possibility as being
a motive for this attack."

Northern Ireland First Minister David Trimble believed the Real IRA had targeted
London because of recent failed attacks in Ebrington barracks in Londonderry and
Claudy RUC station.

"So these actions may be designed to try to destabilise and frustrate the
efforts of the Government to secure the peace process," he said.


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             March 5, 2001, Monday

BRITAINPUT ON TERROR ATTACKALERT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 118 words


BRITAIN was on high alert for terrorist attacks today after a car bomb exploded
outside the BBC's London HQ yesterday.

The blast was part of an ongoing campaign of "murderous attacks" by the Real
IRA, said Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry.

The dissident terror group was responsible for the 1998 Omagh bombing in which
29 people died.

The bomb could have been planted as revenge for last October's BBC Panorama
programme which investigated the Omagh bombing.

A 29-YEAR-OLD Irishman has been charged with offences under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act.

The man was arrested in the garrison town of Colchester.

Police said there was nothing to link the man to the BBC blast.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLAST DAMAGE: The BBC building.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 March 5, 2001

Police warn of more terror attacks after London blast;Britain on alert after
Real IRA's BBC bomb

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 433 words


BRITAIN was on high alert for terrorist attacks today after a car bomb exploded
outside the BBC's London headquarters.

The blast outside BBC Television Centre in Wood Lane, west London, early
yesterday morning was part of an ongoing campaign of "murderous attacks" by the
Real IRA, said Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of the Anti
-Terrorist Branch.

The dissident terror group was responsible for the August 1998 Omagh bombing in
which 29 people were killed.

"It is quite clear that we are dealing with ruthless terrorists who are prepared
to use ruthless tactics without any care for the consequences of their actions,"
Mr Fry said.

Police arrived at the BBC after two coded warnings were received, one at a
London hospital and another at a charitable organisation, saying a bomb had been
planted. The prompt action of the emergency services in evacuating the BBC
building and nearby residents avoided certain death as the blast from 10-20lbs
of high explosives damaged buildings.

Experts were trying to conduct a controlled explosion when the bomb detonated,
leaving one railway worker with minor injuries.

The device was packed inside a red taxi with a black roof - registration D902
GYH - that was parked outside the BBC main entrance on the wrong side of the
road with its headlights on.

It had been bought by a man who spoke with a Northern Irish accent from a dealer
in Edmonton, north London, for £300 on Saturday morning. He was white, about 30
years old and 6ft tall, wearing a short jacket and a baseball cap.

Detectives are linking the blast to last year's bomb at Hammersmith Bridge, a
device placed on a railway line at Acton and the rocket attack on the MI6
building at Vauxhall, London.

Mr Fry said it pointed to a disturbing growth of terrorist cells on the
mainland.

Urging the public to be vigilant, he said: "Colleagues in the RUC would probably
say the numbers are in the hundreds but growing, slowly but growing, and that is
a worrying trend.

"It is evidence of their willingness through this campaign, despite the peace
process, to bring their murderous attacks to the mainland and to London."

Downing Street branded the BBC bombing a "cowardly act".

A spokesman said : "There are those outside the peace process who are set on
trying to turn the clock back to the days before the Good Friday Agreement."

It is believed the bomb could have been planted as revenge for last October's
BBC Panorama programme which investigated the Omagh bombing, the worst atrocity
in 30 years of the Northern Ireland troubles.

LOAD-DATE: March 06, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BLASTED: shattered windows at the BBC Television Centre in London after
the Real IRA bomb attack

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 5, 2001

Bomb threatens peace process: Real IRA blast rocks BBC studios: Warning of more
attacks: Police fear two terror campaigns on mainland

BYLINE: Nick Hopkins and Rosie Cowan

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 845 words


The Northern Ireland peace process was put in further jeopardy last night when
security sources revealed that members of the Provisional IRA have been
conducting reconnaissance missions in England, raising fears of a two-pronged
terrorist threat to Britain that could shatter the Good Friday accord.

The revelations came as Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch warned that a bomb
blast early yesterday morning outside the BBC Television Centre in Shepherd's
Bush, west London, was almost certainly the work of the dissident group, Real
IRA, and is likely to be followed by further attacks in "the coming days and
weeks".

The bomb, which had been hidden in a London taxi bought on Saturday, exploded at
12.30am.

One railway worker at the White City tube station opposite was slightly injured.
Windows in nearby buildings were shattered and homes up to 100 yards away were
showered with debris.

The bomb was packed with up to 20lb of high explosive and may have been planted
at the BBC in revenge for a Panorama programme which named Real IRA members
suspected of detonating the bomb in Omagh that killed 29 people.

Scotland Yard, MI5 and the RUC are now aware that members of the Provisional
IRA, which has observed the ceasefire, have been actively involved in
reconnaissance activities for several months.

The Northern Ireland Office was informed on Saturday that a 23-year-old man
arrested last Tuesday by police near Colchester Garrison in Essex - a Parachute
Regiment base and one of the army's biggest barracks - is a suspected
Provisional IRA quartermaster from Derry. He is still being questioned under the
terms of the Terrorism Act 2000.

Essex police are also looking for an accomplice, who is thought to be a
Provisional IRA terrorist released from jail under the provisions of the Good
Friday agreement.

"The RUC is positive they are Provisional IRA, not dissidents," said a source.
"We don't know exactly what they were up to. It looks as if it was some kind of
a reconnaissance. We have found no weapons or explosives. It was preparation for
something."

Though the Provisional IRA has supported the political initiative, it is
understood senior figures in the movement have been privately briefing the "war
is not over" to ensure few members are tempted to join the dissident ranks.

Security sources said the Provisional IRA might want to show that "at the
appropriate time, they would be prepared to go back to the business of war."

Whatever the intentions of Provisional IRA gunmen, Scotland Yard warned
yesterday that there was a growing and continuous threat posed by dissidents
whose bomb at the BBC was designed to "maim, injure and kill".

Deputy assistant commissioner Alan Fry, head of the anti-terrorist branch, said
nobody had claimed responsibility for the blast, but confirmed that a secret
codeword used in a telephone warning to a hospital was recognised as the Real
IRA.

He said: "It is quite clear that we are dealing with ruthless terrorists who are
prepared to use ruthless tactics without any care for the consequences of their
actions."

Although it is thought this is the first attack in England since last September,
Real IRA has been active in Northern Ireland, recruiting and training
"cleanskins" as well as disaffected provisionals.

First Minister David Trimble said he believed the dissidents targeted London
because of recent failed attacks at Ebrington barracks in Derry and Claudy RUC
station.

"(Among) the reasons why it may be trying to pull off a spec tacular is because
of the efforts the government is making to persuade the mainstream IRA to honour
its obligations on decommissioning and the fact that an election may be coming
up shortly.

"These actions may be designed to try to destabilise and frustrate the efforts
of the government to secure the peace process," Mr Trimble said.

Downing Street called the bombing "a cowardly act". A spokesman said: "There are
those outside the peace process who are set on trying to turn the clock back to
the days before the Good Friday agreement."

Intensive talks to salvage Northern Ireland's faltering political process have
been continuing between the British and Irish governments and all the main
parties since before Christmas.

Republicans want further guarantees on policing reform and substantial scaling
down of military operations, especially in south Armagh, but in return, Tony
Blair wants to see real progress on IRA decommissioning.

Mr Trimble, whose Ulster Unionist party is bitterly divided over whether it
should quit the power-sharing government with Sinn Fein if the IRA does not give
up its arms, will be under huge pressure in the general election if he stays at
Stormont without a significant new move from the Provisionals.

Scotland Yard has appealed for anyone with information about the BBC bomb, or
any other suspicious activity, to call the Anti-Terrorist Hotline on 0800
789321.

Explosion at BBC, page 3 Special report on Northern Ireland at
guardian.co.uk/nireland


LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 5, 2001, Monday

BBC ATTACK: BOMBING MAY BE FORETASTE OF NEW TERROR CAMPAIGN;
 SCOTLAND YARD OFFICERS WARNED IN NOVEMBER THAT THE REAL IRA WAS LIKELY STRIKE
AGAIN WITH ITS MOST FEARED WEAPON, THE CAR BOMB

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 528 words


THE DETONATION of a car bomb on a street in London was what anti- terrorist
officers had been predicting and fearing for months.

Ever since a member of a dissident Irish republican terrorist group - almost
certainly the Real IRA - had the audacity to fire a rocket-propelled grenade
into the side of the headquarters of MI6 on the banks of the River Thames last
September, Scotland Yard and MI5 have been on a state of high alert for the next
assault.

Last November the Met's anti-terrorist branch warned that terrorists opposed to
the peace talks in Northern Ireland could be planning an attack on mainland
Britain with the sort of vehicle bomb that killed 29 people in Omagh in 1998. A
senior officer said at the time: "The most worrying form of attack, and it
brings back the spectre of Omagh, is a large vehicle bomb in a city centre with
all the butchery that enfolds."

Until now the Real IRA appears to have been content to use low-risk terror
devices at high-profile targets to maximise publicity and disruption. It is
thought to be behind a bomb that was detonated on Hammersmith Bridge, west
London, last June which caused minor damage but substantial disruption.

Six weeks later a device containing a kilogram of TNT explosive and a kitchen
clock timer was found on a railway line at Ealing, west London. This was
followed by the rocket attack on the MI6 building in Vauxhall, in which no one
was injured.

No group has claimed responsibility for any of these attacks, but the Real IRA
is thought responsible. The hard-line republicans are also believed to have been
behind a series of attacks in Northern Ireland, including a 250lb car bomb
attack on Stewartstown RUC station last July.

Although yesterday's car bomb - in which up to 20lbs of high explosives were
packed into a taxi - was detonated in the early hours of the morning following
two coded warnings, it is being seen by anti-terrorist officers as a message
that the group is stepping up a gear and next time could try and kill. The car
bomb is one of the most feared weapons of the terrorist because it is incredibly
hard to detect and acts like a huge grenade, with the vehicle splintering into
thousands of fragments that can kill indiscriminately and cause massive
destruction.

Security sources have confirmed there is at least one Real IRA active service
unit operating in London and the Met's anti-terrorist branch believes there are
"tens" of terrorists on the mainland.

The taxi bomb also gives credence to fears that the Real IRA has successfully
replicated the IRA's highly disciplined "active service units". The units,
comprising just a handful of members living apparently ordinary lives, were
designed to allow the IRA to leave operatives in London and elsewhere for long
periods without exposing themselves to capture.

The Real IRA was formed when it broke away from the Provisional IRA in 1997
because of opposition to the direction Sinn Fein was taking in the peace
process. One of its leaders is the IRA's former "quartermaster general". The
dissidents also include the IRA's former "chief of engineering" and other
experienced bomb makers.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The remains of the taxi that held the bomb being loaded on to a lorry
while police carry out a detailed investigation David Rose; A car is removed
after yesterday's explosion

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 5, 2001, Monday

POLICE WARN OF FURTHER TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: Terri Judd And Jason Bennetto

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 450 words


THE COUNTRY was warned to brace itself for renewed terrorist violence yesterday
after a car bomb exploded outside the BBC.

The explosion represents a dramatic escalation in attacks by Irish dissidents
operating on the mainland.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of the Metropolitan Police Anti
-Terrorist Branch, warned that it could be only a matter of days before we see
another "murderous" attack.

"We are unfortunately in a terrorist campaign. I fear that we will see more
attacks in the coming days and weeks and therefore it is vital that the public
are vigilant."

The explosion outside the BBC's White City Television Centre was the fourth -
possibly the fifth - and the largest bomb believed to have been the work of the
dissident republican group the Real IRA.

Anti-Terrorist Branch sources said yesterday that they believed the use of a car
bomb was a "serious escalation" in tactics. Downing Street branded the attack a
"cowardly act", saying: "Those responsible can be in no doubt as to our
determination to track them down and bring them to justice."

Last night detectives were investigating the possibility the bomb may have been
retaliation for a Panorama programme on the 1998 Omagh bombing.

The bomb, 20lbs of high explosives left in a London taxi, exploded shortly after
midnight. Its effect permeated three rooms deep into the building and right
across to the nearby London Underground station where a worker suffered cuts to
his face.

Yesterday Mr Fry said: "I have no doubt that, but for the prompt actions of the
police officers at the scene and BBC staff on site, that significant injuries
would have been caused by this device which was obviously intended to kill and
maim."

Staff had been evacuated after coded warnings were telephoned into a London
hospital and a charity. The bomb squad was trying to effect a controlled
explosion when the timed device went off at 12.30am.

BBC duty news editor Laurie Margolis said: "It was a fireball that seemed to
fill the whole road between BBC TV Centre and the tube station."

Last night detectives were trying to trace a man with a Northern Irish accent
who bought the taxi from a dealer in Pickett's Lock, Edmonton, 12 hours earlier.
Described as white, aged about 30, six foot tall and wearing a short jacket and
baseball cap, he paid pounds 300 cash for the D-registration out-of-service red
cab.

Mr Fry said he was linking the attack with the bomb at Hammersmith Bridge on
June 1, explosives left on Acton railway line on 19 July and the rocket
propelled grenade attack on the MI6 building in Vauxhall on 20 September.

Foretaste of campaign; David McKittrick, page 6

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The scene outside BBC Television Centre in west London yesterday.; The
Real IRA are thought to have planted the bomb Stefan Rousseau; The bomb, in a
London taxi, explodes outside the BBC Television Centre in White; City, west
London BBC

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 5, 2001, Monday

TERRORISTS BLAST THE BBC: BOMBERS REVENGE;
 ATTACK 'SPARKED BY PANORAMA REVELATION'

BYLINE: JEFF EDWARDS AND CHRIS HUGHES

SECTION: 3 Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 1103 words

HIGHLIGHT: BLASTED: Wrecked front of BBC TV Centre after the attack; ROBOT:
Hurled 75 yards; DEADLY: Bomb hidden in old taxi; A remote-control bomb-disposal
robot edges towards the taxi containing the 20lb Semtex device seconds before it
blows up injuring a rail worker; The bomb explodes hurling the police robot down
the street and sending flames high into the air. BBC buildings were badly
damaged in the blast; Parked cars and nearby trees are engulfed by the fireball
after yesterday's explosion at 12.30am. It is feared the attack, filmed by the
BBC and screened on Sky TV News, could mark the start of a devastating mainland
terror campaign by the Real IRA and the Provisional IRA, despite the Provos
being under a ceasefire


VENGEFUL Real IRA terrorists were blamed last night for the bombing of the BBC.

Experts said the 20lb blast was almost certainly linked to an expose by BBC TV's
Panorama which named suspects in the Omagh atrocity.

It signalled a return to a vicious mainland bombing campaign.

But, even more worryingly, it was revealed that a top team from the Provisional
IRA had also been plotting an attack. The Provos are meant to be on ceasefire.

A 23-year-old man - described as a Provo quartermaster from Londonderry - was
arrested on Tuesday after acting suspiciously near the Parachute Regiment
barracks in Colchester, Essex.

The suspect was carrying forged documents and keys to a rented flat at Sudbury,
Suffolk.

Fingerprints at the flat showed it had been used by another IRA man who was
released from jail under the Good Friday peace deal.

He is believed to have fled after his accomplice failed to return. All airports
and ferries are on alert.

The 23-year-old is being questioned under the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

A senior security source said: "The discovery that the Provos are checking out
military targets is a terrifying prospect. They may have been hoping to launch a
'spectacular' before the election.

"With the Real IRA certain to press on with more bombs it means the mainland is
now under threat from two Republican groups."

Detectives think the Real IRA terrorists - a "cell" of no more than six members
probably led by an ex-Provo - are living in west London.

They are believed to be behind last year's Hammersmith Bridge bomb, explosives
on a rail line at Acton a month later and the MI6 HQ mortar attack in September.

Appealing for the public to be vigilant, Anti-Terrorist Squad chief Deputy
Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry said: "We are in the middle of a terrorist
campaign by ruthless people. I fear we will see more attacks in coming weeks.

"I cannot ignore that it was the BBC who put out the Panorama programme on
Omagh, or ignore the possibility of retaliation."

Downing Street condemned the "cowardly" attack. A spokesman said: "Those
responsible can be in no doubt as to our determination to track them down."

In October, BBC reporter John Ware exposed several men in South Armagh, claiming
they were the Real IRA brutes behind the 1998 Omagh car bomb which killed 29.
Early yesterday, men of violence took revenge.

At 12.27am an ancient maroon London taxi parked outside the BBC TV centre in
Shepherds Bush, west London, erupted. The timed blast came 70 minutes after two
coded warnings.

A huge fireball billowed into the sky as houses up to five miles away shook.
Debris was sent flying and a man hurled from his bed.

Yet miraculously the only person injured was a rail worker hit in the face by
shards of glass.

A 100lb police robot which was probing the taxi was thrown 75 yards along the
street, narrowly missing a Scotland Yard officer.

About 30 strengthened glass windows on the BBC building were smashed. Nearby
White City underground station was damaged.

The bomb cab was destroyed and another car, believed to belong to BBC duty news
editor Laurie Margolis, was wrecked. Shock waves after the main explosion
knocked pictures off walls in nearby homes. It was only 200 yards from where
Army cadet Stephen Menary, 14, was maimed and blinded by a booby-trapped torch
left at a Territorial Army base 12 days ago in another suspected Real IRA
attack.

Mr Margolis, who saw yesterday's incident, said: "The robot fired something into
the taxi to open it up see what was inside.

"There was a spectacular fireball which filled the whole road. The car park we
were in shook."

Nearby residents on the Wood Lane Estate told how the blast blew out windows
from homes.

Craig Morris, 18, said: "I've never heard anything like it. The whole house
shook."

Mother of two Penny Jones, 49, said: "I was terrified. Tiles came off my kitchen
wall and cracks opened in my bedroom."

Tom Ryan, 53, was thrown across his 52-year-old wife Bridget and hurled from his
bed.

He said: "It blew me off my bed and on to the floor. I looked out through the
front door and a policeman told me to get back inside as a bomb had gone off."
Robert Fulton said: "There was a loud explosion and my lamp fitting came off the
wall. The sky was lit up like fireworks."

Although it has yet to be confirmed, it is believed the device was made up of
Semtex. If that is proved, it will heighten fears that dissident Republicans
have access to Provo arms dumps.

The drama began at 11.22pm on Saturday when a coded warning was received at
Charing Cross Hospital. Two minutes later, another warning was received by the
Samaritans charity.

The caller said: "There is a maroon taxi parked outside the BBC TV Centre. There
is a bomb inside set to go off at any minute."

At about 11.30, the cab drew up in a layby five yards from the centre's
reception building. It was parked on the wrong side of the road with its
headlights on.

Ten minutes later, police and bomb disposal experts arrived at the scene.
Workers in the BBC newsroom were told to evacuate, and left in about 90 seconds.

A remote-control robot known as a "wheelbarrow" was sent in to probe the cab. It
had just blasted out a side windows and was examining the inside with a
fibre-optic camera when the bomb detonated.

Police said: "It was not a controlled explosion. That was when the device was
timed to go off."

Last night, wreckage from the taxi was strewn for more than 100 yards. A
scorched black patch where the bomb went off covered a 40-yard square area of
the road.

Detectives have discovered that the cab - registration D902 GYH - was bought for
£300 at 11am on Saturday in Edmonton, north London.

Owner Alan Flockhart, 58, who runs a driver training school, only put it up for
sale that morning.

The buyer was a 6ft man aged about 30 and wearing a baseball cap and short
jacket. He spoke with a strong Ulster accent.

As the cocky bomber handed over his cash, he said: "These taxis are great
because you never get stopped by the police."

It is not known where the cab was driven so the bomb - "designed to maim or
kill" - could be packed into the boot or under the rear seat.

Mr Flockhart, who was quizzed by police for several hours, said last night: "I
don't want to comment."

Twelve hours after the blast, police carried out a controlled explosion on a
suspect car near Buckingham Palace.

Victoria tube station was closed and shoppers and tourists kept away from nearby
streets. It proved to be a false alarm.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 5, 2001, Monday

BOMBERS REVENGE TERRORISTS BLAST THE BBC;
 ATTACK 'SPARKED BY PANORAMA REVELATION'

BYLINE: JEFF EDWARDS AND CHRIS HUGHES

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 1114 words

HIGHLIGHT: BLASTED: Wrecked front of BBC TV Centre after the attack; ROBOT:
Hurled 75 yards; DEADLY: Bomb hidden in old taxi; A remote-control bomb-disposal
robot edges towards the taxi containing the 20lb Semtex device seconds before it
blows up injuring a rail worker; The bomb explodes hurling the police robot down
the street and sending flames high into the air. BBC buildings were badly
damaged in the blast; Parked cars and nearby trees are engulfed by the fireball
after yesterday's explosion at 12.30am. It is feared the attack, filmed by the
BBC and screened on Sky TV News, could mark the start of a devastating terror
campaign by the Real IRA and the Provisional IRA, despite the Provos being under
a ceasefire


VENGEFUL Real IRA terrorists were blamed last night for the bombing of the BBC.

The 20lb blast was almost certainly linked to an expose by TV's Panorama which
named suspects in the Omagh atrocity.

It signalled a return to a vicious bombing campaign in Britain.

But, even more worryingly, it was disclosed that a top team from the Provisional
IRA had also been plotting an attack. The Provos are meant to be on ceasefire.

A 23-year-old man - described as a Provo quartermaster from Derry - was arrested
on Tuesday after acting suspiciously near the Parachute Regiment barracks in
Colchester, Essex.

The suspect was carrying a forged driving licence and passport, and keys to a
rented flat at Sudbury, Suffolk.

Fingerprints at the flat showed it had been used by another IRA man who was
released from jail under the Good Friday Agreement.

He is believed to have fled after his accomplice failed to return. All airports
and ferry terminals have been alerted.

The 23 year old is still being questioned under the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

A senior security source said: "The discovery that the Provos are checking out
military targets is a terrifying prospect. They may have been hoping to launch a
spectacular before the election.

"With the Real IRA certain to press on with more bombs it means the mainland is
now under threat from two republican groups."

Detectives think the terrorists - a "cell" of no more than six committed members
probably led by a former Provo activist - are living in west London.

They are believed to be responsible for last year's Hammersmith Bridge bomb,
explosives on the line at Acton a month later and the MI6 headquarters mortar
attack in September last year.

Appealing for the public to be vigilant, Anti-Terrorist Squad chief Deputy
Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry said: "We are in the middle of a terrorist
campaign by ruthless people. I fear we will see more attacks in coming weeks."

Downing Street condemned the "cowardly" attack. A spokesman said: "Those
responsible can be in no doubt as to our determination to track them down."

In October, BBC reporter John Ware exposed several men in South Armagh, claiming
they were the Real IRA brutes behind the 1998 Omagh car bomb which killed 29.

Early yesterday, the men of violence took revenge. At 12.30am an ancient maroon
London taxi parked outside the BBC TV centre in Shepherds Bush, west London,
erupted. The blast came 70 minutes after two coded warnings.

A huge fireball billowed into the sky as houses up to five miles away shook.
Debris was sent flying over a wide area and a man was hurled from his bed.

Yet miraculously the only person injured was a rail worker hit in the face by
shards of glass.

A 100lb police robot which was probing the taxi was thrown 75 yards along the
street, narrowly missing a Scotland Yard officer.

Around 30 strengthened glass windows on the BBC building were smashed. Nearby
White City underground station was damaged.

The bomb cab was destroyed and another car, believed to belong to BBC duty news
editor Laurie Margolis, was wrecked. Shock waves after the main explosion
knocked pictures off walls in nearby homes.

It was only 200 yards from where Army cadet Stephen Menary, 14, was maimed and
blinded by a booby-trapped torch left outside a Territorial Army base 12 days
ago in another suspected Real IRA outrage.

Mr Margolis, who saw yesterday's incident, said: "The robot fired something into
the taxi to open it up see what was inside.

"There was a spectacular fireball which filled the whole road. The car park we
were in shook. It was followed by an intense fire on the ground as the taxi
burnt up."

Nearby residents on the Wood Lane Estate told how the blast blew out windows
from homes.

Craig Morris, 18, said: "I've never heard anything like it. The whole house
shook ."

Mother-of-two Penny Jones, 49, said: "I was terrified. Tiles came off my kitchen
wall and cracks opened in my bedroom."

Tom Ryan, 53, was thrown across his 52-year-old wife Bridget and hurled from his
bed.

He said: "It blew me off my bed and on to the floor. I looked out through the
front door and a policeman shouted at me to get back inside as a bomb had gone
off." Robert Fulton said: "There was a loud explosion and my lamp fitting came
off the wall. The sky was lit up like fireworks."

Although it has yet to be confirmed, it is believed the device was made up of
Semtex. If that is proved, it will heighten fears that dissident republicans
have access to Provo arms dumps.

The drama began at 11.22pm on Saturday when a coded warning was received at
Charing Cross Hospital. Two minutes later, another warning was received by the
Samaritans charity.

The caller said: "There is a maroon taxi parked outside the BBC TV Centre. There
is a bomb inside set to go off at any minute."

At about 11.30, the cab drew up in a layby five yards from the centre's
reception building. Ten minutes later, police and bomb disposal experts arrived
at the scene.

Workers in the BBC newsroom were told to evacuate and left the office in about
90 seconds.

A remote-control robot known as a "wheelbarrow" was sent in to probe the cab. It
had just blasted out a side window and was examining the inside with a
fibre-optic camera when the bomb detonated.

Deputy First Minister Seamus Mallon said there was no justification for violence
deployed for political ends.

He said: "Those who engage in futile attacks such as this are acting against the
democratically expressed will of the people of Ireland, North and South,
demonstrated clearly in the referendum on the Good Friday Agreement.

"We are committed to building a positive future in which we can all participate
through the full implementation of the Good Friday Agreement and by making the
devolved institutions work.

"Those responsible for this attack have no role to play in the creation of a
future free from violence and the hatred of the past."

Irish Foreign Minister Brian Cowen described the bomb as a work of "mindless
evil".

Downing Street branded the bombing a "cowardly act".

An official said: "We utterly condemn the attack. "Those responsible can be in
no doubt as to our determination to track them down and bring them to justice.

"There are those outside the peace process who are set on trying to turn the
clock back to the days before the Good Friday Agreement.

"We will not allow them to take our focus from working with all parties to move
the process on."

Lagan Valley MP Jeffrey Donaldson called on the Government to ignore demands
from republicans to scale down security.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 5, 2001, Monday

COWEN: ATTACK IS MINDLESS;
 TERRORISTS BLAST THE BBC

BYLINE: JILLY BEATTIE

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 377 words

HIGHLIGHT: CONDEMNATION: Brian Cowen


FOREIGN Minister Brian Cowen yesterday fiercely condemned the Real IRA bomb
which targeted the BBC in London last night.

He said: "This was the mindless act of people who have rejected all attempts to
bring peace to these islands, and who have no alternative to offer, except
misery and grief".

And Labour leader, Ruairi Quinn, described the blast as a despicable attack on
democracy and the right to free speech.

He said: "Those who carried out this attack do so without any support whatsoever
from the Irish people.

"It is particularly disgusting that this attack should occur at a time when the
people of Ireland and of the UK are fighting a common problem - foot-and-mouth
disease.

"Those who carried out the bombing refuse to accept the basic tenets of
democracy.

"They have no mandate from the Irish people for this kind of barbarity and they
should cease their campaign immediately."

In the North Deputy First Minister Seamus Mallon said there was no justification
for violence deployed for political ends.

The deputy leader of the SDLP said: "Those who engage in futile attacks such as
this are acting against the democratically expressed will of the people of
Ireland, north and south, demonstrated clearly in the referendum on the Good
Friday Agreement.

"We are committed to building a positive future in which we can all participate
through the full implementation of the Good Friday Agreement and by making the
devolved institutions work.

"Those responsible for this attack have no role to play in the creation of a
future free from violence and the hatred of the past."

Irish Shadow Northern Ireland secretary Andrew Mackay condemned the attack on
the BBC offices and called for a halt to the reduction of security in the
province.

He said: "We have been saying for some time that there is a serious threat, not
only in Northern Ireland but on the mainland.

"This attack illustrates how dangerous and wrong it would be to reduce the
security presence in Northern Ireland.

"The sad truth is that the Belfast Agreement has not been fully implemented to
the extent that there has been no decommissioning of illegally-held arms and
explosives; not one gun nor one ounce of Semtex has been handed in."

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                             March 5, 2001, Tuesday

UK IS ON ALERT FOR TERRORIST ATTACKS.

BYLINE: Helen William

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 384 words


BRITAIN was on high alert for terrorist attacks today after a car bomb exploded
outside the BBC's London headquarters.

The blast outside BBC Television Centre in Wood Lane, west London, early
yesterday morning was part of an ongoing campaign of "murderous attacks" by the
Real IRA, said Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of the Anti
-Terrorist Branch.

The dissident terror group was responsible for the August 1998 Omagh bombing in
which 29 people were killed.

"It is quite clear that we are dealing with ruthless terrorists who are prepared
to use ruthless tactics without any care for the consequences of their actions,
" Mr Fry said.

Police arrived at the BBC after two coded warnings were received, one at a
London hospital and another at a charitable organisation, saying a bomb had been
planted.

Only the prompt action of the emergency services in evacuating the BBC building
and nearby residents avoided certain death as the blast from 10-20lbs of high
explosives damaged nearby buildings.

Experts were trying to conduct a controlled explosion when the bomb detonated,
leaving one railway worker with minor injuries.

The device was packed inside a red taxi with a black roof - registration D902
GYH - that was parked outside the BBC main entrance on the wrong side of the
road with its headlights on.

It had been bought by a man who spoke with a Northern Irish accent from a dealer
in Edmonton, north London, for pounds 300 on Saturday morning. He was white,
about 30 years old and 6ft tall, wearing a short jacket and a baseball cap.

Detectives are linking the blast to last year's bomb at Hammersmith Bridge, a
device placed on a railway line at Acton and the rocket attack on the MI6
building at Vauxhall, London.

Mr Fry could not say what type of high explosive was used in the attack but said
it pointed to a disturbing growth of terrorist cells on the mainland. He said:
"Colleagues in the RUC would probably say the numbers are in the hundreds but
growing, slowly but growing, and that is a worrying trend."

A 29-year-old man from Londonderry was due to appear in court today charged with
offences under the Prevention of Terrorism Act, Essex Police said. A spokesman
said there was nothing to link the man to the attack on the BBC.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        March 6, 2001, Tuesday Edition 1

North on alert in wake of terrorist bomb attack - Police warning after London is
targeted

BYLINE: The Journal

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 20

LENGTH: 593 words

People in the North-East were warned to be permanently on their guard following
the terrorist attack on the BBC Television Centre in London at the weekend.The
blast in the early hours of Sunday, which left one man injured, has sparked
fears that Irish Republican dissident groups are set to embark on a renewed
campaign of terror on the British mainland.MI5 and the Special Branch have
warned regional police forces to step up security in the wake of the shock
attack which has been blamed on the Real IRA, the break-away terrorist group
which killed 29 people in the Omagh bombing in August 1998.Security advisors are
concerned the latest renewal of their hardline terrorist activities could target
people and buildings across the country, rather than just the capital.Yesterday,
a veil of secrecy was drawn over all security operations, but it is understood
the region's police forces are on a state of high alert in anticipation at
further attacks.Following the attack on the BBC, which is seen by Republican
hardliners as an arm of British Government propaganda, security arrangements at
all the Corporation's buildings, including those in Newcastle, Middlesbrough and
Carlisle, are also stepped up.Olwyn Hocking, Head of BBC in the North-East said:
"Like all broadcasters we are always vigilant and put a great emphasis on being
security conscience. However, in the wake of the bomb in London we have taken
the opportunity to stress certain things to our staff and remind them of our
procedures."Yesterday, a Scotland Yard anti-terrorist branch spokesman claimed
the attack on the BBC was likely to be followed by more attacks in the 'coming
days and weeks'. As a result, regional police forces have been told to be on
alert in a bid to thwart the latest threat to the Irish peace process.A
spokeswoman for Northumbria Police refused to reveal precise security measures
due to fears the information could be used against the force by the terrorists.
She said: "We never discuss specific levels or details of security and we are
always on a state of alert."However, our message to the general public at this
time is to be extra vigilant. If they see or hear anything suspicious, be it a
package, a person or a parked vehicle, they should contact the police
immediately."If they think they are taking a phone call warning them of a bomb
or anything else they should take down verbatim what the person says and ask
them to be specific in their details."They should also note down any accent or
background noise to try and help us trace the caller."There was a similar
message from Cumbria Police, and Durham Constabulary where a spokesman said:
"Our security is under a constant state of review and obviously external
influences like events at the weekend are part of that review."An Irish
terrorist who planted a bomb in a taxi outside BBC Television Centre may have
been involved in a road rage incident shortly before the explosion, police said
tonight.The bomber is thought to have 'cut up' another motorist in Scrubs Lane,
White City, west London, shortly before he parked the red cab late on Saturday
night.Metropolitan Police Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry said that the
driver of the taxi was involved in an altercation with the other motorist and
began shouting at him.Police believe that the Real IRA was responsible for the
blast and described the attack as cowardly and potentially lethal.Mr Fry said
that the taxi in which the bomb was packed was bought from a dealer's yard in
Edmonton, north London, just after 9am on Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2001

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 6, 2001, Tuesday

ATTACKER HAS HIRED A HITMAN TO KILL ME;
 TERROR OF SOCCER STAR

BYLINE: NICOLA TALLANT

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 302 words

HIGHLIGHT: FEAR: Trevor yesterday


A SOCCER star told last night how he feared for his life after he helped put a
vicious attacker behind bars.

Trevor Donnelly, 27, says he's in hiding from a hitman he claimed had been paid
to kill him.

The former League of Ireland star says he is a "walking target" because he gave
evidence which led to the conviction of 20-year-old Liam Byrne.

Byrne received four years in jail yesterday for causing serious harm to Donnelly
outside a fast food restaurant in Crumlin, Dublin, last April.

Byrne, from Crumlin, was on a four-year suspended sentence for firearm charges
when he savagely beat Donnelly with a baseball bat.

The Dublin Circuit Criminal Court heard yesterday that Trevor's girlfriend
Jennifer Doyle is living in a refuge after the threat.

The court was told that after the attack, Byrne told Ms Doyle: "Tell him if he
wakes up, it's bullets."

Trevor said last night: "He's got four years and I've got a life sentence out of
this.

"I have been in hiding for months now.

"I was offered £50,000 in the beginning to drop these charges, but I didn't take
it because I wanted to do the right thing.

"Now there's a bullet with my name on it."

Donnelly had to give up football as a result of the injuries he sustained when
Byrne attacked him.

The rising star , from Tallaght, Dublin, had played for Dundalk FC and went to
Leeds with Gary Kelly to play for the team.

He has suffered from dizziness and loss of memory since the attack.

He said: "I'll never play football again that is for sure.

"But if I could even get my life back, it would be something. I spend my days
looking over my shoulder.

"I'm afraid to go out. I know there is a hit on my head and I know these people
are serious."

"And all he gets is four years. He has ruined my life."

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 7, 2001

BOMB THREAT TO KEY BRIDGES;
Armed police patrol Thames to guard against terror attack

BYLINE: Justin Davenport

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 389 words


ARMED police are mounting a round-the-clock guard on London's bridges amid fears
they could be a target for terrorists.

With London on alert for a new terrorist attack, specialist officers are
patrolling the Thames in high-speed inflatable boats checking the underside of
bridges and other structures such as piers for bombs. At night, checks are
carried out by officers in boats equipped with powerful arc lights as well as by
foot patrols on the towpaths.

The security sweeps are being made by officers from the Met's Marine Support
Unit which includes a specialist armed section whose main role is to counter
possible terrorist action on the Thames in the heart of the capital.

The regular patrols are part of a London-wide police response to the new threat
from the dissident terrorists who are blamed for the car bomb at the BBC TV
centre in Shepherd's Bush on Sunday.

The river checks were first launched last year after members of the Real IRA
planted a 5lb bomb at Hammersmith Bridge which damaged the infrastructure.

The attack was the second on the bridge in four years.

Since then, a £50,000 network of closed circuit TV cameras has been installed to
monitor the bridge approaches, with the cameras linked to control rooms at
Scotland Yard. However, it is difficult to monitor the underside of the
structure and police need to carry out visual checks.

A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said:"After the Hammersmith Bridge bombing, we
stepped up security and we are patrolling all bridges. There are some which are
considered more vulnerable than others. There is a search regime which is part
of the heightened high-visibility policing."

Scotland Yard is braced for another attack in London "within weeks, if not days"
and security has been stepped up at all potential targets, including government
buildings, high-profile buildings such as the Dome and military bases.

Extra police patrols are on the streets and special checks are also being made
on possible targets such as motorway bridges.

In the past year, the group has planted three bombs and launched a rocket attack
on the MI6 building in Vauxhall.

Detectives from the Anti-Terrorist branch believe they are hunting at least one
active service unit operating in London with access to arms dumps hidden around
the capital.


LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            March 8, 2001, Thursday

ATTACK TERROR FOR CITY BUS RIDERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 203 words


BUS passengers were showered with glass and narrowly escaped injury when vandals
threw a brick through one of the windows.

Only seconds earlier, the 157 Stagecoach had dropped off several schoolchildren.

Terrified passengers were covered in shards of glass when the vandals struck
just before 8.15am yesterday, near the junction with Hen Lane and Holbrook Lane
in Holbrooks, Coventry.

Nobody was hurt but many passengers were left shaken.

One, Jean Prescott, from Newdigate Road, Bedworth, was on her way to work as an
editorial secretary at the Coventry Evening Telegraph, when the brick hit the
bus.

The 64-year-old said: "Suddenly something hit the window. The glass just
shattered and fell in over everybody. I thought it might be a gun shot at
first."

Bill Breen, operations manager at the Nuneaton depot for Stagecoach in Warwick
-shire, said the driver had seen two boys running from the scene. He believed
they had thrown the brick.

He said it would cost pounds 180 to replace the glass.

Several initiatives had been tried to stop people throwing objects at buses. The
company was now considering having plain clothes police officers on the buses,
or in cars following behind.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 9, 2001

MY TERROR AFTER 'SEX ATTACK' BY STALLONE

BYLINE: FROM CLIFF RENFREW IN LOS ANGELES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 275 words


A STRIPPER waited more than a year to file a multi-million-pound sex assault
lawsuit against Rambo star Sylvester Stallone because she was "totally
terrified" of him, she claimed yesterday.

Margie Carr, 42, who says she is a former mistress of the star, told how his
alleged attack ruined her life.

"After Stallone assaulted me at his office inside Santa Monica Bodybuilding
Centre I was totally distraught," she said. "I used to have sleepless nights
about the incident and I was really scared of him too. But eventually these
feelings turned to anger and I decided that I had to do something about it." But
Stallone hit back, saying that weeks before she filed the lawsuit she sold a
story to a US magazine claiming she was in love with him.

He claims Carr is a "totally unreliable woman" and flatly denies her story,
branding her a "clearly obsessed fan".

In her suit filed at Los Angeles Superior Court, Carr claims that father- of-two
Stallone, who is married to model Jennifer Flavin, assaulted her in February
2000 after the pair had dated one another on and off for 10 years. Her lawyer
Chris Morosoff denied that his client's suit was a publicity stunt and that they
were trying to cash in on Stallone's fame.

Her court papers state that "Stallone physically and sexually assaulted Carr in
the office at the Santa Monica Bodybuilding Centre".

They continue: "Stallone committed battery and unlawfully imprisoned her in the
office against her will for a significant period of time. With his hands he
forcibly pinned her against a wall and tore her clothes off her body and
forcibly tried to have sex with her."

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 10, 2001

MOTHER TELLS OF ROAD-RAGE TERROR ATTACK BY STAR OF CHILDREN'S SHOW; THE DAY I
FEARED THAT BUNGLE THE TV BEAR WOULD TRY TO KILL ME

BYLINE: BY BOB MCGOWAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 664 words


THE man who enthralled millions of children by dressing up as cuddly Bungle the
bear in the TV show Rainbow was yesterday ordered to keep the peace after claims
that he tried to attack a woman driver in a road-rage drama.

Mother-of-five Christine Marc- oni, 40, said she feared that actor Stanley
Bates, 58, would try to kill her as he subjected her to a terrifying ordeal.

Mrs Marconi said Bates chased her for three miles, forced her to pull over and
then grabbed her through the window of her Fiat Punto.

She said Bates was red in the face and shook her violently as her three-year-old
daughter Ella sat strapped in the back seat.

She claimed that Bates, who wore Bungle's brown furry suit between 1972 and
1992, only left her alone when she told him that the police were on their way.
Bates, who lives in a wisteria-covered Victorian townhouse in Woolpit, near Bury
St Edmunds, in Suffolk, denied as- saulting Mrs Mar- coni by beating her and
putting her in fear of violence.

Bury St Edmunds magistrates dismissed the charge after Bates agreed to be bound
over to keep the peace in the sum of GBP 100 for 12 months. Part-time petrol
station attendant Mrs Marconi then said outside court: "It was the most
frightening experience of my life.

"He was like a madman and I thought that he was going to try to kill me.

"I used to see Rainbow on the TV when my children were younger and I always
thought that Bungle was a nice friendly creature - not a horrible grizzly bear
like him.

"I am astonished that he behaved in the way he did in front of my young daughter
when he used to earn a living from entertaining children."

The alleged attack happened at about 5.30pm in May last year after Mrs Marconi,
with little Ella in tow, had bought fish and chips from a takeaway in Woolpit.

Mrs Marconi said she had just started driving home when she saw Bates reversing
his silver Volvo estate out of the car park of The Bull pub in the village. Paul
Forshaw, prosecuting, said: "Mrs Marconi slowed down and the Volvo stopped,
blocking most of the road.

"Bates looked at her and she drove around him to get past.

"As she drove around, she heard him shout 'bitch' and also heard him shout
something else. She stopped and then reversed back to speak to him.

"She spoke certain words and said to him, 'It's you who is blocking the road'.

"She says he then gave a lot of abuse towards her and she called him an arrogant
bastard."

Mrs Marconi, of Thurston, near Bury St Edmunds, then drove away, with Bates
allegedly following her for three miles down the A14 dual carriageway.

But she claimed that she only realised he was driving behind her when she turned
down the slip road to Beyton and glanced in her rear view mirror.

"She claims that she was driving at 30mph and he was driving alongside trying to
force her over. The Volvo then pulled in front of her and she stopped," said Mr
Forshaw.

"Bates got out of his car and she picked up her mobile phone so she could call
her husband and tell him what had happened.

"She opened her window and Bates reached through and grabbed hold of her arms
with his hands and shook her several times.

"She says she tried to prise his hands away but could not get him off and spat
at him.

"She then told him the police were on their way and he let go, got back into his
car and drove off.

"As a result of the incident, she was very shaken and distressed. There were a
couple of witnesses."

David Stewart, defending, described Bates as a single man of good character who
was self- employed. He added: "He is utterly remorseful and ashamed of his
behaviour."

Magistrate John Betts told Bates that the court had considered the case
carefully before agreeing to bind him over.

He warned Bates that he would be brought back to court if he assaulted or
interfered with Mrs Marconi in the future.

Bates, who was wearing a sober grey suit, refused to comment after the hearing.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                 March 10, 2001

Terror of frenzied attack by teenage madman'

BYLINE: ANDREW NOTT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 280 words



PENSIONER Edith Chapman told police how she thought a teenage madman'' had
knocked her brains out in a brutal attack.

He beat her with a rounders bat, a court heard - and three months later, Edith
was dead. On what would have been her 88th birthday, a statement she made was
read out to a court where a 16-year-old boy is accused of attempted murder. He
pleads not guilty.

Miss Chapman told how she was confronted by an intruder in her home.  He had
staring eyes which made him look mad or drugged up,'' she said.  He came flying
up the stairs at me like a madman waving the bat about. He couldn't have hit me
any harder. He knocked me to the ground, but continued hitting me while I was on
the floor.  I felt blood at the side of my head like a jelly-ish slime and I was
thinking at the time that he's knocked my brains out.  I said: Stop it, take
what you came for. You're going to kill me'.''

Miss Chapman, of Hazel Grove, Stockport, survived the assault, but was left with
a catalogue of injuries.  After two months in hospital, she went home, but then
last December, she tripped and fell downstairs, broke her neck and died.

The testimony she gave two weeks after the attack was heard by a jury at
Manchester Crown Court jury, who were told the defendant, who cannot be named
for legal reasons, was known to the victim.  Alan Conrad, QC, prosecuting, said
the accused and two other boys, aged 14 and 16, went into her home to steal, but
when she caught them she was attacked by the first youth.

The two others admit aggravated burglary and are due to give evidence next week
for the prosecution.  Proceeding


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: IN hospital . . . Edith

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 March 10, 2001

Victim of racial attack describes gang terror
 Man is left unconscious after unprovoked assault while walking home with his
girlfriend

BYLINE: Sharon Van Geuns

SECTION: Agency: AGENCY, Pg.15

LENGTH: 390 words


THE victim of a racist attack in Devon said yesterday he was now too scared to
go out in Exeter at night after he was beaten unconscious by a gang while
walking home with his girlfriend.

Ala Miah needed ten stitches above his left eye and hospital treatment for cuts
and bruises to his arms and legs after he was kicked and punched to the ground
during the unprovoked assault in Western Way.

The 30-year-old, who lives in Pinhoe Road, has been left so shaken by the attack
by the three men that he says he will not be going out in Exeter again at night.

The incident happened as Ala and his girlfriend, Annette Manning, 20, walked
home from the Hothouse nightclub at Exeter Quay early on Thursday.

They became aware of a group of men sitting in a car as they walked along
Western Way. At first the abuse was directed at Annette, but then the men got
out of the car and began attacking Ali.

"The first thing I felt was a whack on the back of my head," he said.

"I hadn't said anything to them, I had just said to Annette 'Let's go'. We had
just been walking home minding our own business after a good night out."

Annette ran to summon help after Ala was beaten unconscious in front of her and
the men drove off. She rang for an ambulance from a mobile phone she borrowed
from a passer-by.

"I have just got hatred for them," said Annette. "And disbelief that they could
do this to somebody because of their colour."

Ala, a former licensee, said he was now very wary about going out in the city at
night.

"I just didn't deserve this. It was horrible," he said. "I have never been badly
racially abused or attacked before. It is going to make me wary about going out
at night now."

Police are treating the incident as racially-motivated and yesterday appealed
for witnesses.

All the men were thought to have been in their early 20s. Officers said one of
the main culprits was around 6ft tall and had spiky, mousy blond hair. He wore a
red and white puffa-style jacket.

Another suspect was said to be shorter, although he also had spiky blond hair.
He was wearing a black polo-necked jumper.

PC Roy Adams said: "We take this sort of incident very seriously and we are
appealing for people to come forward so that we can prosecute the offenders."

Anyone with information is asked to contact the police on 0990 777 444.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            March 13, 2001, Tuesday

INDECENT ATTACK TERROR IN ALLEY;
 WOMAN CUT AND BRUISED IN 'KNIFE' ASSAULT

BYLINE: Arryn Buggins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 218 words


A WOMAN was sexually assaulted at knifepoint as she walked home in Leamington
from a night out.

Police revealed today that the lone 21-year-old was walking up an alleyway
between Brunswick Street and Masters Road at about 11pm on Saturday when a
"short" man pounced on her, close to garages.

A police spokeswoman said: "She was grabbed from behind by a man and indecently
assaulted.

"She suffered cuts and bruises to her face but was not seriously injured. She
managed to break free and ran off."

The victim had got a taxi to Brunswick Street and was taking a short- cut
through to Masters Road.

The attacker, who is believed to have been wearing a scarf or balaclava over his
face, did not speak.

His victim thought he had short dark hair and was about 5ft 5in to 5ft 6in.

The woman received cuts and bruises, with a mark on her left cheek and scratches
on her neck.

The attacker used a sharp instrument, thought to be a knife or screwdriver, but
it was not seen by the victim.

She struggled and got away from the man and ran to the home of a relative, where
she phoned the police.

The woman did not need hospital treatment but was left shocked and frightened by
the assault.

Any witnesses are asked to phone police on 01926 415000 or Crimestoppers on 0800
555111.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 14, 2001

STALKER JAILED FOR NET TERROR ATTACK ON GIRL

BYLINE: BY ALUN REES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 369 words


A PERVERTED cyber-stalker has been jailed for seven years for an Internet terror
campaign waged against a teenage girl.

Donald Ridley set-up sex sites and used a picture of the child - who suffered
from chronic fatigue syndrome - to successfully lure people to her seaside home,
inviting them to rape or abuse her.

He hid his tracks so well that police only uncovered the evidence when they
searched his computer files looking for child pornography after a tip-off.

Ridley, of Poole, Dorset, admitted 25 offences, including obscene publication,
sending indecent messages and distributing almost 100 pornographic pictures of
children as young as eight.

Judge Samuel Wiggs told the 37-year-old: "The offences against the girl are
repulsive. Knowing that she suffered extreme ill health you sadistically used a
computer to get pleasure for yourself from her pain, setting up these websites
offering unbelievably foul sexual services."

Housing officer Ridley's 18-year-old victim is still receiving psychiatric
treatment for the trauma.

Earlier Bournemouth Crown Court heard how he had befriended the girl and taught
her how to access the Internet.

He then set up the websites and the teenager's mother had to fend off a number
of callers. The family was so terrified they eventually left their Poole home.

Ridley, who lived with his mother, had devised a scheme where he could set up
sites through an innocent third party.

He then hijacked one bearing the girl's name and published her personal details
and photographs alongside a host of obscene claims.

Scores of twisted messages were sent to the victim's e-mail address.

After the case, Ridley's victim, who was 17 at the time, said: "It has been a
nightmare. At one stage I was receiving up to 30 e-mails a day from people.

"But the most terrifying part was when strangers turned up at my home. It all
became too much.

"Mum and I walked around like zombies and both of us ended up needing sleeping
tablets.

"We thought we would wake up one day and it would all be over but it just didn't
stop."

Defending, Tim Coombes admitted that Ridley was "sadistic" and there was little
that could be said in his favour.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            March 17, 2001, Saturday

FAMILY LIVES IN FEAR OF RACE ATTACK;
 'CAMPAIGN OF TERROR' CLAIM

BYLINE: Ben Hurst

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 262 words


A BIRMINGHAM man says he has been the victim of a six-month racist hate
campaign.

Mohabbat Ali, of Longstone Road, Great Barr, said that he and his family were
living in fear in their home, and are appealing for help.

Police confirmed they were investigating a string of incidents and said they
were trying to identify those responsible.

Recent attacks have included gloss paint being thrown over his car, eggs pelted
at his house windows, stone attacks on the house, attempted break-ins and his
garden wrecked.

Mr Ali, aged 28, said: 'We have been the victims of racism and we sit at home in
the evening afraid of what might happen.

'The back of my car is currently covered with paint and I don't think we will
ever get it off. There are eggs on the windows of the house from the last attack
and I just believe you shouldn't have to live like this.

'We don't want to have to sit in our house at night, worried about what will
happen. I've got an 18 month old child.'

Mr Ali said that he wanted to stay in the area if possible, rather than be
driven out by his tormentors.

He said: 'In some ways I would love to just move away from here, but you would
feel like you are giving in to these people.'

A spokesman for Walsall Road police, who are dealing with the inquiry, said: 'We
are looking into the incidents with a view to taking further action against
groups of young kids who are causing this family some problems.

'Something like this is treated very seriously and allegations of racist attacks
will be investigated fully.'

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DAMAGE: Mohabbat Ali with his paint spattered car

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 19, 2001

Woman in terror alert attacks bomb squad for blowing up her car

BYLINE: Kunbi Jegede

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 368 words


A WOMAN whose car was blown up by police in the Aldwych spoke today of her anger
and dismay.

The Metropolitan Police bomb squad performed a controlled explosion on the car,
parked near the BBC World Service at Bush House, at 1.20am yesterday. It was
suspected of being a Real IRA bomb but proved to be a false alarm.

Actress-turned-writer Alison Cocks, 33, who works as a part-time cloakroom
assistant at the nearby Joe Allen restaurant, said she had been parking her
10-year-old white Fiesta on the same spot for four months.

Ms Cocks said: "The first I knew of it was when guests couldn't leave because
the entire area was cordoned off. Once the cordon was removed, I went outside to
see what was going on, pushed past police and photographers and saw that my car
had been blown up. I'm not sure how my insurance company is going to react when
I tell them my car was blown up by police."

Ms Cocks said she was told by officers that the Anti-Terrorist Branch believed
her stereo speaker was in fact a disguised bomb planted by the breakaway
republican group.

She said: "A couple of months ago a friend installed a second-hand speaker in my
car because I couldn't afford to buy a new one. It's an oldfashioned Seventies
speaker. It's a bit unusual but clearly looks like a speaker. The police were
terrible and completely unhelpful. There was no procedure, they didn't seem that
bothered. At first I was told to call out the AA.

"Then the police took me down to the station and told me to call them on Monday
and get in contact with my insurance company. I'm still annoyed because no one
has apologised. The windows are broken, the passenger seat has a big dent and
the doors are completely wrecked.

"I'm really upset by what's happened. As it's their mistake, I'm surprised they
were so dismissive about the whole thing."

Ms Cocks, who lives in Wales but stays in London at the weekends, was given a
lift home to a friend in east London in a police van.

"I'm surprised they didn't pay for a taxi to take me home after all that," she
added. Tension in the capital has been high since a car bomb detonated outside
BBC Television Centre in Shepherd's Bush on 4 March.


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 20, 2001

JET ATTACK TERROR PILOT HONOURED

BYLINE: BY PADRAIC FLANAGAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 144 words


A PILOT who fought off an attacker as his jumbo jet nose-dived thousands of feet
was honoured yesterday.

Captain William Hagan, 53, saved 398 passengers, including socialite Jemima Khan
and pop singer Bryan Ferry, by overpowering the cockpit intruder.

The Glasgow-based pilot joined 15 more courageous folk receiving medals at the
British Gold Heroes Awards at London's Cafe Royal.

A mentally-ill Kenyan, 27, burst into his cockpit on a BA 747 flight over east
Africa at Christmas.

After overpowering him, Captain Hagan wrestled with controls to save passengers,
including his children aged 14 and nine."I did as I was trained," he said.

Also honoured by the Association of the Retired and Persons Over 50 were the
Sainsbury's staff who tended 200 survivors of the 1999 Ladbroke Grove rail
disaster in west London, in which 31 people died.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            March 22, 2001, Thursday

Terror in villages as Macedonia threatens attack Fear of all-out assault stalks
hills near Tetovo, writes Askold Krushelnycky in Sipkovica

BYLINE: By ASKOLD KRUSHELNYCKY

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 567 words

THE village that is expected to feel the brunt of any Macedonian assault, Selce,
lies about 2,500ft above the city of Tetovo where fighting broke out between the
two sides last week.

Usually it is a half-hour drive from Tetovo to Selce, but the NLA rebels have
blocked the road with felled trees, and snipers from both sides have shot at
people trying to pass.

To reach Selce now demands a trek across mountain paths linking a string of
villages perched spectacularly along the ridges.

Many of the trees are still bare, providing little cover. But the white blossoms
of wild cherry and almond are already bursting.

The beauty of the landscape does not hide the fear among villagers. The villages
of Sipkovica and Selce were shelled on Tuesday night by Macedonian forces firing
artillery and tank shells from below. Two people were reported killed and some
buildings were damaged.

Both villages are full of NLA rebels who were yesterday defiant in the face of
the Macedonian ultimatum.

One NLA political activist, Irfun, who has spent years collecting funds among
the Albanian diaspora in Europe, said: "We do not trust the Macedonian
government. Who can guarantee that they will leave us in peace if the NLA does
withdraw? We think it could a trick. We cannot draw back from where we are now."

One of the NLA soldiers, Rahim, dressed in camouflage uniform and with a maroon
beret sporting the Albanian eagle, said: "We love the Slav Macedonian people and
do not want to fight with them. Never in history have we attacked the
Macedonians, but they have done this to us. I do not want to fight them but I
will if I have to."

Behind the bravado, many of the NLA men were showing signs of edginess. In Selce
the NLA soldiers, armed with Kalashnikov automatic rifles, were preparing
positions for close-quarter fighting among the buildings.

All the NLA men have small arms and many have anti-armour RPG7 rocket-propelled
grenade launchers.

They also possess small-calibre mortars, but there was little evidence of more
impressive weapons such as artillery.

The government maintains that the core of the NLA is made up of only about 200
fanatics. But the rebels say local volunteers have been flocking to them since
the fighting began.

It is difficult to gauge who is telling the truth. Salim, from the village of
Lisec, said: "I am from here and I have fought with the Albanian guerrillas in
Kosovo. It is my duty to fight with them here also."

But most of the young men in the villages seem to have little desire to fight
and some were hostile to the NLA.

One said: "The NLA say they are going to fight to the last man, woman and child.
But they don't mean their child, and they didn't hear the screaming of the
children when that shelling happened here last night.

"Only about five per cent of the men here have joined the NLA. The rest of us
want this resolved by dialogue, but we don't think there is a real desire to do
that by the government. They just want Albanians to continue being second-class
citizens."

In Sipkovica, panic gripped the inhabitants after a rumour spread that
government forces were to attack at 8pm last night.

Parents rushed to grab children, mattresses and plastic bags stuffed with food,
and made their way hurriedly to homes with cellars. Within minutes almost the
only people left on the streets were NLA fighters.
[PS]News: [ES]

International:

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             March 23, 2001, Friday

Failed Albanian grenade attack brings terror to streets Christian Jennings sees
two men shot by police at a Tetovo checkpoint

BYLINE: By Christian Jennings

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 283 words

IT began with a row between a Macedonian policeman and an Albanian who had
pulled up at his checkpoint. Moments later a hand grenade was produced, weapons
were fired and two men lay dead.

Just before noon yesterday, Macedonian police positions in and around Tetovo's
football stadium were firing mortars at Albanian rebel positions on the wooded
slopes of Mount Baltepe. Clouds of grey smoke drifted from burning houses.

Behind a sandbagged position in front of two newspaper kiosks, about eight
police crouched behind belt-fed machine guns. A silver saloon car suddenly
pulled to a halt in front of them. Two policemen in combat uniform and blue
body-armour ran over to it.

One occupant got out and was grabbed by an officer, who screamed at him, flailed
a fist and then realised the danger as the man raised his arm and appeared to
throw a hand grenade.

The policeman screamed a warning to his colleagues and they opened fire on the
car's two occupants, ducking and weaving behind the vehicle as they ran for
cover.

One of the police machine-gunners behind the sandbags joined in. In less than 60
seconds the police fired more than 100 rounds of ammunition.

Watchers scattered, ducking and moving away from the fire, some diving for cover
behind a wall. The hand grenade, dropped by the man as he fell wounded and dying
to the ground, failed to explode.

When the shooting stopped, the two men - later identified as Albanians - lay
motionless. A policeman grabbed one and hauled him off towards the stadium.

The second body, the grenade lying next to it, was sprayed with a dozen rounds.
If the man had not been dead before, he certainly was now.
[PS]News: [ES]

International:

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 25, 2001

KREMLIN FEARS FRESH WAVE OF TERROR ATTACKS; CHECHEN REBELS MURDER 21 IN CAR BOMB
CARNAGE

BYLINE: FROM WILL STEWART IN MOSCOW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 599 words


The Kremlin last night feared a devastating new wave of attacks by Chechen
rebels after three car bombs killed at least 21 people and wounded more than
100.

The explosions were in the volatile south of Russia, close to the breakaway
Chechnya region.

Last night security was tightened in Moscow and other cities amid alarm at the
prospect that a fresh round of attacks was underway.

Yesterday's bomb toll was one of the heaviest since President Vladimir Putin
launched his "anti-terrorist" campaign 18 months ago in which thousands have
died.

Shocking TV pictures showed victims covered in blood close to burned-out cars.
Nearby buildings were rocked by the blasts.

The bombings stung Putin who immediately ordered an emergency session in the
Kremlin and sent the chief of the revamped KGB secret police, Nikolai Patrushev,
to the region.

The worst attack was at the Soviet-era health spa of Mineralnye-Vody where 18
were killed and 81 injured when a bomb was detonated by remote control near a
busy market entrance.

A second, almost simultaneous, car bomb in Yesentuki, 18 miles away at a highway
checkpoint in the troubled north Caucasus region, wounded 12 people.

Then two policemen were killed in a third explosion in the neighbouring region
of Karachayevo-Cherkessia as they sought to clear the area. All three sites are
within 100 miles of Chechnya.

In all three blasts yesterday, Lada cars were stuffed with explosives and
activated within minutes of each other at 10am local time.

The Kremlin immediately blamed Chechen separatists for the deadly attacks.
Sergei Ivanov, chief of Russia's security council and a close ally of Putin,
declared: "It's obvious that these were terrorist acts."

He added: "Was it unexpected? No it wasn't."

He claimed the rebels had turned to terrorist attacks on civilians in Russia
because they were being crushed by the heavy-handed Kremlin military offensive
in Chechnya.

He stressed: "It's absolutely clear that until we can return to a normal
peaceful life, which means that people in Chechnya have the ability to earn a
living legally, there will be a constant threat of terrorist acts."

A spokesman for fugitive Chechen president Aslan Maskhadov catagorically denied
responsibility for the bombings.

However, Moscow's offensive in the separatist region has led to gangs
undertaking freelance attacks. Earlier this month, three Chechens hijacked an
Aeroflot plane in Istanbul and demanded to fly to Saudi Arabia. Three people,
including one hijacker, died when the Saudi special forces stormed the aircraft.

Russia's second invasion of Chechnya in 1999 came after a string of massive
explosions in apartment blocks in Moscow and other cities that claimed almost
300 lives.

These explosions led directly to a "popular war" which later saw ex-spy Putin
elected to the Kremlin in succession to Boris Yeltsin on a wave of public
support. Large-scale fighting in Chechnya ended months ago, but rebels continue
to attack Russian forces at night, ambushing their convoys in broad daylight and
seeding the province with land mines.

The bombs came a day after Putin icily dismissed criticism from European Union
leaders in Stockholm over his campaign in Chechnya.

Russian troops have faced accusations of massive human rights abuses, including
murder, rape, torture and looting.

The Russians insist they have no option but to conduct a tough "anti-terrorist"
campaign in the region, fearing that the security of the state is at stake from
extremist Islamic forces and warlords in the region.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 March 30, 2001

Terror attack at newsagent's

BYLINE: Rosslyn Brennan

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 168 words


A TERRIFIED shop assistant was punched and forced to hand over cash to two
robbers who struck at a 24-hour store in Bath.

A passer-by, who tried to block their getaway, was almost hit by a car as the
robbers and two other men sped off towards Bristol.

Two men, thought to be in their late teens or early 20s, entered the JCR on
Upper Bristol Road at 8.45pm last night and demanded money.

One man, who was of mixed race and about 6ft leapt over the counter, punched the
37-year-old cashier in the chest and forced her arm behind her back.

He stole a small amount of cash from the till. His accomplice was white and
about 5ft 7ins, wearing a white baseball cap.

The robbers ran out the shop to a white Vauxhall Astra which was waiting with
another two men in it. A man tried to block their escape but was forced to jump
clear. The car hit a wall before driving off towards Bristol. No one was
seriously hurt.

Witnesses should ring 01275 818181 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            March 31, 2001, Saturday

EX-FIREMAN GUILTY OF TERROR ATTACKS ON WOMEN

SECTION: ROP; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 389 words


A former senior fire officer was yesterday facing life in prison after he was
found guilty of a string of sex attacks on girls and young women.

George Heyes (44) preyed on lone females as they walked near recreation grounds,
churchyards and schools and subjected them to terrifying attacks hiding his
identity with a hood or balaclava helmet.

The jury at Manchester Crown Court took almost three hours to find him guilty of
raping a 16-year-old, and indecently assaulting a 14-year-old girl and a 26
-year-old woman.

He was cleared of one charge of indecently assaulting a 17-year-old woman.

Heyes had denied the attacks but had admitted raping an 18-year-old woman and
indecently assaulting another of the same age in 1996.

Red-haired Heyes stood expressionless in the dock as Mr Justice Penry-Davey
warned him he could go to prison for the rest of his life.

The judge adjourned sentencing for six weeks for psychiatric reports.

The judge told Heyes: 'The very strong likelihood is that you will go to prison
for a very long time.

'I have indicated that it may even be that a life sentence may be appropriate in
this case.

'It is one of the options I am considering.'

He said he would like an assessment of how long Heyes, of Bamburgh Close,
Radcliffe, Greater Manchester, would remain a 'serious danger to women'.

The court heard Heyes, an acting Assistant Divisional Officer at Greater
Manchester Fire Service headquarters at the time, attacked women during an 18
-month campaign of terror which started in June 1996.

After his conviction, prosecutor Sue Klonin revealed that Heyes had two previous
convictions for kerb crawling and indecent exposure.

It was the second incident that trapped him after a DNA swab taken on his arrest
in 1999 linked him to the rape and indecent assault he eventually pleaded guilty
to.

In May of last year, he was found guilty of exposing himself at a woman walker
at Entwhistle Reservoir, near Bolton, Greater Manchester.

Blackburn and Darwen Magistrates sentenced him to 12 months probation.

The conviction also led to the father-of-one being sacked from his pounds
30,000-a-year job.

During the three-day trial, Miss Klonin had said: 'All six attacks bear his
signature as clearly as if he had left his fireman's helmet at the scene.'

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 March 31, 2001

Attack terror for teen girl

SECTION: Crime: Attacks, Pg.2

LENGTH: 74 words


A TEENAGE girl was indecently assaulted in Newcastle town centre last night.

The victim was walking near to the Fountains Roundabout by King Street shortly
after 10pm yesterday when she was approached from behind by a man who assaulted
her and exposed himself .

The offender is described as a white male aged between 30 and 35, 5ft7ins tall
with short dark hair and a moustache.

He was wearing a blue sweatshirt and dark trousers.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2001 The Sentinel

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        April 2, 2001, Monday Edition 2

Family Flees Arson Terror -Grudge Attack Inquiry After Home Is Destroyed

BYLINE: Evening Chronicle

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 319 words

A family cheated death when their home was destroyed in a grudge arson attack
today.Kevin Dyson, his wife Olive and teenage sons George and Kevin fled in
their night clothes as the blaze ripped through their semi-detached council
house in Sunderland's Leechmere Road, Tunstall Hills, at 3am. The fire was so
intense it also damaged the privately-owned home of next door neighbour Val
Urban, who was also forced to flee.Mr Dyson, 41, believes the fire was started
as a grudge against his family. Just days ago his 15-year-old son George was
threatened with knee-capping.Fisherman Mr Dyson leapt from his bed when flames
flared through his windows.The attacker had set fire to his 170 new lobster pots
he hadbought to set up in business as a fisherman.The heat was so intense it
smashed all the windows in the house and started fires both downstairs and
upstairs.Mr Dyson said: "I had spent weeks preparing the lobster pots with their
ropes. The rubber and plastic coatings were burning very fiercely."I just don't
know how we got out alive. It could have been a lot worse - we could have all
been killed."At first Mr Dyson ran naked from his bed to try to tackle the
blaze, but when he realised it was too severe he ran back into the house to pull
on tracksuit bottoms.A neighbour took in Olive, 40, sons George and Kevin 17.
They wore only their pyjamas as they fled the house.Today they were too shocked
to talk about the incident. Next door neighbour, Mrs Urban, 52, said: "My house
was also full of smoke. It was billowing from the roof void and I had to get out
as well."It's amazing everyone got out. Everyone could have been killed."Mr
Dyson said he had been setting up in business as a lobster fisherman and had
spent £2,500 on his pots which were not insured.Northumbria police today said
they were treating the house as a crime scene. Detectives and forensic experts
were examining the wreckage.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 April 3, 2001

Knife terror;
 PHONE BOX ATTACK: threat to slash victim's face

BYLINE: Tamsin Davis

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 273 words


A ROBBER pulled out a flick knife and threatened to cut his victim's face unless
he handed over cash.

The thug targeted a 26-yearold man who had just finished making a call to his
girlfriend in the phone box in Roundstone Street, Trowbridge, in the early hours
of yesterday morning.

He went up to the man and asked for the time, but then turned nasty and demanded
money.

When the man refused, the robber pushed him up against the phone box and pulled
out a fourinch double-bladed flick knife.

He held it to the man's face and threatened to slash his face unless he gave him
money.

The man reached to get his wallet whereupon the robber grabbed it and fled in
the direction of the town centre.

Pc John Barker, from Trowbridge, said: "The man heard a click sound and saw he
had a flick knife in his hand which he raised to his face.

"He couldn't run off because he was pushed up against the phone box.

"He came close to cutting him."

The robber is described as white, aged between 18 and 22, about 5ft 11ins, of
skinny build, with a shaven head, spotty face and about three-days stubble
growth on his chin.

He was wearing a sleeper in his left ear, a dark Nike tracksuit and white Reebok
trainers and he had a ring on his right hand.

The victim also spotted part of a tattoo on the inside of the robber's right
wrist.

The knife he carried had a camouflage-patterned handle.

Police are urging any witness to the incident - which happened at 2.15am - or
anyone who knows someone matching the description, to come forward.

To help, contact Dc Dave Sharp at Trowbridge CID on 01225 763101.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 3, 2001, Tuesday

Sharon renews air attacks on terror suspects

BYLINE: Sam Kiley in Jerusalem

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 458 words


ISRAELI helicopter gunships fired three rockets into a Palestinian van
yesterday, killing the driver and signalling Israel's return to targeting
alleged terrorists after an Israeli soldier was killed by a Palestinian gunman.

The United States, the European Union and the UN have called for an end to what
Israel itself has termed the assassination of men it claims were behind attacks
on Israelis.

Yesterday's rocket attack on Muhammad Abdel Al, 29, a member of Islamic Jihad,
followed a wave of bombings and shootings, most of them claimed by Hamas,
another radical Islamic group. It came a day after an Israeli reservist soldier,
Sergeant Major Yaakov Krenchel, was shot dead in an exchange of fire near the
West Bank town of Nablus.

In a leaflet distributed in the West Bank, a Palestinian group calling itself
the Return Brigade said it attacked the army post at Salem to avenge the deaths
of five Palestinians from the Nablus area.

Although the attack, the first authorised by Ariel Sharon since he became Prime
Minister, was part of a campaign started by his predecessor, it marks another
stage in the intensification of violence.

In response to the bombings Mr Sharon ordered air raids and told tank crews to
fire on offices and buildings used by Yassir Arafat's Force17 bodyguard unit
last week.

In yesterday's Israeli attack, four helicopter gunships hovered above Abdel Al's
van near the Rafah refugee camp in Gaza. Salim Abu Yedin, a witness, said: "The
first rocket hit the rear of the car and Abdel Al struggled to get out of the
driver's seat into the road. Another two missiles hit the vehicle, turning it
into a ball of flames." Palestinian police said a passenger was critically
injured.

An Islamic Jihad spokesman said: "Revenge is coming. Israel should expect strong
strikes from Islamic Jihad to avenge the assassination." A group called the
Jerusalem Brigade had carried out bombings in Jerusalem and the central city of
Netanya "and we are sure they will continue to strike everywhere in Israel". he
added.

Later, at least one Israeli soldier was killed and six Palestinians were hurt in
heavy fighting in Bethlehem. Israeli tanks pounded the West Bank town with
shells, setting fire to at least four buildings.

In the divided West Bank town of Hebron, a gas canister exploded on Sunday in a
Palestinian grocery, hours after Jewish settlers buried a ten-month-old baby
girl who had been killed by Palestinian gunfire a week earlier. The grocery was
destroyed.

President Bush insisted yesterday that he would take an active role in the peace
process, declaring in a White House meeting with President Mubarak of Egypt that
"we're very engaged in the Middle East and we'll remain so".


LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 April 4, 2001

Garioch mill terror attack brings man nine months

BYLINE: By Gbew

SECTION: News:Courts:Sheriff, Pg.3

LENGTH: 541 words


Geoffrey Bew

A MAN was ordered detained for nine months yesterdayTue for grabbing a papermill
worker and pushing him towards a moving cutting machine, risk$-ing severe
injury.

Callum Slessor, 20, of 1Church Road, Potterton, ap$-peared on indictment at
Aber$-deen Sheriff Court.

During a previous court ap$-pearance he had admitted car$-rying out the offence
against Raymond Thomson to the risk of his severe injury and possible amputation
at the International Paper UK premises in Inverurie on July 1 last year.

Fiscal depute Sara Evans told the court the cutting machine involved in the
incident was made up of several unprotected chains and belts, which moved at a
speed of 300 metres a minute.

She said at one point the victim's face came within 6 -12in of the equipment and
Slessor was still pushing him.

Miss Evans said the victim managed to avoid contact with the machine only by
raising his body during the assault.

She said Slessor had come to the attention of workers at the papermill at
8.30pm.

One became wary as he did not recognise him and Slessor began pushing him with
his arms and legs, she said. The witness became concerned and went inside to
alert the victim, who was working on the cutting machine.

The fiscal depute added Slessor entered the building and was standing near the
platform of the machine when he was seen pushing the victim on the shoulder
towards the cutting machine.

Defence agent Lynn Bentley said it was an unusual case that had the potential to
be an ex$-tremely serious situation for Slessor because of where the assault
occurred.

Pushed

She said Slessor had pushed the victim towards the cutting machine for only a
short time and removed himself shortly afterwards.

Miss Bentley said her client had attended a barbecue with several others on the
day of the assault and had drunk a number of cocktails made up of pure spirits.

She said such was the amount of alcohol Slessor had drunk he had no recollection
of even being at the papermill or com$ -mitting the assault. Slessor would not
have committed the assault if he had not been under the influence of alcohol.

The defence agent added that Slessor appreciated the serious$-ness of his
actions following a severe foot injury he picked up as a result of accident,
which had made him unfit for work for some time.

Slessor also expressed a desire to offer an unreserved apology to the victim,
she said.

Sentencing, Sheriff Alexander Jessop said he took into account what was said on
Slessor's behalf and the social-inquiry report.

He added: "Although the as$-sault involved pushing it could have been fatal and
must have caused great alarm and concern to the victim."

He said that drinking was no excuse for that kind of be$-haviour and he had to
take the gravity of the offence into ac$-count.

Last night a spokeswoman for the North-east company wel$-comed the sentence.

She said: "It is good to see the judicial process is recognising this behaviour
is not accept$-able.

"Hopefully this individual will not be a nuisance to anyone in the future."

The spokeswoman also praised the quick response of the police in coming to the
premises and staff at the pa$-permill for helping to restrain Slessor until
officers arrived.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2001 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton and Hove

                                 April 6, 2001

Terror of sex attack victim

BYLINE: Karen Hoy (author email karen.hoy@argus-btn.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 370 words

DATELINE: brighton__hove



Police have issued a CD fit of the man they are hunting in connection with a sex
attack.

His 25-year-old victim was so hysterical after the attack that she ran from
police as they arrived at the scene and hid in a garden.

She was subjected to what detectives called an "horrendous" attack.

The victim, wearing black flared trousers and black top, left the New York night
club in Dyke Road, Brighton, and walked down West Street towards the seafront.

At the foot of West Street, near the junction with Kings Road, she spoke to four
men, one with bleached blond short hair.

Some time later, as she was walking along Dyke Road, Hove, she was grabbed by
the attacker.

He threw her to the ground and pulled part of her clothing off. He also grabbed
her by the hair as the assault continued.

The victim finally managed to break free and she ran into the road, trying to
flag down motorists for help.

Detective Constable Ian Thompson, heading the investigation codenamed Operation
Mirran, said: "No one stopped for her. They ignored a lone female desperately
seeking help.

"All of us involved in the inquiry are disgusted.

"The attack was so horrendous that it is likely to affect this woman for the
rest of her life."

The victim finally managed to reach a telephone and dial 999 but she was so
upset that the operator had difficulty understanding her.

Mr Thompson said: "When officers arrived she fled from them and hid in a garden.
She was traumatised."

Police this weekend will be visiting night clubs and showing the CD fit of the
suspect in the hope someone will recognise him.

The attack happened at about 1am last Sunday, April 1.

The attacker is in his late twenties and of medium build.

He is about 5ft 10in with short mousey spiked hair and spoke with a local or
London accent.

He was wearing baggy beige-coloured cord trousers and a dark-coloured hooded
top.

Anyone who saw the victim either in West Street or Dyke Road and anyone with
information about the attacker should call Hove CID on 0845 6070 999.


LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             April 9, 2001, Monday

DAYLIGHT SEX ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: ROP; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 76 words


POLICE were today hunting an attacker who tried to rape a woman in a Black
Country town in broad daylight.

He threatened the 39-year-old Wednesfield woman with a screwdriver as she walked
across waste ground off Inkerman Street in Wolverhampton at 11.30am on Saturday.

He fled after attacking the woman.

Police described the man as black, 5ft 9ins tall, with with a scar on his left
cheek, brown eyes, thin lips and a thin moustache.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            April 12, 2001, Thursday

MAN DIES IN TERROR ATTACK;
 LOYALISTS BLAMED FOR FATAL SHOOTING

BYLINE: Ryan Harkness

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 219 words


A MAN was last night shot dead in Co Armagh in an attack believed to have been
part of a bitter loyalist feud.

The shooting in Tullyhue Park, Tandragee, occurred shortly after 11pm.

The victim was named locally as Graham Marks. He is believed to have been in his
early 30s.

It is understood the gunmen knocked at his door then shot him in the head.

It is believed the victim's family was not in the house at the time.

Tullyhue Park, in the Gilford Road area of Tandragee, is a prominently loyalist
estate in what is a staunchly Protestant village.

A burnt-out car was found near Gilford a short time after the attack.

Sources indicate the murder was connected to the ongoing LVF-UVF feud in the
area.

Last year, Portadown teenagers Andrew Robb and David McIlwaine were murdered
outside the village in an apparent revenge attack for the death of UVF man
Richard Jameson.

Local DUP Assemblyman Paul Berry was at the scene of last night's shooting. He
admitted he was in a "state of shock".

"Tandragee, or indeed any town, does not need this sort of thing. Whoever
carried this out must be vigorously sought out," he said.

"There is no room in society for this sort of thuggery."

Ulster Unionist Assemblyman for Newry and Armagh Danny Kennedy also condemned
the murder.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             April 13, 2001, Friday

PROVO REBELS THREATEN NEW WAVE OF TERROR;
 SECURITY ALERT AS PLANNED ATTACK THWARTED

BYLINE: Alan Erwin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 374 words


DISSIDENT republicans opposed to the Northern Ireland peace process last night
threatened a fresh campaign of violence.

As Army explosives experts prepared to defuse a bomb in Co Tyrone, the Real IRA,
which bombed Omagh, declared it would not stop until a 32-county Irish Republic
has been achieved.

A statement said: "For the solution we must look, in radical terms, to attacking
the cause of Ireland's problems."

Earlier, security forces foiled a planned attack which they believe was being
mounted to mark this weekend's 1916 Easter rising commemorations when thousands
of republicans loyal to the Sinn Fein leadership's peace strategy will take to
the streets.

Security forces were last night preparing to examine what is believed to be a
"barrack-buster" device, which was discovered at Altmore Forest, Galbally - just
10 miles from where the Real IRA carried out the largest single atrocity of the
Troubles when 29 people and two unborn children were killed in the 1998 Omagh
attack.

Such bombs usually contain up to 200 lbs of home-made explosives, and have been
used in recent times by dissident republicans in attacks against the security
forces.

In January, sleeping soldiers had a lucky escape when the terror group managed
to launch a barrack-buster over the perimeter fence of Ebrington Barracks,
Londonderry.

And a similar device was intercepted in Fermanagh in November last year.

It may take several days for the security alert to be cleared, police said last
night.

In the statement to mark the Easter rising the Real IRA pledged to continue its
campaign against those it sees as maintaining partition.

Since Omagh, the group has launched several bomb attacks on security bases and
mounted a series of attacks on high profile targets in London, including the MI6
building and the BBC's headquarters earlier this year.

The statement warned: "British manipulation, coupled with treachery on the part
of others, has led to and has upheld the partition of Ireland.

"As for Republicans, we will continue to attack the problem at its root and make
no apology for undertaking this necessary task. We will continue our struggle
until the 32 County Socialist Republic has been achieved."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ON GUARD: soldiers secure the area around Altmore Forest yesterday
after the discovery of a 'barrack-buster' bomb

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 13, 2001, Friday

HOSTEL GIRLS IN ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Caoimhe Young

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 286 words


THE suspect in the rape and murder of English schoolgirl Caroline Dickinson had
earlier tried a similar attack on a group of Irish schoolgirls, it emerged
yesterday.

Spaniard Francisco Montez broke into a French youth hostel bedroom in the Loire
Valley in June 1994 - two nights in a row - terrifying the Limerick teenagers.

He fled but police arrested him after he was spotted lurking outside the hostel
two days later.

Incredibly, he was released without charge as no-one had actually been
physically attacked.

He is now being held for the murder of teenager Caroline from Bodmin, Cornwall,
at a youth hostel in Pleine-Fougeres, Brittany, in July 1996.

She was raped and suffocated to death in her bed as four friends slept nearby.

Jobless waiter Montez, 56, from Asturias, Spain, was arrested in Miami for
sexual offences last month.

Detectives have now said they are "99.9 per cent" certain that his DNA samples
match those of Caroline's killer.

Yves Franquelin, the former director of the Loire Valley hostel, said: "I
remember the man spoke both English and French.

"He asked if we had any rooms and had a look around inside, then said he had
changed his mind.

"Over the next few days some of the Irish girls staying said a man matching his
description had broken into their room one evening.

"When they shouted out, he fled and then came back and did the same thing the
next evening.

"On the third day they told me of his presence outside the hostel and I called
the police, who arrested him and took him away for questioning."

French police said Montez is also wanted for questioning in connection with a
rape and three sex attacks in Germany in the 1980s.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SUSPECT: Montez

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 April 16, 2001

Real IRA blamed for attack on Post Office
 Terrorist device designed to maim and injure explodes 'without any notice
whatsoever'

SECTION: Business: CONSTRUCTION, Pg.26

LENGTH: 450 words


BOMBERS who planted a suspected terrorist device outside a Post Office delivery
depot were labelled "totally reckless" yesterday, as fears grew that a renewed
mainland terror campaign would escalate.

No warning was issued before Saturday night's blast in north London, believed to
be the work of dissident Irish republican terror group the Real IRA.

The device, packed with up to 1lb of high explosives, blew out windows,
exploding "without any notice whatsoever", the head of Scotland Yard's
anti-terrorist branch, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, said.

It comes just six weeks after a bomb blast rocked BBC TV Centre in London. At
the time Mr Fry said he feared it was the escalation of a Real IRA terror
campaign on mainland Britain.

"We have been predicting, since Christmas, that the mainland, and London in
particular, were to be subject to terrorist attacks," he said.

Saturday's device exploded at 11.28pm and was a similar size to the device at
Hammersmith Bridge in June last year. It blew out the glass from the windows of
the depot, but nobody was inside and there were no reports of injuries.

But it was designed to maim or injure, and falling glass from the blast could
have caused horrendous injuries or even killed.

"Whoever put that device down was totally reckless as someone living in the
area, drinking in the pub just beyond this device, walking past at the time of
the explosion or in a vehicle, could have had a serious accident," Mr Fry said.

Lab tests would confirm if the bomb was the work of the Real IRA, he added.
There were no claims of responsibility last night.

A forensic fingertip search of the site was carried out and the focus of the
investigation switched to laboratory work to establish the type of explosive and
device used.  It was still unclear why the bombers targeted the depot at The
Hyde, Hendon, which suffered minor damage in the blast.

Within 100 yards of this blast were the Hyde Primary and Nursery School, a
Sainsbury's supermarket and garage and a Homebase DIY superstore.

From the police cordon around 100 yards away, two smashed windows could be seen
and metal railings lining the road outside the depot were twisted, apparently by
the force of the blast.

Gerry Madden, delivery officer manager at the postal sorting office, said 80
people worked at the depot but that no one was on duty on Saturday night.

Mr Fry said it was of the "utmost importance" that those responsible were found
and brought to justice.

The post office building is expected to open tomorrow morning after the Bank
Holiday.

- Anyone with information about the blast should contact the confidential
Anti-Terrorist Hotline on 0800 789 321.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            April 21, 2001, Saturday

TERROR ATTACK SECURITY PROBE;
 POLICE SAY RAIDS MAY BE LINKED

BYLINE: Samantha Clarke

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 280 words


BOSSES of a roadside restaurant chain are stepping up security across all their
branches nationwide after a series of terrifying robberies in Warwickshire.

Police are investigating links between raids at the Little Chef restaurant on
the A46 Eastern Bypass in Binley Woods on Wednesday and a string of robberies at
other Little Chef restaurants across the county - including one off the A45 near
Rugby.

The Compass Group, owners of The Little Chef, are taking urgent measures to
install a high-tech security system at their Binley Woods restaurant.

Assistant manager Kelly Gleeson, aged 18 and of Coventry, was punched in the
face by a man who burst into the restaurant with a baseball bat- wielding
accomplice.

The raiders ordered her to empty the safe of cash, which they put into a Cashco
bag before fleeing.

The pair also tried to attack Miss Gleeson's colleague Louise Howe who was
cleaning the toilets, but she escaped by locking herself inside a cubicle.

Miss Gleeson was also targeted in a raid at the Little Chef off the A45 at
Thurlaston on March 1. A raider forced her against a wall, tied her hands behind
her back and pushed her to the ground, before stealing pounds 5,000. And the
Little Chef restaurant at Henley-in-Arden has been robbed twice since September.

Following the incidents, the company is reviewing its security at its
restaurants nationwide, including the Little Chef at Thurlaston and the nearby
Travelodge.

A Little Chef spokesman said: "We are deeply concerned by this incident and the
unwarranted attack on a member of staff."

Police have renewed appeals for information. Witnesses should call 01788 541111.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             April 22, 2001, Sunday

US ON ALERT FOR SMALLPOX TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Jeremy Laurance Health Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 581 words


THE US government has ordered 40 million doses of smallpox vaccine from a
British company in a sign of the growing alarm that terrorists could unleash
lethal viruses in future battles against Western states.

The astonishing size of the contract - worth $ 343m (pounds 200m) - highlights
the fears on both sides of the Atlantic about the threat of biological
terrorism. If a virus such as smallpox was released, the speed of modern
communications could spread the infection all over the world in days.

In the UK, the health department warned all NHS hospitals last year to prepare
for a criminal or terrorist attack on their local populations involving
biological weapons. Police teams trained by scientists from Porton Down, the
government research centre on biological and chemical warfare, have been formed
to take the lead role in the event of an attack.

The British Medical Association said that advances in technology meant
biological weapons were now easier to manufacture than chemical ones, increasing
the risk that they could be used in an attack.

Over the past 40 years there have been 121 incidents around the world involving
the use of biological agents. The use of sarin nerve gas in an attack by a
Japanese terrorist organisation six years ago, in which 12 people were killed
and 5,000 injured, focused world attention on the threat. The US last year set
aside $ 1.4bn (pounds 940m) for protection against chemical or biological
attacks.

The latest contract for smallpox vaccine is against a disease that no longer
exists - and the world must hope it will never encounter again. It was
eradicated from the planet in 1980 and only two research institutions - one in
the US and one in Russia - still retain stocks of the virus.

The threat of a smallpox attack is highlighted in the preview edition of
Infectious Diseases, a new journal published by The Lancet. Donald Henderson of
the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health said: "A large stockpile of vaccine is
a very high priority because smallpox has a 30 per cent fatality rate. There is
no vaccine production capacity anywhere in the world and we now have a very
susceptible population."

The vaccine ordered by the US government is being manufactured by a US
subsidiary of the Cambridge-based UK biotechnology company Acambis, formerly
known as Peptide Therapeutics. Delivery to the US government's Center for
Disease Control in Atlanta is due to start from mid-2004.

A spokeswoman said: "At the moment we are going through the process of
developing and licensing the vaccine, but under the contract we have the right
to sell it to anyone who wants it. When the time comes we will be marketing it
to other governments, including the UK. It certainly would be a logical step for
them to take."

The likelihood of a chemical or biological attack in the UK is seen as low by
the Department of Health, but the results could be devastating. Working parties
have been set up to consider the threat and exercises have been run in parts of
the country. Lists of the most likely agents to be used have been drawn up,
together with advice on how many people they might kill or injure, and
strategies for treating the victims.

In the US, fear of biological terrorism has become as unnerving as the threat
itself. President Clinton's declaration in 1998 that he expected a biological or
chemical attack within the next five years has fuelled alarm and provided
fertile ground for hoaxers.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 April 22, 2001

NEWS IN BRIEF: Terrorist attack on RUC station in Londonderry

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 52 words


The RUC was last night investigating reports of an explosion in Londonderry. The
blast occurred at about 10pm in the Asylum Road.

There are no reports of any injuries and the cause of the explosion is unknown.
It is believed it was the result of a terrorist attack on Strand Road RUC
station.


LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 April 23, 2001

Youth, 17, locked up for racist terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 227 words


A JUDGE today warned that racist crimes will be severely punished when he locked
up a teenager for four years for terrorising a kebab shop.

William Smith, 17, shouted racist abuse and swore at terrified staff in the
restaurant in Chapelhall, Lanarkshire, after they refused to give him free food.

He went on the rampage, throwing saucepans at the floor and ceiling while staff
cowered at the back of the premises.

After Smith left, restaurant workers started to clean up the mess but were
forced to hide again when Smith and others returned.

Lord McEwan told Smith at the High Court in Edinburgh: "You and others seemed to
decide to wreck the place when you were refused credit, terrifying the occupants
and hurling racist abuse.

"The courts will give a strong signal, at least in my court, that this will not
be tolerated and will be visited with a strong penalty."

Smith, of Gibb Street, Chapelhall, admitted committing a breach of the peace on
November 13, 1999, at the Cafe Rumza in Chapelhall.

He also admitted stealing a cash register and its contents, a microwave oven and
a meat cutter.

Smith clutched his head as the judge sent him to a young offenders' institution
for four years.

Defence counsel said Smith, who was 16 at the time, had been drinking and got
into a temper after watching Scotland lose at football.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: LED AWAY: William Smith is taken out of the court today

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 23, 2001

HOUSE HIT IN TERROR ATTACK

LENGTH: 77 words


    A gun and bomb attack on a house in Ulster was beibg investigated by police
early today.

    The home in the Loyalist village on Conlig Co Down was targeted at around
10.20 last night.

    An explosive device went off after being hurled into the living room and a
shotgun was fired through the window.

    No one was hurt but a woman was treated for shock.

    Detectives were trying to establish if the attack was connected to the
ongoing Loyalist feud.


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2001 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                 April 24, 2001

Woman jail officer scarred for life in terror attack

BYLINE: JAMES McNAMARA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 351 words


Prisoner bit so hard that her mouth had to be prised open


A PRISON officer suffered a terrifying attack after a dangerous inmate was sent
to a North West jail without any warning of her violent past.

A chunk of flesh was torn from the left arm of Carolyn Knowles, 37, when she was
bitten in the attack at Risley near Warrington.  She has undergone plastic
surgery to rebuild her arm, but the bite-shaped scar will remain with her for
life.

Ms Knowles endured a harrowing six- month wait for the results of a blood test
after the attack by the drug-user inmate.  The Prison Service has acccepted 100
per cent'' responsibility for Ms Knowles, leading to the cancellation of a
planned county court personal injury hearing.

Ms Knowles is now claiming compensation for her injuries, psychological damage
and loss of earnings.  It is understood Ms Knowles has not worked at Risley for
six months and has been prescribed anti-depressants. Ms Knowles and other prison
officers claim they were not warned of the prisoner's history of violence
towards guards.

Inmates with such a record were normally held at Styal.  The attack occured
during a routine search of the prisoner's belongings before she was moved to a
segregation wing as punishment for bullying inmates. It was claimed she refused
to hand over her belongings and punched a prison officer.

Ms Knowles, who has worked for the prison service for the last 14 years, tried
to restrain the prisoner with her left arm - and the prisoner bit it with such
force her mouth had to be prised open.  The inmate had been serving a reduced
five-year jail sentence for her part in an attempted murder when the attack
happened. She had been moved from a jail in Essex because governors there
refused to house her after a series of violent incidents. Weeks earlier, the
prisoner was accused of throwing liquified hot sugar over two prison guards.

But prison bosses are alleged to have failed to warn Risley staff of her nature.
The inmate is believed to have served her sentence and is living in Liverpool.


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BITTEN by prisoner . . . Carolyn Knowles has had to have plastic
surgery on her arm

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                 April 24, 2001

judge cages terror attack bullies
 Teenager tied up, repeatedly punched, kicked and burnt with cigarette butt

BYLINE: Exclusive By James Allen

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 336 words


A SADISTIC gang of teenage bullies tied up and tortured a 15-year-old boy after
attacking him in Nottingham city centre.

The gang grabbed the boy at Victoria bus station and marched him to a flat in St
Ann's.

They tied him to a chair and:

Stubbed out a cigarette on his hand

Punched him in the face

Kicked him in the stomach

Flicked burning matches at him.

Police described the incident as an horrific attack on an innocent boy.

The gang, which included two 14-year-old boys and an 18-year-old woman, appeared
before Nottingham Crown Court yesterday.

The 14-year-olds, who cannot be named for legal reasons, admitted robbery, false
imprisonment and assault occasioning actual bodily harm. They were given six
months' detention.

The woman admitted false imprisonment and actual bodily harm at the end of the
first day of a trial. She received seven months in a young offenders'
institution.

A fourth youth, aged 17, admitted false imprisonment. Sentence was adjourned for
14 days.

Michael Aughty told the court that on November 11 the victim was attacked by the
14-year-olds, who searched him for cash but found only matches.

He was taken to a flat with his coat over his head so he could not see.

"Once inside he found himself in a dark room," said Mr Aughty.

"He was ordered to sit on a chair and keep quiet. One of the boys then used the
cord from his tracksuit bottoms to bind his wrists."

Three of the attackers laughed as they took it in turns to punch him in the
face.

When the beating stopped the trio began smoking a cigarette which the girl
stubbed out on the palm of his hand, the court heard.

They then took the boy to a nearby park where he was held by the arms and three
of the gang took it in turns to sit on a swing and kick him in the stomach.

Mr Justice Pitchers said: "I do not believe that 14- year-olds can be so lacking
in any moral sense not to realise what a disgusting piece of sadistic bullying
this was.

"If you had all been 18 years old you would be facing very severe punishment."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SENTENCE: Mr Justice Pitchers

                     Copyright 2001 Nottingham Evening Post

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 24, 2001

MAN SHOT IN TERROR ATTACK TO LOSE POUNDS 1M

LENGTH: 249 words


    Petrol bomb past costs him compo

    A MAN paralysed in a terrorist shooting has lost Pounds 1MILLION
compensation - because he took part in a petrol bombing 16 years earlier.

    Ralph Creighton's huge payout was quashed because he had been jailed for
five years for the 1977 attack on a house -risking lives.

    Creighton, 44, of Belfast was an innocent bystander when gunmen opened fire
on a bar doorman in the city in 1993. He was left paralysed from the waist down.

    But last year the then Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Mandelson decided
not to give him a penny.

    Appeal

    He cited a section of the Criminal Injuries Compensation Order that allows
the UK Government to rule out anyone involved in terrorism.

    Creighton lost an appeal against the decision and his application for a
judicial review was dismissed at the High Court in Belfast yesterday.

    Mr Justice Kerr said the Secretary of State's decision was not irrational.
He added: "Petrol bombing is a crime of the utmost gravity.

    "The passage of time from the incident and the escape of the occupants of
the house may cast a less serious complexion on the crime.

    "But this remains a very grave incident in which the lives of a number of
people were put at substantial risk."

    Creighton's solicitor Brendan Taylor, said his client had since married and
changed his ways.

    Mr Taylor said full compensation could have been about Pounds 1million and
the decision to refuse it seemed completely unfair.


LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2001 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 25, 2001

STABBED PUPIL TELLS COURT OF 'TERROR ATTACK' AT TOP SCHOOL

BYLINE: BY LOUDON TEMPLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 595 words


A PUPIL at a leading secondary school in an upmarket city suburb was stabbed in
the back as he returned from a lunch break, a court heard yesterday.

Neil McMartin, now 16, told Paisley Sheriff Court that he was injured at the
prestigious Newton Mearns Castle High School in Glasgow after a scuffle with
four teenagers last year.

The pupil, who was only 15 at the time of the alleged assault, said he was
trapped on a landing leading to the building's maths department when the group
approached him and his friends as they waited to return to class.

Mr McMartin, who is currently sitting five Highers and hopes to become a pilot
in the army, told the jury that he recognised some of the four teenagers
appearing in connection with the attack as the kind of people he "would rather
stay away from".

Identifying all four as those who were involved, he said they appeared in a
courtyard as he and his friends waited on a landing to return to classes on
March 14 last year. On trial are Ewan McDonald, 19, Anthony O'Neil, 18, James
Bone, 17, and Grant Stewart, 17, all from Newton Mearns.

They deny punching and kicking Mr McMartin on the body. McDonald and O'Neil also
deny throwing a brick at him and striking him on the body with a knife or
similar instrument.

The 16-year-old said he had been in the playground in a five-strong group near
stairs leading to the maths corridor when all four accused appeared.

He instinctively tried to open the door but found it locked, meaning there was
no means of escape. "I didn't want a confrontation and would have preferred to
walk away," he told the court. "I knew what they were like."

He claimed McDonald came towards him and threw a brick which hit him on the
side. The jury heard that McDonald, O'Neil and Bone then ran towards him and a
fight broke out as he tried to defend himself against all three.

Mr McMartin said that his friends eventually stepped in to help him, leaving him
fighting with McDonald.

Suddenly, he felt a blow to his back and after managing to break free discovered
that his shirt was soaked in blood. He told the court that he did not know who
had struck the blow.

The jury was shown his school blazer, a pullover and blood-splattered shirt all
of which had a puncture hole.

As one senior member of staff chased after the fleeing group, the injured
schoolboy was taken to a medical room inside the building while an ambulance
were summoned.

The 16-year-old told the court that as he and his friend had backed off, someone
from the other group had shouted: "Do you want some more?"

He said he saw McDonald and O'Neil slipping blades from their sleeves into their
hands and added that Bone and Stewart also appeared to be carrying shiny
metallic objects.

Teaching staff were shocked when they learned what had happened.

Mr McMartin was taken to Glasgow's Victoria Infirmary and kept under observation
overnight. The wound had butterfly stitches applied to it but he still bears the
scars.

Asked if he knew of anything which would explain what had happened, the
schoolboy said that five months earlier there had been a party at his house
which was gatecrashed by McDonald and Bone.

He had decided to let them enter rather than turn them away and run the risk of
trouble.

The evening had ended in a fight which spilled out into the street. O'Neil and
Stewart also deny assaulting another pupil by punching and kicking him and Bone
denies assaulting a third pupil in a similar manner.

The trial, before Sheriff Iona McDonald, continues.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 April 25, 2001

Terror attack by vicious youths.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 128 words

DATELINE: Hounslow



April 25, 2001 12:50: A 21-year-old customs officer was subjected to a
terrifying ordeal when he was set upon by two youths who tried to rob him.

The Hayes resident was sitting in his car behind McDonald's in High Street,
Hounslow on Friday when two men in a red R reg Peugeot 306 parked in front of
him to stop him exiting.

One of the men jumped out of the car and banged on the man's car window
demanding money. Stunned, he quickly tried to lock his door but his attacker
managed to open it before he could do so.

The man then punched the victim in the face, cutting and bruising his right eye,
and demanded his money and mobile phone. It was only when a passer-by intervened
that the youth backed off.

Information to 020 8247 6118.


LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 26, 2001

Nurse's terror over car attack;
 POLICE HUNT DRIVER IN LATE-NIGHT ASSAULT

BYLINE: Bev Hawes

SECTION: News, Pg.32

LENGTH: 335 words


STUDENT nurse Trisha Gidley, aged 22, has told of her terror when another
motorist forced her to stop and then attacked her.

Trisha, aged 22, from Stroud, was driving back from visiting friends in
Gloucester at 11pm when her ordeal began.

As she turned into Painswick Road, a van began following her close behind,
flashing its headlights and hazard warning lights.

"He was only about a foot away from my car, " said Trisha.

"He kept flashing his lights and suggesting he wanted me to pull over. I
eventually did - all kinds of things were going through my mind at the time.

"I thought there may be something wrong with my car."

Locked

Trisha finally pulled over near the Rococo Gardens in Painswick, locked the
doors of her black Renault Clio and wound down the window slightly.

"He very calmly asked me if I lived nearby, " she said.

"I thought it would be a good idea to say I did. He then asked me my name. I
told him that was none of his business.

"I asked him to get away from my car and then he reached in and tried to grab me
by the throat.

"I pushed him away and drove off, leaving him in the road. He must have gone
somewhere different then, as he didn't try to follow me.

"I hope what's happened to me will maybe make other people more aware. I thought
he was trying to help me by telling me there was something wrong with my car."

A Gloucestershire police spokesman said: "This is quite an unusual incident
which we are currently treating as an assault.

"It is extremely suspicious and we are appealing for anyone who may have seen
anything to come forward."

Police are trying to trace a white man in his early 20s with short, dyed and
gelled blond hair.

The clean-shaven man was driving a red B-registration Renault van during the
attack last Friday.

Police are appealing for anyone who may have information to contact P-c East or
P-c Phillips at Stroud police station on 01452 335623 or Crimestoppers in
confidence on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            April 28, 2001, Saturday

PUB BOMB HORROR IS RELIVED;
 TV DOCUMENTARY ON TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Graham Young Tv Editor

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 309 words


TEN years after the Birmingham Six were freed, a new television documentary is
set to recall the horrors of the pub bombings which claimed 21 lives.

When two bombs went off in quick succession at the Mulberry Bush and Tavern In
Town pubs in Birmingham city centre in November 1974, 14 men and seven women
were killed and 167 people were injured.

Mainland Britain's worst IRA atrocity is still unsolved following the Court Of
Appeal's decision to free the Birmingham Six in 1991.

Next Wednesday, in Carlton ITV's National Disaster: Birmingham Pub Bombings,
survivors of the blast will recall the shock and terror they experienced on the
night when the IRA gave only a vague warning just six minutes before the first
bomb went off in the Mulberry Bush.

Bus passenger John Ashurst tells how he was rocked by the first blast, then got
hit by the second when the vehicle was parked 'for safety' in New Street, near
the Tavern In The Town. When he was finally taken to hospital, it had run out of
anaesthetic after treating so many victims.

Safety

After the first bomb, which killed ten people, including two passers-by, Stephen
Grate recalls how customers at the Tavern were told to stay were they were for
safety reasons.

'I went to the bar to get a few drinks and I was walking back and the lights
just went out,' he says.

Tavern barmaid Wendy Turner recalls a colleague joking: 'Wouldn't it be great if
we could have a bomb scare and all go home?'

Seconds later there was a flash of light in the Tavern itself from a second
bomb, which killed 11 more people. 'I instinctively put my hands to my face,'
says Wendy.

Narrator Martin Bashir explains how pressure from the bomb perforated ear drums,
and that added phosphorous caused instant 500C flash burns. The programme will
be screened on Carlton ITV at 11.30pm.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARNAGE: The horrific aftermath of the pub bombing

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              GATESHEAD POST (UK)

                        May 2, 2001, Wednesday Edition 1

All I Want Is My Peace -Former Councillor Hits Out At Terror Attacks By Anthony
Hendon

BYLINE: Gateshead Post

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 349 words


   A former town councillor claims he has become a victim of a hate campaign
since moving on to a council estate.

Bill Close has had his car tyres slashed and his windows put out several times
since he arrived in Stoneygate Lane, in Fellin,g two months ago - and says it's
because the community will not accept him or his younger partner.

Mr Close, 54, says he is suffering constant verbal abuse which has left him
frightened to leave his front door, and that he has had his home broken into.

But the ex-Bede councillor, who says he was forced out of Gateshead council
following a mystery fire at his flat in Monk Court, near the town centre, in
January, claims he is shunned by his former colleagues there when he asks for
help.

He said: "We've had nothing but trouble here. Nobody wants to know me. We were
told when we first moved here people wouldn't want me here because I'm an
ex-councillor, and that seems to be the case.

"I feel like I'm living under siege. We have the doors locked all the time
because we're so frightened, and I've lost a stone in weight.

"When I told Felling councillor John Hird what was going on recently, he told me
to come to his next surgery. But my

windows had been put out again by the following evening."

He added: "I now rue the day I was ever elected as a councillor."

Mr Close's girlfriend, 35-year-old Fiona Storey, who has been his partner since
1999, said: "Living here is like being in a prison - I'd rather stay with my
friends now. It's had me feeling suicidal."

Coun John Hird said: "I did have one conversation with Bill about the problems
he's experiencing, but he hasn't spoken to me since.

"He can ring me or any of the Felling councillors any time and we'll do all we
can to help."

A police spokesperson said: "We can confirm that Mr Close has made complaints
about issues in Stoneygate Lane and they are being investigated."

Mr Close he was placed in Stoneygate Lane after his flat became inhabitable
through fire damage.

He had served on Gateshead council for nearly two years before he stepped down
in January.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2001

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                                  May 2, 2001

Widow target of attackers
 Nine-year campaign of terror at Keadby

BYLINE: By Nick Cole

SECTION: News:People:Issues, Pg.5

LENGTH: 384 words


A KEADBY widow who has suffered a series of motiveless attacks on her home and
her animals says she has been left regretting the day she ever moved to the
area.

The nine-year reign of terror has included:

Windows being smashed.

Seven cars belonging to friends and family being vandalised outside her home.

Her horse being mutilated to such an extent it had to be destroyed.

Domestic pets being tormented.

Terri Davis moved to Margaret Avenue in 1992 with her husband, who died three
years ago. The 52-year-old believes her husband's death was directly as a result
of the stress caused by the constant attacks.

Mrs Davis said: "I know my husband died because of the stress of living under
these conditions and I have virtually had a nervous breakdown."

The couple moved from Bristol to their Keadby home and within two weeks of
moving in the attacks began when a number of windows were smashed. Damage to Mrs
Davis's property over the nine years has been put at GBP 13,500.

But the widow has no idea why the attacks have been carried out or by whom.

Mrs Davis said: "If I did I would be doing something about it.

"I wish I had never ever moved to this area but now that I have I can not afford
to move away, so I am simply stuck with it."

After Mr Davis's death, she had temporary respite from the attacks but it has
suddenly flared up again in the last two weeks, making her life a misery.

Mrs Davis said: "I spend 16 hours a day at work or carrying out repair work on
my property from damage that is caused to it and I am sick of it.

"I simply want my property left alone and for my animals to be left alone so
that I can get on with my life."

Mrs Davis said that surveillance cameras had in the past been put up around her
house and the police had sat outside in an attempt to catch her tormentors but
both were unsuccessful.

Dept Insp Dave Cressey, of Scunthorpe Police, said: "Since September 1998 Mrs
Davis has made four complaints to the police which have all been investigated.

"Should she have any further concerns then she should contact the police and any
further enquiries which can be made will be done."

Anyone who has any information or has witnessed anything suspicious around her
home should contact Scunthorpe Police on (01724) 274200.

john.spittlehouse@scunthorpetelegraph.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                             May 2, 2001, Thursday

NEW PLEA OVER TERROR ATTACKS. SHOP A YOB

BYLINE: Mark Stead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 348 words


ELY residents in Cardiff have been told that before evening bus services return
to the area, they have to work harder to shop the yobs.

More than a month since Cardiff Bus put the brakes on the Ely night run
following a string of terrifying attacks on buses, no immediate reinstatement is
in sight.

And the company's operations manager, Graham Cartwright, says he is
"disappointed" with the lack of response from residents in the bid to catch the
vandals and end Cardiff's public transport terror.

"We want to find a solution which will ensure the safety of our drivers and
passengers. Unfortunately, there seems to have been very little feedback from
people in Ely in terms of passing information about these culprits to the
police.

"Talking to police, there has not been a great response in identifying the
people who are doing this, and I am slightly disappointed at that. Most people

in Ely are good people but they are suffering because of the actions of others."

Mr Cartwright confirmed negotiations between Cardiff Bus and police are still
ongoing. Buses through Ely after 7.30pm were cancelled on March 23 after more
than 100 attacks on buses in six months left drivers scared for their lives.

A police spokeswoman said: "We agree with Cardiff Bus that we want to see an end
to these problems as soon as possible.

"We would once again ask anyone in Ely or the surrounding areas who has any
information about these bus attacks to contact us."

Meanwhile, Joan Hughes, secretary of Ely's Seat West Four Residents'
Association, says most residents are just about managing to cope without evening
buses.

"People are refusing to be intimidated, " she said. "The main problem is for
those who want to do late-night shopping on Thursdays, or who rely on the bus
for work.

"It is not affecting some people as much as others but it is an inconvenience
and it would be nice for things to get back to normal."

To shop a yob contact South Wales Police on 029 2022 2111 or Crimestoppers on
0800 555 111. To report a rail crime call 0800 405 040.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BUS BLUES Cardiff Bus services to Ely are still stopping after; 7.30pm.
PICTURE: Echo photographer

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        May 3, 2001, Thursday Edition 1

Brit Is Killed In Car Bomb Explosion -Woman In Possible Terrorist Attack In
Athens

BYLINE: Evening Chronicle

SECTION: WORLD TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 319 words


   A British woman died today in Athens in an explosion believed to have been
caused when a bomb she was carrying in her car went off by mistake.

The woman, named locally as London-born Susan-Mary Arris, 49, was found in a car
with British registration plates in the southern suburb of Voula.

The bomb had been placed underneath the handbrake and a remote control device
was found in a bag in the car.

The woman was wearing black gloves and had cotton wool in her ears, police said.

Their investigation was understood to be focusing on the woman's possible links
with organised crime rather than terrorism or suicide.

One theory was that the bomb went off accidentally as she travelled to an
unknown destination to plant it in the early hours of this morning.

The explosion happened at around 3am [1am BST]. A dog was also found dead inside
the car.

The woman is believed to have been married to a Greek national.

A spokeswoman for the British Embassy in Athens said: "At the moment we are in
contact with the police to try to confirm the identity of the woman and her
nationality."

The explosion follows the murder of British military attache Brigadier Stephen
Saunders, 52, in the Greek capital in June last year.

He was ambushed by members of terrorist group November 17 as he drove to the
embassy in Athens.

Two men on a motorcycle pulled alongside his official white Rover 800 as it
stopped in traffic and the pillion passenger fired a semi-automatic rifle
through the passenger window.

When the rifle jammed after the first shot, the rider drew a .45 Colt pistol and
shot the decorated Army officer four times.

The father-of-two managed to get out of his car and cry for help but collapsed
in the street and died in hospital.

His widow, Heather, 44, renewed her call for his killers to face justice after
an inquest in Wiltshire last month recorded a verdict of unlawful killing.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                  May 4, 2001

Macedonian attack on 'terrorists'

SECTION: Agency: AGENCY, Pg.23

LENGTH: 84 words


MACEDONIAN government forces launched an offensive against ethnic Albanian
rebels yesterday, hours after two soldiers were killed and at least one
kidnapped in an ambush that reflected escalating tensions in the Balkan country.

The army and police launched the counterattack "to eliminate the Albanian
terrorists" and gave targeted villages until 1700 BST to evacuate. Macedonian
security forces then appealed to the ethnic Albanian rebels not to use civilians
as "human shields" in the fighting.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                  May 8, 2001

Brutal attack on elderly lady
 TERROR: Thief breaks in at 4am and steals cash

BYLINE: Jayne Freer Crime Reporter

SECTION: News: 999, Pg.2

LENGTH: 290 words


AN ELDERLY woman was tied up with her own teatowel by a burglar she disturbed
breaking into her home in the middle of the night.

After restraining her, the raider threatened to return and stab her if she told
anyone about what had happened.

The woman, who is in her seventies and does not want to be identified, has been
left terrified by the ordeal at her Pennycross bungalow, say detectives.

It happened at around 4am on Saturday morning as the elderly woman woke to use
the bathroom. Noticing her kitchen light on, she went to investigate.

There she was confronted by a man dressed in dark clothing who had managed to
clamber in through a front window.

The burglar ordered her back into the bedroom, made her lie on the bed and used
strips of teatowel which he had ripped up to tie her hands loosely together.

Terrifying

As she lay there terrified, he searched underneath her bed where he found GBP
250 of her pension and then fled the bungalow.

The elderly woman eventually managed to free herself and triggered her Piper
security alarm, which alerted the police.

Detective Sergeant Gary Smith, of Plymouth's burglary unit, said it was a
'nasty' incident and appealed for help, fearing the man could strike again.

Ds Smith said: "She was terrified. This is a very worrying incident and the old
lady has been traumatised by the incident.

"She is coping extremely well with the situation but having said that it could
have been a lot worse."

She is now being cared for by relatives.

Ds Smith added: "If anyone knows who has committed this offence please come
forward before he does the same thing to another old lady."

The man is described as white, around 5ft 4ins tall and clean shaven. He was
wearing dark clothing and a baseball cap.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        May 9, 2001, Wednesday Edition 1

School Arson Attack Terror

BYLINE: Evening Chronicle

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 158 words


   Arsonists were being hunted by police today after a blaze ripped through a
Tyneside school forcing 800 pupils and staff to flee.

The blaze wrecked two classrooms at King George Comprehensive in South Shields,
and nine others were damaged by heat and smoke.

Six fire crews were sent to the school in Nevinson Avenue, South Shields, after
the alarm was raised and it was feared pupils were trapped in a blazing
building.

Crews took 45 minutes to bring the fire under control after it started in a
building used as an artroom and storeroom. The room was gutted and an adjoining
classroom containing computer equipment was severely damaged.

Fire chiefs believe lighted paper was pushed through a hole in the artroom and
storeroom and set alight.

Headteacher Dr John Frain said the blaze was confined to the technology
department which is now out of action.

= Anyone with information is urged to contact police on [0191] 4547555.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        May 9, 2001, Wednesday Edition 2

Schoolkids' Arson Attack Terror -Pupils Flee As Blaze Wrecks Two Classrooms

BYLINE: Evening Chronicle

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 247 words


   Arsonists were being hunted by police today after a blaze ripped through a
Tyneside school forcing 800 pupils and staff to flee.

The blaze wrecked two classrooms at King George Comprehensive in South Shields
and nine others were damaged by heat and smoke.

Six fire crews were initially sent to the school in Nevinson Avenue, South
Shields, after the alarm was raised and it was feared pupils were trapped in a
blazing building.

But as firefighters tackled the blaze to stop it spreading staff confirmed all
pupils were safe and well.

Crews took 45 minutes to bring the fire under control after it started in a
building used as an artroom and storeroom. The room was gutted and

an adjoining classroom containing computer equipment was severely damaged.

A Tyne : "It was a difficult fire and first reports said people were trapped.
Fortunately this turned out not to be the case."

A spokesman for South Tyneside education department said when the alarm was
raised just before 2pm yesterday the school's fire drill emergency came into
operation and the premises were evacuated.

After a register was taken and everyone accounted for, all the pupils were sent
home.

The spokesman said: "The extent of the damage will be fully inspected and work
on repairs will be carried out as soon as possible."

Fire chiefs believe lighted paper was pushed through a hole in the artroom and
storeroom.

Anyone with information is urged to contact police on [0191] 4547555.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 11, 2001, Friday

SEX ATTACK TERROR FOR MUM-TO-BE;
 SHE HAS PREMATURE TOT AFTER ORDEAL

BYLINE: Ann Mooney

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 394 words


A PREGNANT woman sexually assaulted after two men who stole her boyfriend's car
said yesterday she will never recover from her ordeal.

The victim gave birth to a premature baby after being abducted. Yesterday
father-of-three James Foley was jailed for eight years for offences related to
the incident.

Cork Circuit Criminal Court heard the young woman was sitting in the passenger
seat of the car while her boyfriend went into a chip shop, leaving the keys in
the ignition.

Foley, 26, of Knocknaheeney in Cork City, climbed into the driver's seat and
drove off after his friend jumped in on top of the woman.

The other man, who has not been caught, sexually assaulted the woman as the car
sped down the road from the chip shop near Foley's home.

Three rings were stolen from the woman before she was dumped in the middle of
the road.

Gardai found her wandering in a distressed state and took her to her boyfriend's
home.

When he heard what happened to her he was physically sick. The victim was not in
court but Garda witness Declan Lynch said she was five months pregnant and her
baby was born 10 weeks premature.

She remains deeply disturbed by the incident and will not stay in a car on her
own or go out at night alone. She forced her boyfriend to sell the car and still
suffers from terrible nightmares.

Garda Lynch said Foley was a drug addict and "a dangerous criminal".

Later that night when arrested in connection with a burglary at Popes Quay,
Foley had one of the three stolen rings in his pocket.

He admitted his involvement in the theft of the car and abduction of the woman,
but denied sexually assaulting her.

Foley told the court that he had a serious drugs problem.

He said "I realise now that I am in my sober senses that I have this problem. I
know when I am taking them I am a dangerous person, but I want help.

"I am sorry for what happened to this woman. I did not know what I was doing."

Judge AG Murphy was told that Foley had tested positive for drugs while in Cork
prison and he said he was not satisfied the accused was dealing with his drug
problem.

He jailed Foley for eight years and said that the new Parole Board should review
his sentence after four years, so long as he attends all courses and counselling
available and does not test positive for drugs again in jail.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JAILED: James Foley yesterday

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Sunday Herald

                                  May 13, 2001

UN says 130 terrorist groups capable of nuclear attack

BYLINE: Exclusive By Rob Edwards Environment Editor

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 733 words


THE United Nations has reported a doubling of the number of attempts to smuggle
radioactive materials and identified 130 terrorist groups capable of developing
a homemade atomic bomb.

These include notorious organisations such as Osama bin Laden's Al-Qaida in
Afghanistan and the Aum Shinrikyo cult in Japan, along with a host of lesser
known ethnic, right-wing political and religious groups, according to a secret
UN report.

In a confidential report, marked "Strictly not for publication or distribution"
and presented to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), which has been
obtained by the Sunday Herald, the paper's author, Alex Schmid, the head of the
UN's Terrorism Prevention Branch, is confident that terrorists have the motive,
the skills and the materials to develop a nuclear capability and that there is
enough plutonium and enriched uranium left over from the cold war to make
hundreds of thousands of bombs.

New figures from the IAEA, the UN body charged with promoting and regulating
nuclear power, reveal that the number of confirmed attempts to smuggle
radioactive materials worldwide has doubled over the last five years. Since
1993, 550 incidents have been recorded on the agency's database on illicit
trafficking of nuclear materials, of which more than 370 have been confirmed by
the countries in which they took place.

Although most of the incidents involved materials like radioactive scrap metal
or radiation sources that could not be made into bombs, one in 10 included
weapons-grade plutonium or uranium.

In the report presented to the IAEA, Schmid warns that much of the nuclear
material in the former Soviet republics is poorly protected and the risk of some
being stolen is growing. "Time might not be on our side. The amount of plutonium
in the world is increasing,"Schmid warned. "Vigorous efforts need to be made to
keep the nuclear genie in the bottle and out of the hands of terrorists."

His 40-page report reveals that there are 130 terrorist organisations listed by
the US Department of State as posing a potential nuclear, chemical or biological
threat.

They include 55 ethnic groups, 50 religious groups, 20 left-wing groups and five
right-wing groups from around the world. Bin Laden has said that acquiring a
bomb to defend Muslims is a "religious duty". In 1998 an aide was arrested in
Munich by German police and charged with trying to obtain enriched uranium.

In the same year Israeli intelligence reported that bin Laden paid £2 million to
a middle man in Kazakhstan who promised to deliver a bomb in a suitcase within
two years. Aum Shinrikyo, which released deadly sarin gas into Tokyo's
underground in 1995, has similar ambitions. The report disclosed that the cult
has spent $ 400,000 (£282,000) on a sheep farm in Australia which included eight
uranium mines.  The group has also invested millions of dollars on laser
enrichment technology and collected information about nuclear transports.

Experts say it takes no more than five kilograms of plutonium and around 15kg of
enriched uranium to make bombs like the ones which devastated Hiroshima and
Nagasaki in 1945.

"Most of the weapons-usable nuclear materials in the kilogram range are stored
in nearly 400 buildings which are not all guarded in the way they should be
guarded. This quantity of dangerous but potentially precious materials offers a
temptation for adventurers and desperados," said Schmid's report.

Several cases of insider theft have been documented at Russian facilities, where
many workers and guards are poorly paid. There are no accurate inventories of
nuclear materials, alarm systems can be disabled, wax seals designed to prevent
tampering are easily faked and fences are full of holes and overgrown with
vegetation.

There have been six confirmed incidents involving bomb-capable plutonium and
uranium in the last two years, including the seizure of almost a kilogram of
enriched uranium fast-reactor fuel pellets in the former Soviet republic of
Georgia in April 2000.

Others include the discovery of six grams of plutonium in a cargo of scrap at
the Liepaja sea port in Latvia at the beginning of January this year, and of
three grams of plutonium in a forest near the village of Asvestochori in Greece
later the same month.

www.iaea.or.at/worldatom/

www.nci.org/

www.greenpeace.org

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: map not available in database

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 14, 2001, Monday

Attack of the terrors

BYLINE: Anjana Ahuja

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 1019 words


Why do spiders, heights, flying, mice or even puppets turn some of us to jelly?
Anjana Ahuja reports on phobias and their treatment.

Kemal Sunal was Turkey's best-loved comedian. He had a lifelong fear of flying,
but last summer he decided he would try to conquer it. He booked a flight from
Istanbul to the Black Sea port of Trebizond, where he was due to start a film.

Sunal never made it. The 55-year-old died of a heart attack just before
boarding. This is a phobic's worst nightmare -it may not have been a plane crash
that killed him, but the very thing he dreaded most got him in the end.

Most phobias are not so severe, but they are disabling for the people who suffer
them. They are also one of neuroscience's great mysteries -what compels the
brain to turn the perfectly mundane into the menacing? Last month, scientists
reported that phobias appear to be linked to a genetic mutation on chromosome
15. Of phobics studied by Dr Xavier Estevill, a geneticist at a Barcelona
hospital, 97 per cent showed the mutation, compared with 7 per cent of
non-phobics.

"It's a susceptibility factor," Dr Estevill concluded, which means that having
the mutation does not guarantee a phobia but puts a person at greater risk of
one. He reported his findings at an Edinburgh meeting of the Human Genome
Organisation. His research adds to a previous estimate that two out of five
people with phobias have a phobic parent. However, personal experience -in
particular a traumatic event, such as a plane crash -can also become the
template for irrational dread.

Almost anything can become the object of fear; the list of phobias is endless to
the point of being ridiculous. There are lots of people who abhor flying
(aerophobia or aviophobia), spiders (arachnophobia) and confined spaces
(claustrophobia). But there are also some who freeze when they see the colour
white (leukophobia), puppets (pupaphobia) or the Moon (selenophobia).

Phobia is different from fear. It is common for plane passengers to feel a
little apprehensive, but if the apprehension escalates to a persistent mental
image of the plane spiralling to its doom, shortness of breath, a pounding
heartbeat and the conviction that one's time is up, then the fear has crossed
over into phobia. Logic rarely appeals to the phobic -air travel may be the
safest form of travel, but that is little reassurance for a person who believes
he is destined to defy the statistics.

Psychologists recognise three main phobia types: social phobia, brought on by
the prospect of contact with people; panic disorders, where a sense of fear
engulfs the sufferer out of the blue and has no obvious trigger; and specific
phobias, such as the fear of spiders or heights. Phobias are also characterised
by avoidance: someone who is genuinely terrified of flying will avoid it at all
costs. The Arsenal footballer Dennis Bergkamp has regularly missed international
matches because of his fear of flying.

Most specific phobias appear to be hangovers from our ancestral past. A dread of
snakes is amazingly common, considering that most people do not routinely come
across them. But, psychologists say, it would have been essential for early
human beings to associate certain animals and insects with danger. This also
explains persistent fears of heights and of the dark, or of being confined or
caught in wide open spaces. These all represent situations that could have been
dangerous for our forebears. Not all of us have been able to "unlearn" those
innate fears and, in childhood, those cautionary instincts serve us well.

However, other fears can be picked up or learnt. People who have been bitten by
dogs may become phobic about them; plane crash survivors often find it too
traumatic to face flying again. Nine out of ten sufferers of specific phobias
are women -a statistic that may result from women being more willing to own up
to fears. Social phobias do not favour any gender.

The good news is that science is proving surprisingly adept at dealing with
phobias. Avoiding a perceived threat often magnifies it, so one mode of dealing
with a phobia is to confront the patient, gradually, with his or her fear, such
as a spider. But this kind of exposure therapy is not always practical. How can
you cure a phobia about flying? The answer is to strap the patient into a real
airline seat, put a helmet on, and allow virtual reality programs to simulate
turbulence and the view out of the plane window.

VR programs are being used increasingly to combat phobias -those who fear
heights can grip a metal rail while a virtual lift whisks them up 50 floors.
There are even programs for those petrified of public speaking, who are made to
address an audience that sniggers at them or pays no attention. This appears to
be as effective as real exposure therapy, curing between 80 and 90 per cent of
sufferers.

What about social phobias? Cognitive behaviour therapy attempts to change the
patient's thinking so that he or she is not tormented continually by feelings of
inadequacy. And if that doesn't work, there are always drugs. Last year a drug
called Paxil was licensed for use in America for the treatment of shyness. Only
last month, an article in the New England Journal of Medicine suggested that
anxiety-prone children can be helped by an antidepressant called Luvox. Like
Prozac, it increases the levels of serotonin in the brain.

Children with severe social phobias had previously been unable to sleep, were
frightened of going to school, or felt that terrible things would befall them.
Dr John Walkup, from Johns Hopkins University, said that three quarters of the
children he treated lost their phobias within eight weeks. But this approach
raises grave concerns that the drugs may alter brain chemistry in an
unpredictable way, or may force children who would gradually abandon their
phobias to become dependent on medication.

Mark Riddle, one of the study's authors, comments: "We don't want a Prozac
nation." The fight to banish phobias from the human psyche looks set to be a
long and controversial one.


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                  May 15, 2001

Lord Provost's move after terror attacks on asylum seekers;Summit call to
protect refugees

BYLINE: By Iain Duff

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 402 words


A SPECIAL meeting of police, social workers and refugee groups will be held
tomorrow amid growing fears for the safety of asylum seekers in Glasgow.

Tension is mounting after the latest attack on a Kurdish refugee in the Red Road
area.

Now Lord Provost Alex Mosson has called the meeting, which will also be attended
by councillors.

It will take place at the City Chambers after claims that some asylum seekers
have bought weapons to protect themselves from racist attacks. Police

have said there was "no evidence" that refugees were arming themselves.

The Middle Eastern Network, which is based in Glasgow, said there had been 70
assaults in the Sighthill and Red Road areas

this year.

A spokeswoman for the organisation claimed it was only a matter of time before
someone was killed.

In the most recent incident Habi Abbas, a 31-year-old Iraqi Kurd, was beaten up
by three men as he waited for a bus in Red Road after visiting friends.

Mr Mosson said tomorrow's meeting had been called to address all the problems
facing the refugee community. But it is understood measures to protect asylum
seekers will be the main topic of

discussion.

The Lord Provost said: "We want asylum seekers to merge into

society here. They have come from difficult enough backgrounds as

it is and we want them to be made welcome."

The Scottish Refugee Council said the latest attack had made

asylum seekers and their families even more wary of going outdoors.

A spokeswoman said: "Many

asylum seekers in Sighthill are

living in terror and are too scared to go out.

"It would not be surprising if people felt driven to take desperate steps to
defend themselves and their families.

"The increase in violent attacks on asylum seekers is of major

concern."

Police are still investigating the attack on Mr Abbas.

A spokesman said they had not ruled out the possibility that the attack was
racially motivated.

Officers will be going into the worst-hit areas to distribute leaflets in
Kurdish, Arabic and Farsi in an attempt to encourage witnesses to come forward.

Glasgow has around 3500 asylum seekers and the number is expected to double
before the end of the year.

Many of those living in the city are professionals, such as doctors and lawyers,
but they are banned from working while they wait to find out if they are allowed
to stay

in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CALL FOR ACTION: Lord Provost Alex Mosson

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 15, 2001

Racism ordeal of a refugee scarred after vicious attack;Kurd who fled Iraqi
terror now feels a prisoner in Glasgow flat

BYLINE: Lorna Martin

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 638 words


SHWAN Kareem Saeed thought he had left racism and ignorance behind him. But his
scars serve as a lifelong reminder of how wrong he was.

He may have managed to escape from an Iraqi jail relatively unscathed, unlike
his brother who was killed for the same crime - being Kurdish.

However, he has not been so fortunate in his temporary new home in Sighthill.
These days, the 28-year-old is essentially a prisoner in a small, eleventh
-floor flat in Glasgow, too afraid to venture outside after a vicious attack in
January which left him scarred on his hip and groin and still attending
hospital.

But it is the emotional wounds that run deeper. "I cannot understand why people
do this," he says in broken English. "Fifteen people came at me with bottles,
and knives and metal bars. 'Why the f...  did you come here?' they said. 'Why,
why, why, why? Go back where you f..... came from.'

"Iraq is very bad because Saddam Hussein, with Kurdish, it is no good. I was in
prison for a year. My brother was in prison for a year too but he was killed. So
I came here. But here it is also very bad."

So bad, in fact, that Shwan, who came to Glasgow 10 months ago under the
government's dispersal system for distributing refugees across the UK, would
rather return to the tyrannical regime from which he was forced to flee.

Meanwhile, he spends most of his time indoors, going out only when he runs out
of food. Then, he braves a quick journey to the local Lidl supermarket, the only
place where he can spend his weekly £25 allowance of vouchers. "I am too scared
to go out," he admits quietly. "Glasgow is very good, Scotland is very good.
Some people are nice and welcoming, but not in Sighthill."

Last week, Habi Abbas, also an Iraqi Kurd, was attacked by a gang as he waited
for a bus. The 31-year-old, who lives in the south side of Glasgow, had been
visiting other asylum-seekers in Petershill Court Flats, in Red Road, Glasgow.

He was taken to Stobhill Hospital with serious head injuries after the incident
last Tuesday and was yesterday in a stable condition in the Southern General
Hospital. The attack was the latest in a series of assaults on asylum-seekers in
the Sighthill and Red Road areas, with nearly 70 being reported this year.

Last month, brothers Haitham and Iyad Saada, received hospital treatment for
serious injuries following an attack in Sighthill. With as many as 2000 refugees
living in the area, attacks have been escalating at a rate of nearly 200% a
month.

There have been warnings that refugees have started arming themselves with
knives to defend themselves and their families because they feel that the police
are not doing enough.

A spokeswoman for the Scottish Refugee Council said the charity had no knowledge
of such action, but said it would be no surprise if refugees were taking the law
into their own hands.

"It is a fact that many asylum-seekers in Sighthill are living in terror and are
too scared to go out. It would not be surprising if people felt driven to take
desperate steps to defend themselves and their families. The increase in violent
attacks on asylum seekers is of major concern. Racism is becoming a stain on the
reputation of Glasgow."

Strathclyde Police yesterday defended their handling of

violence against refugees and said there was no evidence that they were arming
themselves with knives. A spokeswoman said: "Strathclyde Police takes very
seriously issues affecting asylum-seekers. There is no place in our society for
vigilante-style actions."

But Shwan, his dark eyes wide and sad, tells a different story: "Two or three
times I called the police. I pointed out who attacked me. But five minutes
later, the police went away. Maybe the police cannot do anything. I do not carry
a knife, but, many of the refugees do."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: RISKY TRIP: Shwan Kareem Saeed on occasion braves a quick journey to
the supermarket to spend his weekly £25 allowance of vouchers Picture: CHRIS
JAMES

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             May 17, 2001, Thursday

FIND MONKEY MAN;
 CITY IN TERROR AFTER ATTACKS BY BEAST

BYLINE: Mark Ellis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 325 words


MASS hysteria is sweeping a city after a spate of attacks by a superpowered
ape-like beast.

A pregnant woman and a man have fallen to their deaths fleeing in panic from the
creature dubbed Monkey Man.

And police have issued photofits showing a bizarre ape with distinctly human
features based on eyewitness reports.

Some of those attacked said it wore glasses, had metal claws, a moustache and
even wore a helmet.

All the victims, who have been bitten and scratched in New Delhi in the past two
weeks, thought the attacker was bigger than an ape.

The hysteria is complicated by the fact that monkeys have a sacred status in
India and can't be killed or trapped and around 10,000 roam the streets of the
city.

Police spokesman Suresh Roy said: "We have consulted doctors about the bites and
they said they were by some animal.

"But we checked the local zoo and they said no animal had escaped from there."

A pregnant woman sleeping on her terrace was awoken by neighbours shouting "the
monkey has come" and fell down a staircase and died in hospital.

Two nights earlier, panic swept a suburb and a factory worker plunged to his
death.

Prakash Chand, 37, said he was unsure if it was a man or a monkey that attacked
him.

He said: "I was sleeping on our terrace and woke up when I heard this strange
growling sound.

"It was about five feet tall, very well built and whacked me hard on my arm."

He said it jumped from the first floor and vanished into the darkness.

One woman said two of her husband's teeth were knocked out by a metallic hand.

Another victim said: "It was a monkey all right and about four foot tall, but as
soon as I grabbed it, it turned into a cat with glowing eyes."

Earlier this year, the monkey population explosion in New Delhi was said to be
creating havoc.

Some were said to be sneaking into army bases and destroying equipment and
walking off with secret files.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Life

                                  May 20, 2001

Couple's caravan gun attack terror

BYLINE: MARTIN BREEN

LENGTH: 339 words


A GUNMAN shot up an Ulster couple's caravan as they slept inside at a Donegal
beauty spot.

These pictures show how the vehicle's window was smashed over the bed where the
Bangor husband and wife were sleeping.

Irish police are now investigating the incident, after pellet marks were
discovered above the window.

It is believed an air rifle may have been used by the attacker.

The caravan owner, who does not want to be identified, said the experience had
put him off visiting the Republic.

He recalled how he and his wife were woken around 4am on May 7 when the large
double-glazed window above their bed came crashing in on top of them.

The holidaymakers had parked at a carpark between Cresslough and Carrigart, as
they toured Co Donegal over the May Day holiday.

He said last night: "At first, we thought a brick or something had been used to
smash the window but, on closer inspection, we found two small indentations in
the bodywork.

"There is now no doubt that we had not been attacked at close quarters by thugs
with hammers, but someone using either a shotgun or air rifle to shoot at the
rear of the van, hitting it at least four times.

"My family and I have over the past 20 years toured most European countries as
well as England and Ireland and have never been subjected to anything like this
anywhere before.

"Sadly, it had to be in my own country that we had to be subjected to this life
threatening attack.

"Whoever carried out this attack are evil people and, no matter what their
twisted reasons, there can be no justification for it."

The family has now cancelled their summer holidays in the Republic as a result
of the terrifying experience.

"Sad to say that I, who consider myself an Irishman, will not in the near future
be taking any vehicle into the Republic," the man said.

"Our main family holidays in July, when we had planned to tour the west of
Ireland, have now been cancelled."

The cost of the damage to his caravan is estimated to be (GBP) 600.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             May 22, 2001, Tuesday

SEX ATTACK TERROR FOR 15-YEAR-OLD BABYSITTER;
 POLICE HUNT FOR SHORT, SILENT MAN WITH A BEER BELLY

BYLINE: Jenny Mackenzie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 836 words


POLICE are hunting a sex attacker who pounced on a terrified 15-year- old girl
as she walked home from a night of baby-sitting

The teenager was left extremely shaken and frightened after being indecently
assaulted during the early hours of Saturday as she walked along Long Street,
Atherstone.

Detectives are scouring north Warwickshire to find the attacker before he
strikes again.

Police revealed yesterday that the girl noticed a man, aged about 30, standing
on the opposite side of the road watching her, shortly after 1.30am.

As she turned left into Coleshill Street she was pushed from behind into a small
gateway where the man knocked her down and assaulted her.

The teenager eventually managed to push her attacker away and escaped down Long
Street.

She ran to the nearby Berties Nightclub where she raised the alarm and police
were called.

A Warwickshire police spokesman said: "The youngster did not require hospital
treatment but she was obviously extremely shaken and frightened by her ordeal."

Her attacker is described as white, 5ft 5in to 5ft 6in, stocky, with a beer
belly. He had very short hair, almost a crew cut, and was clean shaven.

He was wearing light-coloured blue jeans, of a baggy style, a white round-
necked T-shirt and black trainers or shoes.

He smelled very heavily of alcohol and did not speak to the youngster throughout
her ordeal.

Anyone with information is asked to contact DC Neil Whitlock at Nuneaton CID on
024 7664 1111.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                  May 22, 2001

Disabled boy in arson attack terror

BYLINE: Pauline Hawkins (author email phawkins@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 486 words

DATELINE: Bolton



A SEVERELY disabled boy was dropped screaming from a first floor window into the
arms of a hero neighbour after his home was targeted by arsonists.

Joshua Pollitt, aged nine, was taken to hospital after being rescued from the
building by passer-by Scott Sanderson.

Detectives are treating the attack as arson

It was the second arson in the street in two days and the seventh in the Little
Hulton area in the past fortnight.

Joshua was asleep in the flat at 3am on Sunday when his father, Darren Eastwood,
31, and his girlfriend Nicola Armstrong, 20, were woken up.

Mr Eastwood saw thick black smoke drifting up the stairs.

Mr Sanderson, who was returning home after a night out, saw the fire outside the
flat in Petunia Walk.

Arsonists had set a wheelie bin alight and propped it up against the front door
of the council accommodation.

Joshua was thrown from the front window into the arms of Mr Sanderson.

Firefighters arrived and Mr Eastwood escaped from a ladder. Ms Armstrong was led
down the stairs once the blaze had been put out. They were taken to the Royal
Bolton Hospital suffering from shock and smoke inhalation.

The parents were worried about the boy's breathing because he recently had a
tracheotomy.

Ms Armstrong, a care assistant at a nursing home, said: "I was absolutely
petrified.

"Why on earth would anyone want to set fire to a flat with a family in it? We
keep wondering whether someone has a grudge against us."

Nicola's mother, Gaynor Williams, said: "I can't tell you what I think about
these people, they must be sick. I just hope the police get to them before I
do."

The family are currently staying with Mrs Williams at her home on Thornfield
Grove until their flat is repaired.

The couple plan to say thank you to Mr Sanderson later today by presenting him
with a bottle of whisky.

Det Insp Ray Towey, of Swinton CID, said the police e were aware of the fire on
Petunia Walk. He added: "We are investigating the incident and will be looking
to see if there is trend in these type of fires."

Farnworth Station Officer Alan Peek said: "This could very easily have turned
out to be a very tragic incident.

"What is worrying is that an almost identical incident happened the previous
night when rubbish was piled up outside a home nearby and set alight."

James Beatle, 21, of Petunia Walk, was the victim on Friday night.

He helped Joshua last night. He said: "My 18 month old son and girlfriend were
with me when my flat was set on fire."

Police are investigating a spate of car fires in Little Hulton yesterday after a
resident spotted two men wearing balaclavas setting fire to cars in a showroom.

Firefighters were called to Spa Crescent at 2.30am to tackle a blazing vehicle
and discovered three other burning cars 400 yards away at Walkden VW Car Centre,
Manchester Road.

One car was severely damaged.


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                  May 23, 2001

Pub regular's terror attack on landlady

BYLINE: Nikki Masters and Keith Raffaelli (author email
nikki.masters@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 259 words

DATELINE: Burnley



A DRUNKEN pub regular who broke into his local twice in the early hours and
terrified the landlady, was today starting a 15-month jail sentence.

Burnley Crown Court heard how the licensee had awoken in the early hours to find
Philip Speak, 36, standing next to her bed.

Deeply shocked, she jumped out of bed, got hold of the defendant and pushed him
out of the room -- but he came back.

The defendant told her he had only come to rob the premises.

Sentencing Speak, Judge Raymond Bennett said it was sad to see him in the dock
and it may well be drink that was behind the offence.

He went on: "Whether it was your intention to rob, whether there was some other
intention or whether it was just drink one can only guess, but even in drink,
you are responsible for your own actions."

Speak, of Holgate Street, Great Harwood, had earlier admitted burglary and been
committed for sentence by the Hyndburn Magistrates. He had no previous
convictions.

Kendal Lindley, prosecuting, said the landlady of the Walmsley Arms, Great
Harwood, in courage and fear managed to manhandle the defendant downstairs and
out of the pub.

She went to her daughter's room to explain to her what was going on, but Speak
broke back into the premises.

Roger Baldwin, defending, said the incident offence was isolated and out of
character.

The defendant had managed to overcome the problem of binge drinking at weekends
and was at very low risk of reoffending.

If Speak lost his liberty, he would lose his job and his house.



LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                  May 24, 2001

Store raid victim's needle attack terror

BYLINE: By Jclarke

SECTION: News:999:Others, Pg.2

LENGTH: 317 words


Store worker in six-month wait for results

Jenny Clarke

A YOUNG shop worker today described the ter$-rifying moment a robber tried to
stab him in the face with a syringe.

Raymond McKay, 20, blocked the blow with his hand but the needle still pierced
his finger.

The young man then chased the attacker out of the Aber$-deen shop.

Mr McKay, who has only worked at the Balnagask Stores in Torry's Finnan Place
for two months, now faces a six-month wait for re$-sults from HIV and hepatitis
blood tests.

But the brave young man said he would do the same again.

The former Torry Academy pupil said he was making up sweet mixes with his back
to the door when he heard foot$-steps at around 3.30pm.

The attacker - who was wearing a bright yellow jacket - had a syringe in his
hand and told him to open the till.

When Mr McKay refused, the attacker raised his arm with the syringe.

"He went to stab me in the face but I put my hand up and he got me in the
finger," said Mr McKay.

"I was so angry when he stabbed me that I ran around the counter and chased him
out the shop."

Mr McKay, who is single and lives with his parents in Torry, said medics had
warned him there was a two per cent risk of the needle carrying an infection.

Mr McKay, who previously worked in a dairy, said the incident had not put him
off working in a shop.

And he said he would refuse to open the till for any would-be robber.

"It was just instinct but I would do the same again," he said.

CID officers investigating the attack are viewing CCTV footage from the area.

A police spokeswoman said: "The fact a syringe was used causes us great concern.
We would like anyone who saw anyone acting suspiciously to get in touch."

The robber was in his mid-20s, 5ft 9in and had black, scruffy hair. He ran off
in the direction of Balnagask Cir$-cle. Anyone with information should contact
police on 01224 386000.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2001 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 25, 2001

New fears of terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 65 words


A MASSIVE security operation is being mounted in London as senior antiterrorist
officers issued a new warning over fears of attacks by the Real IRA in the run
up to the election.

The biggest fear is that the terrorist cell will try to mount a big attack which
could lead to huge loss of life. The Yard is launching radio advertisements
appealing to Londoners to be vigilant.


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                  May 31, 2001

ATTACK TERROR in HAIR SALON
 Policemen grappled with man after he battered ex-girlfriend with chain

BYLINE: Exclusive By Kirsty Adderton

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 342 words


TEENAGER Donna Grimwood told today how she "played dead" while being savagely
attacked at work by her ex-boyfriend.

Luke Bass beat her across the head with a bike chain and padlock and threatened
her with a carving knife after bursting into the Newark hair salon where she
worked.

He continued hitting her when she fell to the floor as staff and customers tried
to pull him off.

Several police officers eventually restrained him, with one suffering broken
ribs in the struggle.

Donna, 18, needed ten stitches to a head wound and suffered a broken right hand,
dislocated left hand and cut eye.

She spoke to the Post after Bass, 18, of no fixed address, pleaded guilty to
causing her grievous bodily harm.

He will be sentenced at Nottingham Crown Court on June 28.

Donna said today: "I thought I was going to die. After Luke hit me across the
head I could not move. I was falling in and out of consciousness.

"All I can remember thinking is that if I played dead he would stop, but he
didn't, he just took the padlock and smashed me around the face again."

She praised the people who helped her, including an off-duty paramedic who
sprayed an aerosol at Bass.

An earlier hearing at Newark magistrates' court heard how Bass was obsessed with
Donna.

He suffered from paranoia and schizophrenia and had been referred by his GP to a
mental health team - but never heard anything.

The court was told Donna, of Newark, had seen Bass going in and out of Sadlers'
salon on the day of the attack

"I was in the staff room hiding because I was petrified of him. He just barged
his way past the others and came running towards me.

"My life has changed completely since the attack. I never thought Luke could
have been so vicious."

Salon manager Sarah Stewart, 22, said: "It was an horrific attack for us to
see."

A relative of Bass's said: "Luke is not very well. All I want to see is for him
to get better, and for Donna to get better and get on with her own life."

Notts police said the paramedic could be put forward for a bravery award.

Full story: Pages 6&7

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TERROR: Luke Bass and the salon where the attack happened

                     Copyright 2001 Nottingham Evening Post

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             June 2, 2001, Saturday

VILLAGERS RETURN TO HOMES AFTER ATTACK BY TERRORISTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 340 words


RESIDENTS of a Tyrone village returned to their homes yesterday afternoon
following the bomb attack on an RUC station in the early hours of yesterday.

Police confirmed that the bomb which exploded outside Sion Mills RUC Station
shortly after 3am contained around 10lbs of explosives.

No injuries were reported and no damage was caused to the station.

Dissident republicans have been blamed for the attack.

Around 50 families were evacuated from their homes and the main Strabane to
Omagh road was closed during the alert.

Last week, an improvised grenade was found at Strabane RUC Station, three miles
away.

DUP councillor Allan Bresland, who lives in Sion Mills, described the attack as
senseless, adding that the station was on a busy road, with a chapel and a
Baptist church located nearby.

Security chiefs believe a terrorist unit is operating around Londonderry, and in
the run-up to next week's election security forces remain on full alert.

RUC District Commander Clifford Best said the attack was reckless and
indescriminate.

He said that while there were endeavours to work in partnership with the
community, the dissidents were still deeply rooted in the past.

Mr William Thompson, Ulster Unionist Parliamentary candidate for West Tyrone,
condemned the "indiscriminate assault".

He said it was a miracle that no one was killed or injured.

"In the run up to the General Election, these terror tactics are typical from
those who oppose democracy and peace in our society." he said.

Brid Rodgers, SDLP candidate for Westminster, said that Northern Ireland wanted
to move on, leaving the violence and brutality behind.

"The physical force ideal has had its say. We don't want it back," she said.

Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams said the attack was out of step with republican
views.

Police want to hear from anyone who noticed suspicious activity around Sion
Mills RUC Station between midnight and 1: 30am yesterday morning to telephone
police at Strabane on 028 71 367 337.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 2, 2001, Saturday

NEW TERROR ATTACK BLOW TO MIDDLE EAST PEACE HOPES

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 236 words


A PALESTINIAN suicide bomber killed at least 18 people and wounded more than 90
when he blew himself up in a crowd of teenagers standing outside a seaside
nightclub in Tel Aviv, police said today.

The blast, shortly before midnight, was the deadliest attack in Israel in at
least four years and the worst since a Palestinian uprising against Israeli
occupation erupted eight months ago.

'I saw people lying on the floor. Some had no legs, no arms,' survivor Alex
Brodsky, aged 19, said after the blast, the seventh bomb attack against Israelis
since Prime Minister Ariel Sharon announced a unilateral ceasefire almost two
weeks ago.

Ambulance workers treated victims amid severed limbs and pools of blood which
covered the pavement. Around 90 people were wounded, some critically, from the
blast which occurred outside the Pacha nightclub, a popular haunt for Russian
immigrants.

Condemned

Palestinian President Yasser Arafat condemned the attack, his spokesman said.

President George W. Bush had earlier called on the Palestinian leader to
denounce the bombing and call for an immediate ceasefire.

'The president condemns such attacks especially against civilians and calls on
all sides to show self-restraint,' Mr Arafat's spokesman said.

Mr Sharon was meeting his top cabinet ministers today amid mounting pressure
from Israelis to retaliate and abandon his declared ceasefire.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                  June 3, 2001

The World: Terror attacks

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 178 words


Palestinian attacks since the peace accord in 1993:

1 June 2001: Suicide bomber blows up himself and 18 Israelis outside a Tel Aviv
nightclub.

30 July 1997: Two suicide bombers kill themselves and 15 others at a Jerusalem
market.

4 September 1997: Explosion in west Jerusalem kills eight.

30 July 1997: Two suicide bombers kill 16 shoppers in Jerusalem market.

4 March 1996: Suicide bomber kills 14 people outside a Tel Aviv mall.

3 March 1996: Suicide bomb on a Jerusalem bus kills 18.

25 February 1996: Suicide bombings in a Jerusalem bus and Ashkelon soldiers'
post kill 24 Israelis, two Americans and a Palestinian.

21 August 1995: Bomb on a Jerusalem bus kills five.

24 July 1995: Suicide bomber kills six passengers on a bus outside Tel Aviv.

9 April 1995: Suicide bomber attacks convoy in Gaza, killing seven Israeli
soldiers and a tourist.

22 January 1995: Two suicide bombers kill 21 in central Israel.

19 October 1994: Suicide bomber kills 23 on a Tel Aviv bus.

6 April 1994: Car bomb in Afula kills nine.


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  June 4, 2001

Airlines warned of missile attack threat by Islamic terrorists

BYLINE: Ian Bruce Geopolitics Editor

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 385 words


ISRAELI intelligence fears Islamic terrorists may be planning to shoot down a
civilian passenger aircraft as a "spectacular" to focus world attention on the
Palestinian uprising in Gaza and the West Bank and escalate a confrontation
which has already claimed more than 500 lives.

A quiet warning has been issued to all airlines flying into Israel after the
discovery of four Russian-made Strela-2 anti-aircraft missile launchers among a
cache of weapons intercepted on a Lebanese ship.

The weapons, known to Nato as Sam-7s, are designed to home in on the heat from
an aircraft's engines.

Although military jets and helicopter gunships are equipped with effective
countermeasures, civilian airliners are extremely vulnerable on take-off and
landing.

All passenger planes have been advised to maintain a minimum altitude of 8000ft,
just above the Strela's range, when flying over Palestinian-controlled territory
until further notice.

The Palestine Liberation Organisation has also already made two unsuccessful
attempts to destroy jets belong to El Al, Israel's national carrier, using the
same missiles.

The cargo confiscated by a boarding party of Israeli naval commandos from the
Lebanese-registered ship Santorini off Ras al-Naqoura on the Mediterranean coast
also included other disturbing hardware such as fragmentation land mines,
anti-tank rocket launchers, 50 Chinese-made Katyusha rockets and Russian light
mortars and ammunition.

A senior intelligence officer told The Herald: "The airline threat is the most
immediate, but the inclusion of Katyushas and mortars is an indicator that the
Palestinians are planning to hit settlements from long range and target our
armoured

vehicles.

"At the moment, their mortars are mostly home made, with limited capability.

"Their effect is mainly psychological. But with custom-built factory weapons,
they could inflict real damage and casualties on isolated communities. We
believe the arms are being supplied by Ahmed Jibril, the leader of the Popular
Front for the Liberation of Palestine General Command, based in Damascus.

"That means there must be Syrian government collusion at a high level and that
is a disturbing escalation."

Ahmed Jibril claims the vessel was boarded illegally in international waters.

LOAD-DATE: June 05, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 8, 2001, Friday

ELECTION 2001: 2 RUC MEN SHOT AT POLL STATION;
 TERROR ATTACK AS BLAIR WINS LANDSLIDE ELECTION VICTORY

BYLINE: Jilly Beattie And Ryan Parry

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 491 words


TWO RUC officers were shot in a terrorist attack outside a polling station last
night.

The men were wounded when a gunman opened fire just before the polls closed.

It is understood that a member of the public was also injured.

A terrorist stepped out of a car near St Mary's Primary School in Draperstown,
Co Derry, where voting was taking place and fired a number of shots.

It is believed one officer fired a single shot as the gunman fled the scene at
around 9.45pm.

One of the victims was wounded in the shoulder and the other was hit in the arm.

They were taken to hospital and first reports said their injuries were not life
-threatening.

Security sources said they believed the dissident republican gang the Real IRA
carried out the attack.

The shooting took place as the Labour Party are expected to romp back into power
in Britain today, securing a historic second successive full term in government.

Prime Minister Tony Blair hoped his party's strong lead in the opinion polls
would translate into another landslide victory as the votes were counted last
night.

Mr Blair and Conservative leader William Hague - with his wife Ffion - cast
their votes in their own constituencies, while Liberal Democrats leader Charles
Kennedy voted by post.

The final opinion polls of the campaign pointed to another big majority for
Labour, comparable to their landslide victory in 1997.

Officials in Southampton estimated that the final turnout would be between 60
and 65 per cent.

Meanwhile, the people of Northern Ireland have a longer wait for results
because, unlike other parts of the UK, there was no overnight counting of ballot
papers.

It was the first time people in the North were asked to vote for local
government and Westminster candidates on the same day.

A total of 97 candidates contested 18 Westminster seats.

In the council elections, 982 hopefuls battled it out for 582 local council
seats. Polling stations opened at 7am and closed at 10pm.

Counting in the Westminster election was due to start around lunch-time today
and the first results are expected this afternoon.

The electorate were faced with two different electoral systems - first past the
post for Westminster and proportional representation for the 26 district council
elections.

To make it easier, the electoral office used colour-coded poll cards, ballot
papers and ballot boxes - white for the general election and lilac for the
council contest. In the Westminster election, voters simply put an X beside
their choice, while in the local election they had to list their candidates in
order of preference.

In most areas, voters only had to go to one polling station, but there were some
exceptions.

Suffolk Primary School in West Belfast was the location for the Westminster
poll, but to vote in the local council election people had to travel more than a
mile to a polling station in Dunmurry.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POLL POSITION: Prime Minister Tony Blair and wife Cherie yesterday;;
WAIT: Hague and Ffion

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        June 11, 2001, Monday Edition 1

Lawyer In Race Attack Terror

BYLINE: Evening Chronicle

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 69 words


   A leading lawyer who specialises in fighting for asylum seekers was battered
senseless by hooded race hate yobs.

Tarlochan Gata-Aura, pictured, was pounced on in a planned attack by two men who
repeatedly rained blows on him.

Today, as he recovered from his ordeal, he told of the moment he feared he would
be killed, and said: "They just started laying into me, punching me for what
seemed an age."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        June 11, 2001, Monday Edition 1

Star Attack Terror

BYLINE: Evening Chronicle

SECTION: WORLD TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 60 words


   The husband of Basic Instinct star, Sharon Stone, suffered a shattered foot
after being attacked by a komodo dragon at the Los Angeles Zoo.

San Francisco Chronicle executive editor, Phil Bronstein and Stone, were on a
private tour of the zoo when Bronstein entered the Indonesian lizard's cage. He
is in a stable condition at a Los Angeles hospital.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 June 14, 2001

Armed gang in PO raid terror attack

BYLINE: Pete Oliver (author email poliver@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 77 words

DATELINE: Leigh



A GANG armed with a gun and sledgehammers burst into a post office in Tyldesley
at 9.50am.

The men ran into the Mosley Common branch, on Mosley Common Road and attempted
to smash the screen in front of the counter.

It is believed they failed to grab any cash and escaped in a car which was later
found abandoned in nearby Francis Street.

Post office staff were left shaken after the attempted raid, but it is thought
nobody was injured.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 June 15, 2001

WIDOW SPEAKS AFTER TERROR ATTACK;
 Brave Margaret thanks her supporters

BYLINE: CERI DOYLE

SECTION: News, Pg.3

LENGTH: 300 words


THE widow badly battered in her Weston-super-Mare home has spoken publicly for
the first time since the attack.

Margaret Bosley, aged 87, was brutally beaten with a wooden implement in the
bedroom of her home in Milton Road, Weston-super-Mare, on Saturday night.

She suffered severe cuts and bruising to her face. She needed a number of
stitches and is now recovering in hospital.

The Evening Post sent her a basket of flowers to wish her a speedy recovery.

Mrs Bosley spoke for the first time since her ordeal to express gratitude to
people for their support.

She said: "I would like to thank everybody for their generosity and good wishes.

"I have been totally overwhelmed by everybody's kindness.

"The flowers from the Evening Post are absolutely beautiful."

Detective constable Dale Buckingham, leading the investigation into attack,
said: "Mrs Bosley is doing very well but is very shaken and confused about her
ordeal.

"We are putting every possible bit of manpower into the investigation and
officers are even working on their days off.

"The public have been very shocked about this. They have been very helpful."

Police believe burglars broke into the house between 9pm and 9.30pm. They forced
an outside door and an inside door, causing damage to the frame.

They then attacked Mrs Bosley in her bed before making a partial search under
her bed. But they left empty handed.

She then made her way to the house of a neighbour, who called the police.

Mrs Bosley has been left shaken by her ordeal and has been unable to give the
police many details about the attack.

Anyone with information is asked to call Crimestoppers on 0800 555111 and a
1,500 reward is on offer for the information leading to the conviction of Mrs
Bosley attackers.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 16, 2001, Saturday

THE DOG OF WAR;
 MIGHTY QUINN IS ARMY'S LATEST WEAPON AGAINST TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: Tom Newton Dunn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 481 words


THIS is eight-year-old Quinn, and with him around there will be no hiding place
for terrorists.

The specially trained Malinois military police dog is used to foil attacks on
sensitive British government sites.

With a tiny infra-red video camera strapped to his head and wearing a bullet
-proof vest his job is to search buildings humans find hard to penetrate.

The camera beams live images back to officers waiting outside who can then
assess the situation and act accordingly.

Quinn may be put to work at nuclear weapons sites, research laboratories or
military command centres.

A UK Ministry of Defence Police spokesman said: "Quinn and his like dramatically
improve our capability for imprecise building searches.

"Their help means we can concentrate our firepower in the right place quickly
once the target is identified.

"Speed is essential in resolving siege situations on critical sites."

This month the MDP will introduce the first batch of dogs, including Quinn, into
service. Thirty will be trained up and ready for work by the end of the year.

Our exclusive pictures show Quinn at work inside Porton Down, the Defence
Ministry's secret test HQ in the Wiltshire countryside.

He is practising siege-storming techniques with the police force's chief
handler, Sergeant Murray Simmonds.

Armed with a highly developed sense of smell, Quinn knows to search likely
hiding places behind filing cabinets, artificial barricades or closed doors.

He is small and agile enough to be smuggled into buildings through ventilation
shafts or small windows.

The dogs are given the best possible instruction on how to avoid coming to any
harm themselves.

They are trained to bolt to safety at the sight of a gun pointed at them.

And if threatened with a knife or blunt object they will immediately leap to
clamp their jaws around the suspect's attacking arm.

If they assess that there is no risk to their safety the dogs will stay with the
terrorist and bark until armed officers arrive.

Handlers carry the animals in specially-designed back pouches when they need to
climb up to, or abseil down to, their infiltration points.

If the dogs find discarded guns, they are clever enough to pick them up and
bring them back to officers.

An MDP spokesman said: "The Malinois breed was chosen for the job over Alsatians
because of their supreme intelligence and durability."

The dogs will be based at the MDP's specialist firearms team centres around the
country.

The spokesman added: "It's obvious to anybody that the dogs don't mind wearing
the camera harnesses on their heads at all.

"They clearly enjoy their work and love being the centre of attention.

"Quinn and the others have also proved in tests that they are prepared to risk
their lives for humans.

"They really are pretty admirable and very brave animals."

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INFRA-RED CAMERA; Strapped to Quinn's head, this captures the
terrorists in action; TRANSMITTER PACK; Beams back images to officers waiting
outside search building; HARNESS: Secured as handler climbs ladder;; TRAPPED:
Quinn keeps a mock suspect at bay; BATTERY PACK; Keeps equipment working while
Quinn carries out his vital work; BULLET-PROOF VEST; The latest armour protects
dog in case he comes under fire

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                             June 18, 2001, Tuesday

BUS DRIVER TELLS OF ATTACK TERROR. VEHICLE ATTACKED BY MAN WITH MACHETE

BYLINE: Sarah Welsh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 355 words


A SOUTH Wales bus driver watched in horror as a motorist attacked his vehicle
with a machete and threatened to kill him.

Colin Christopher Boden, 34, of Fairview, Hirwaun, Aberdare, was on his first
trip of the day on Saturday morning, driving from Gilfach to Aberdare, when the
attack happened.

And in a separate incident, stone-throwing vandals attacked the Shamrock service
from Ystrad Mynach to Merthyr Tydfil. The bus was passing near Brithdir's
cemetery on Thursday when a large stone smashed through a window, showering
glass everywhere.

Reliving Saturday morning's attack, Mr Boden said:

"I had picked up two passengers and was driving along a residential street when
a car pulled up in front of me, forcing me to brake suddenly.

"The car was just left in the middle of the road and a man got out and came
towards the bus - he was shouting abuse and swearing at me.

"I asked him if he could move the car and that's when he pulled a machete from
the back seat. He came at the bus wielding it, and said he was going to kill me.
He swung the machete at me at the windscreen. It broke, shattering glass

everywhere.

He then just got into his car and sped off."

Mr Boden sat shaken and terrified for about 30 seconds before moving his bus to
the nearest bus stop about 100 yards down the road. He then immediately
contacted the police.

A spokesman for South Wales Police confirmed there had been an incident on the
bus route and a man had been arrested.

In Thursday's stone-throwing attack, driver Richard Williams was on his way to
Merthyr when a big stone came crashing through his window.

He said: "Luckily there were no passengers on the bus, just me, and it has left
me very shaken up."

Mr Williams, 27, from Edwardsville, Treharris, has only been on the buses for
three months but this was the second time he had been at the wheel when a stone
was thrown. He was driving through Merthyr recently when a stone struck his bus.

Clayton Jones, boss of Shamrock Travel, said the latest incidents were two too
many and he is renewing calls for "transport police" on the buses.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 25, 2001, Monday

HUNT ON FOR THUGS AFTER RACIST ATTACK;
 TERROR AS PUB IS ATTACKED BY MOB ASIAN MEN BEATEN TO GROUND BY TRIO

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 220 words


POLICE were today hunting three racist thugs who left an Asian man with serious
head injuries after repeatedly punching and kicking him in a brutal attack.

The victim and a friend were attacked in Green Lanes, Sutton Coldfield, just
after midnight yesterday after stopping for a cigarette while out for a drive.

As the men, aged 31 and 29, were chatting, three white men approached them
shouting racial abuse, police said.

The white men then punched and kicked the Asians to the floor before fleeing the
area.

The 31-year-old victim was taken to Good Hope Hospital with serious head
injuries, although police said they were not life-threatening.

Bruising

His friend suffered facial bruising in the attack.

Insp Bob Perkins, of Sutton Coldfield police, said it was a vicious and
unprovoked attack.

'We are appealing for any witnesses to come forward to help catch the men who
did this,' he said.

The three men sought by police are described as having local accents. Two are in
their 20s and 6ft, while the third was said to be in his 30s with a heavy build
and closely shorn brown hair.

A spokesman for West Midlands Police said: 'This appears to be an unprovoked
attack with possible racial overtones.'

Witnesses or anyone with information to contact them on 0121 322 6020.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHATTERED: The Plough is boarded up after a mob of up to 40 people
smashed the windows Picture by Paul Pester

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             June 26, 2001, Tuesday

EXTRA POLICE TO PATROL AFTER MOB ATTACK IN PUB TERROR

BYLINE: Samantha Lyster

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 357 words


Extra police officers have been drafted in to patrol the streets of a Black
Country town following an attack by a gang of youths on a local pub.

The gang of up to 40 white, black and Asian youths threw bricks at The Plough
pub in Hopkins Street, Tividale, Sandwell, on Sunday night and threw menu boards
and other missiles through its windows.

Detective Inspector Carl Southwick, of Sandwell North CID, said that police were
treating the incident as racially motivated.

The Plough's publican David Lomas suffered a neck wound which needed three
stitches after being struck by a brick during the incident.

Six other people were treated at the scene by paramedics for injuries from
flying glass and another was taken to Russell's Hall Hospital with more serious
injuries.

Almost all the windows in the property were smashed during the bombardment,
which lasted more than ten minutes.

According to witnesses, the attack happened at about 10pm as singer Eddie Black
was entertaining dozens of customers.

Mr Lomas, aged 50, said that terrified drinkers dived under tables for cover as
bricks and other missiles were hurled through the windows, showering customers
with shards of glass.

He said: 'The mob just came from nowhere. The damage they have caused is
unbelievable. Everyone was terrified.'

His wife, Denise, aged 45, said: 'The pub was packed and everyone was having a
good time when a brick suddenly came through the window.'

Police said yesterday they were investigating what triggered the attack and
speaking to witnesses and members of the local community.

Three people arrested for affray were released after caution and another two
people arrested for alleged criminal damage were bailed pending further
inquiries.

Maxie Hayles, chairman of the Sandwell Racial Harassment Unit, said he had not
been told about any recent race problems in the Tividale area.

A West Midlands Police spokesman said extra officers were on duty in the
Tividale area.

However, he said he could not say how long they would be on patrol as the police
were assessing the situation and taking it day by day.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 June 28, 2001

Woman flees in terror from attack by seagulls

SECTION: News: OTHER, Pg.20

LENGTH: 302 words


A WESTCOUNTRY grandmother was left needing hospital treatment for a jagged head
wound after she came under attack from a flock of birds.

The birds, herring gulls with vicious three-inch beaks, had already terrorised
children before turning on 61-year-old Jeana Moors as she walked her small dog,
Connor.

In a scene reminiscent of Alfred Hitchcock's classic film The Birds, Mrs Moors
was singled out by the gulls, who buffeted her with their four-foot span wings
and pecked at her head and face with their beaks.

Screaming in fear and with blood pouring down her face, soaking her clothes, she
tried to beat them off as she sought refuge in a shop.

There was no one about to help her on the street at 6.30am when the attack
began.

"I was left rooted at first to the spot when they swooped onto my head. Two
immediately swooped onto my head, screeching and flapping their wings and were
joined by a third.  I could see their outstretched feet and felt them biting
into my head. I tried to fend them off. After the first attack they clung onto
my head for a while and then let go.

"Then they swooped again as I got under the canopy of a local shop.

"But they kept swooping at me and using their sharp beaks to bite into my head.

"This went on for several minutes until I managed to run to a newsagents shop."

Mrs Moors, of New Street in the Colony area of Exmouth, found sanctuary in
Moores' newsagents in the Strand, Exmouth, after the attack at nearby Manor
Park.

Staff took her to hospital where doctors inserted stitches in her head wound.

"The gash was five inches long and there was blood running down my face and on
to my clothes by the time I got to the shop. Now when I go out I take a
three-feet piece of wood with me to fend off any more attacks if they should
come," she added.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 June 29, 2001

Man tells of terror attack

BYLINE: By Kevin Hurley

LENGTH: 249 words


DISABLED and elderly people living in Kirk Street on the Springfield Road
interface are enduring nightly attacks from Catholics - with little protection
from the RUC, it was claimed today.

Samuel Spence, a severe diabetic whose right leg has been amputated above the
knee and with half his left foot also amputated, was lucky to escape with his
life on Monday evening.

Around 8pm, wheelchair-bound Mr Spence was getting into his DLA car when a brick
thrown across the peace line smashed through his car windscreen.

The Belfast man is still shaken.

"I only moved into this house a few weeks ago and I'm now in fear of my life,"
he said.

"My back windows are boarded up, smashed by stone attacks. This is no way for
anyone to live."

"If a petrol bomb is thrown, I'll be dead. There's no way, in my condition, I
could get out in time."

Mr Spence said most people in his street were elderly or disabled and were
terrified by the constant onslaught of missiles.

He also launced a stinging attack on the RUC, saying: "I want to know why they
patrol this area when the stones are raining down on them from the other side."

Local community worker Alfie McCrory, of the Interface Community Project, echoed
Mr Spence's feelings.

"This was going on long before the recent violence in north Belfast erupted," Mr
McCrory said.

An RUC spokesperson said police had responded to numerous stoning incidents over
the past week, amid attacks from both communities.


LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 June 29, 2001

Couple's terror of Hoe gang attack
 CRIME: Plea to witnesses to help catch young mob members

BYLINE: Liz Parks

SECTION: News: CONSUMER, Pg.9

LENGTH: 401 words


A COUPLE today told of the terrifying moment a gang of 35 children viciously
attacked them after a quiet evening swim on the Hoe.

Both were repeatedly beaten and kicked by the mob, aged between 10 and 16,
leaving the woman unconscious in a pool of blood and the man with extensive
bruises and grazes.

The couple, who asked not to be named, are still in pain from their injuries and
severely traumatised by the attack and are urging witnesses to come forward to
help catch the gang.

As reported in yesterday's Herald, the 31 -year-old man and 41-year-old woman
were enjoying the warm, sunny evening on Monday and had gone for a dip in a
rockpool off Hoe Road.

At about 7.30pm as they were preparing to leave they were first shouted at by
one boy, who was then joined by about 25 braying youths.

The situation quickly go out of control and ended with the blonde haired
mother-of-two being dragged up to the street where she was kicked and had her
head stamped on.

Dragged away

"We were getting our stuff together and I looked up and there was one or two of
them and then there were 10 or 12," she said.

"They were like a pack of animals."

More boys and girls joined the mob, egging on the ring leaders as the couple
tried to hurry away.

One landed a punch on the back of the man's head and as he lay curled on the
floor a group began raining down blows and kicks on him.

The woman tried to help him but was dragged away by two boys.

They pulled her up a steep flight of stairs on to the street, near the permanent
ice cream stand opposite the colonnade in Hoe Road, where she hit her head on
the pavement, knocking her unconscious.

As she lay on the ground, witnesses saw a girl aged 15 or 16 kick her in the
face, then turning to go before coming back and stamping then jumping on the
woman's head. The savage attack has left her with a badly broken nose which will
need surgery, cuts and bruises to her face and injuries all over her body.

Her purse, ring and mobile phone were stolen during the incident.

The man said the gang suddenly stopped their attack and he raced up the flight
of stairs to find his partner lying unconscious in a pool of blood.

"I thought she was dead," he said. "There was a pool of blood beside her."

The gang's ringleader is described as a white male, aged 15 or 16 with short
brown or light brown hair.

Anyone with information should telephone the police on 08705 777 444.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                  July 2, 2001

Terrorist attacks rise by huge 40%

BYLINE: By Mary Fitzgerald

LENGTH: 484 words


THE number of paramilitary-style attacks has increased dramatically, with
figures up by almost 40% this year compared to the same period last year, it
emerged today.

Shootings and beatings have been reported in counties Antrim, Down, Tyrone,
Londonderry and Armagh over the past six months, with the number carried out in
March almost double that a year before.

According to RUC statistics, a total of 180 attacks have been carried out from
January 1 to June 26 this year, compared to 130 for the same period last year.

These include 95 shootings and 85 assaults.

RUC figures for gun attacks so far this year do not compare favourably with last
year's count. The number of shootings for all last year was 136, the highest
annual figure since 1975.

Loyalist paramilitaries have been blamed for 115 of the incidents this year,
with republicans responsible for 65.

The Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission today hit out at paramilitary
-style attacks, saying they were an "unacceptable violation of human rights".

Chief Commissioner, Professor Brice Dickson voiced his concern.

"Violence of any kind is abhorrent, but when lives are put at risk it is all the
more repugnant. The Commission is particularly appalled at the number of young
people who are the targets of 'punishment' attacks," he said.

Billy Hutchinson of the PUP called for a new system of justice respected by all,
in order to prevent paramilitary-style attacks.

"Punishment beatings are about revenge and not about justice. Until we get the
community to stop asking for attacks to be carried out we cannot hope for an end
to such beatings," he said.

A Sinn Fein spokesman described the rise in attacks as "disturbing".

"It is essential that those of us who are genuinely concerned about the cause of
these incidents address the root of the problem. Such attacks do not put an end
to criminal activity. The answer to the problem lies in addressing policing
difficulties," he said.

Figures for 'punishment beatings' also increased, with 41 beatings in loyalist
areas and 30 in republican areas from January 1 to May 30 this year. This
compares with 33 loyalist beatings and 22 republican beatings in the same period
last year.

The number of 'punishment' shootings has risen steadily in recent years after
falling to just three in 1995, when a total of 217 'punishment' beatings were
carried out the same year.

The grim toll:

2001:

Shootings January 1 - June 26, 2001

66 loyalist casualties

29 republican casualties

Total: 95

Assaults January 1 - June 26, 2001

49 loyalist casualties

36 republican casualties

Total: 85

2000

Shootings January 1 - June 26, 2000

39 loyalist casualties

23 republican casualties

Total: 62

Assaults January 1 - June 1, 2000

41 loyalist casualties

27 republican casualties

Total: 68


LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                              July 2, 2001, Monday

FAMILY OF ASIANS FLEES FIRE-BOMB TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: ROP; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 335 words


An Asian family-of-seven escaped a blazing house after it was fire-bombed in a
racially-motivated attack.

The family - the youngest was a child aged seven - was asleep in their home in
Accrington, Lancashire, when a burning substance was thrown through a downstairs
window in the early hours of Saturday.

The eldest son raised the alarm when he was awoken by the smell of smoke and the
family escaped. No-one was injured.

They will now have to be rehoused as their home, the site of a former newsagents
which has not traded for the past two years.

A Lancashire Police spokeswoman said: 'It appears the fire started when a
covering over the front window was forced and a burning substance was tossed
inside.

'The incident is being investigated as a racially aggravated arson attack.'

Superintendent David Mallaby, of Lancashire Police, said: 'This is an appalling
incident where an entire family could have been killed.

'The whole community should be united in helping us identify the people
responsible for putting children's lives at risk. No-one can condone this kind
of crime.'

Meanwhile, the leader of the BNP blamed the race problems in the Lancashire town
of Burnley on 'Asian thugs' who he claimed had spent years 'winding up' the
situation by attacking white people.

Nick Griffin said: 'There is fault on both sides of the community here, but
those treating people differently because of the colour of their skins are the
Asian thugs who for some years in places like Burnley have been winding this up
by attacking white people.'

He condemned the firebomb attack on the house in Accrington as 'appalling'.

'We care about all innocent people, Asian and white, who are being attacked, and
attacks like that have got to be condemned,' said Mr Griffin.

'But what has also got to be condemned is the fact that the media and the police
constantly focus on the situation when Asians are victims.

'When whites are the victims, they just don't seem to care.'

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              July 2, 2001, Monday

HOODED RAPISTS IN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Tony Deeley

SECTION: ROP; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 256 words


A TEENAGE Black Country woman was subjected to a terrifying rape ordeal at the
hands of two hooded men who threatened her male companion with a knife.

Police fearing the attackers could strike again today appealed for witnesses to
contact them as a matter of urgency.

The attack occurred in Oak Street, Wolverhampton near the Yew Tree public house
at about 3.20am on Saturday.

The woman, aged 18, was walking home from a night club accompanied by the man
when the two rapists struck.

One grabbed hold of the man and held a knife to his throat while the other
attacked the woman.

Police said today the man fought free from the clutches of his attacker and ran
for help but the terrified woman had no escape.

Both men raped the defenceless victim, leaving her bruised and bleeding and in a
deeply distressed state.

Despite her ordeal the woman managed to struggle home and report the offence.

She was today said to be extremely traumatised by the events and was being
interviewed by police specialists in such crimes.

Det Sgt Simon Davis of Wolverhampton CID today appealed for witnesses to the
incident or anyone with information to get in touch.

He said: 'Obviously the young victim is extremely traumatised by what happened.
I would appeal to any witnesses who saw what happened or who has any information
to contact us as a matter of urgency.

Both men were black and wore dark clothes and hooded jackets.

Anyone with information should phone the police at Wolverhampton on 01902
649000.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  July 5, 2001

Judge robbed in terror attack at home

BYLINE: Don Hunter

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 342 words


A LEADING judge was tied up and robbed in a terrifying attack as a burglar
forced his way into her home, police said yesterday.

Christian Bevington, 61, had just returned to her GBP 400,000 flat and was
taking her keys from her bag when the attacker pounced and bundled her through
the front door.

He then bound the crown court judge and ransacked the property before leaving
with money from a safe.

Miss Bevington eventually struggled free and raised the alarm.

Neighbours yesterday said she had been left deeply traumatised by the attack at
a Victorian mansion block in Hampstead, North London.

The raid, at 5.30pm on Tuesday, is thought to be unconnected to her judicial
role at Blackfriars Crown Court in central London, where she is hearing a trial
relating to possession of cocaine and heroin.

There are 25 large apartments in the five-storey building, which stands behind
wrought iron gates and is encircled by a 6ft hedge.

Other women in the block said the attack had made them fear for their safety.

Psychotherapist Naomi Troni said: 'It is a terrifying thing to happen to anyone,
but especially to a woman. She is a lovely lady, very popular with others in the
block.'

A spokesman from the Lord Chancellor's Department said: 'We can confirm that a
judge was the victim of an incident at their home involving a burglary.

'The judge was thankfully not seriously injured although naturally this was an
extremely traumatic experience.'

A Metropolitan Police spokesman said: 'Police can confirm they were called to an
aggravated burglary at the home of a woman in her 60s in Hampstead on July 3.'

Miss Bevington was educated at St James's School in West Malvern and studied law
at the London School of Economics.

She split from her husband, David Levitt OBE, in 1973. Their marriage was
dissolved after the couple had two sons and a daughter.

She became a Recorder, or junior judge, in 1984. Miss Bevington, who belongs to
the Reform Club, has been a circuit judge for the last three years.


LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SHAKEN: CHRISTIAN BEVINGTON

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  July 5, 2001

AIR HOSTESS IN ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Barry Roche

LENGTH: 178 words


    AN air hostess was the victim of a terrifying attack as she slept in her
hotel bedroom, cops revealed yesterday.

    The intruder tried to sexually attack the young woman -then seriously
assaulted her as she struggled to raise the alarm.

    He eventually fled as the distraught victim screamed for help.

    Asleep

    The incident happened at the newly-opened Great Southern Hotel at Cork
Airport.

    The English air hostess, in her 20s, was asleep in her room after arriving
on a British Airways flight. She heard someone breaking into the room -then the
man attempted to sexually assault her.

    As she shouted for help he tried to muffle her screams.

    He rushed from the building as staff came to the assistance of the woman,
who was badly shaken.

    After making a statement, the victim returned home yesterday.

    The woman was able to give a detailed description of her attacker.

    Cork detectives later arrested a local man in his late 20s.

    He was held for a number of hours before being released without charge. A
file will be sent to the DPP.


LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2001 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              July 6, 2001, Friday

AMBULANCE IN ATTACK TERROR;
 TRIO ASSAULT DRIVER IN ROAD

BYLINE: Sue Smith

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 227 words


AN ambulance driver was punched in the face when three men forced her to brake
to a halt near Bromsgrove.

The woman, aged 26, from Dudley, was driving the vehicle, used to transfer
patients, along the A491 between Lydiate Ash and the Fairfield Island when the
thugs struck.

Three men travelling in a red Ford Escort sped past, causing her to brake
sharply.

She stopped to look in the back of the vehicle to check equipment had not been
damaged and spotted the three men walking towards her.

Apologised

As one man apologised for his driving, a second went around the back of the
vehicle and tried to get inside but failed because the woman had locked the
doors.

She got into the vehicle, but of the gang grabbed her and pulled her out of the
driving seat and then punched her in the face before they roared away in the
Escort towards the Fairfield Island.

The incident happened on Wednesday, but police have only just released details.

Pc Chris Sewell, of West Mercia Police, said: 'It may be that these offenders
believed that this vehicle carried drugs.

'This is a busy road and we are certain that people would have driven past these
vehicles and may not have realised what was happening, but would ask anyone
having done so to telephone 01527 584888 as soon as possible.'

The men were white and aged between 18-20.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                              July 6, 2001, Friday

GLASS VICTIM TELLS OF ATTACK TERROR;
 MAN MIGHT LOSE EYE AFTER THUG HURLS BOTTLE IN HIS FACE

BYLINE: Hayley Cuthbertson VICTIM: Bryan McDade needed delicate eye surgery
after the attack.; Picture: JAMES BALFOUR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 325 words


A MAN might lose his right eye after an unprovoked attack in Coventry.

Detectives are appealing for witnesses to help them catch the thug who threw a
heavy glass bottle at 46-year-old Bryan McDade in Far Gosford Street on Monday
evening.

He needed eye surgery and is still in Coventry and Warwickshire Hospital's
specialist eye unit.

Mr McDade was sitting on a park bench in a grassy area close to the Flex gym and
Beer Engine pub.

He said: "I was on my way to see a friend and bought a can of Coke and sat down
to drink it. There were a couple of blokes sitting on the bench next to me
drinking cider."

A youth walked past and swore at the men, shouting abuse, and then flung a heavy
litre glass bottle at Mr McDade.

He said: "It hit me full in the face and then exploded. I didn't know what had
happened - there was blood pouring down my face and I could not see out of my
eye."

Mr McDade stumbled into the Beer Engine pub to wash his face, and then returned
home, where he realised for the first time that he had been very badly injured.

He has no vision in his right eye, and surgeons had to remove part of his
eyelid, iris and pupil in more than an hour of delicate surgery.

His doctors have warned him that he might lose the eye because infection has now
set in.

He also had five stitches to a deep cut across the bridge of his nose.

Det Con Sharon Bent, from Fletchamstead Highway CID, said: "The offender shouted
some abuse and then threw a bottle from a distance of about six feet away.

"It was a very nasty, totally unprovoked attack.

"We need anyone who may have seen this youth leaving the scene of the attack, or
who witnessed the attack, to come forward and help us find him."

The offender is described as white, aged 17 to 19, about 5ft 8in and slim.

He was wearing light-coloured tracksuit bottoms.

Anyone with information is asked to phone Fletchamstead CID on 024 7653 9067.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                  July 6, 2001

SLOP ROW MAN GETS SIX YEARS FOR ICE CREAM TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 54 words


The violent thug at the centre of the Barlinnie slopping-out row was today
jailed for six years for a knifepoint attack at an ice cream van.

Robert Napier, who is claiming £5000 compensation over the inhumane conditions
in the Glasgow jail, was convicted of robbing a woman and teenage girl.

FULL STORY - PAGE 7

LOAD-DATE: July 07, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 July 12, 2001

Pit bull attack terror for Max
 BITTEN: Rottweiler recovers after being mauled by three dogs

BYLINE: Jayne Freer Crime Reporter

SECTION: News: 999, Pg.21

LENGTH: 333 words


A ROTTWEILER is being nursed back to health by his distraught owner after he was
mauled by a pack of three dogs.

Five-year-old Max was attacked by the trio of snarling pit bull-type dogs in the
nature reserve in Deer Park Drive, Efford, a week ago.

The three dogs pounced on Max snapping at and biting him.

One witness tried to break up the fight with a baseball bat.

Today, Max's distraught owner Lynne Jones said: "I am very angry.

"Although he is a Rottweiler, Max is a big baby. He did not fight back at all
and he is much bigger than them.

"If it had been a child or a smaller dog, it would have killed them."

Mrs Jones, aged 48, of California Gardens, added: "It happened all of a sudden.
The dogs just attacked my dog and they did not let go of him for 15 minutes.

"A couple of people heard all the screaming and one lady came out with a
baseball bat.

"The owner asked if anyone had a lighter, I think he was going to try and burn
the dogs to stop them. My dog was screaming."

Muzzled

Mrs Jones says she now wants to see the dogs muzzled in public, if not
destroyed.

The attack happened on Saturday, June 30, at about 10.30am.

Max was taken to the vets where he had staples put in neck wounds and is now on
a course of antibiotics for an infection.

Mrs Jones said: "He was in shock and very agitated."

Police officers have launched an investigation into the incident and have
appealed for witnesses to come forward. Police spokesman Pc Stuart Elford said:
"Lengthy details have been taken from Mrs Jones and initial inquiries reveal two
witnesses and a suggestion as to the name of the owner.

"An investigation is continuing into an alleged offence under the Dangerous Dogs
Act."

Police have given Mrs Jones advice on possible action she could take through the
civil courts.

Any witnesses are urged to contact the police on 08705 777444, quoting log
number 948/7 July.

RECOVERING: Injured rottweiler Max with his owner Lynne Jones Picture Teri Cox
EL07530

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                     Pulse

                                 July 14, 2001

I still suffer flashbacks, panic and terror after axe attack

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 600 words


Dr Mark Saunders, who suffered serious head injuries in an axe attack at his
surgery, has spoken for the first time about his struggle to recover from his
ordeal. His attacker has been detained indefinitely in a secure hospital.

Earlier this year I was attacked in my surgery by a 40-year-old paranoid
schizophrenic wielding an axe. I wrestled the axe from her but only after
receiving a head injury which required sutures.

How has the attack affected me? Immediately afterwards I took a couple of weeks
off work. My initial emotion was euphoria to be alive. I was glad I had taken
self-defence courses. But then I started to feel angry. Surely there were
warning signs that should have been picked up to prevent this attack?

Last year the woman had been sectioned. Since release from her section she had
not been seen by anyone, even though it turned out she had a gun licence! She
had not been receiving her repeat prescriptions.

She had gone AWOL from her community psychiatric nurse for three months. What
had the psychiatric services been doing? Also, the previous year the forensic
psychiatrist had said the woman was a danger to society and should remain
detained, but the social workers had disagreed.

I found I was blaming everyone except myself and the attacker.

The support I received from my family, friends and colleagues helped to
stabilise me, with a good Aussie redhead, 'Sheila Shiraz', as a liquid
supplement. Unfortunately I received very little official support, except the
health authority's offer of counselling via occupational health.

My defence body, the MDDUS, once had an advice line for personal injury and a
claim form, but this was disbanded a few years ago as apparently no one used it.

The BMA sent me articles about zero tolerance but offered no other practical
help and soon ceased to correspond with me.

The Government recently announced a formal 'red card' scheme allowing hospitals
to refuse to treat violent patients but has failed to come up with a similar
scheme for primary care. Does this mean we are second- class workers whose
rights and protection are not as important?

People say I was in the wrong place at the wrong time. If this was correct it
would be easier to forget, but the fact is I was in the right place at the right
time. It was an attack aimed at a doctor, at his place of work, and could have
been predicted if certain cues had been picked up.

Gradually my anger has abated somewhat and has been replaced by despair that
violence against doctors is still not taken seriously enough. I feel especially
disillusioned at the attitude of our official bodies to GP safety. Do they
really comprehend what it is like at the grassroots of general practice? Do they
understand that it has altered out of all recognition?

I now feel so uncomfortable in the building that I have decided to leave this
practice and start afresh. I experience flashbacks when the surgery doors open
or when someone comes in who looks similar to the woman who attacked me.

For a split second I feel panic and terror and the hairs on the back of my neck
rise. I have found it very difficult to carry out surgeries in my room and at
present use my partner's room. I spend the bare minimum of time in the building
instead of mixing with the staff at breaks. I experience nightmares and
insomnia.

From now on I've decided to work to live, not live to work (as I did before) and
early retirement has definitely now entered my thoughts. I would get out
tomorrow if I could, and I am certainly looking to retire at 50.




LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                       Copyright 2001 CMP Information Ltd

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 July 18, 2001

Outback attack woman's terror

SECTION: News: OTHER, Pg.16

LENGTH: 322 words


THE girlfriend of a British tourist feared to have been shot dead during an
ambush in the Australian outback yesterday said she felt lucky to be alive.

Joanne Lees, 27, and Peter Falconio, 28, were held up by a mystery gunman as
they travelled in their camper van on a desert highway 175 miles north of Alice
Springs.

Shortly after being flagged down by the man on the Stuart Highway in the
desolate area of the Northern Territory, Miss Lees heard what she thought was a
gunshot.

She was then tied up by the man and thrown into the back of a van, but managed
to escape into the bush where she spent several hours hiding from the gunman
before raising the alarm.

But Mr Falconio, of Hepworth, near Huddersfield, West Yorkshire, disappeared,
and as police mounted a search for him using Aboriginal trackers, they confirmed
that traces of human blood had been found at the scene.

In her first interview since the attack, Miss Lees said: "Everyone can use their
imagination about what it was like for me that night, but I was determined to
escape and I feel very lucky to survive."

Former travel agent Miss Lees, from Huddersfield, who has been under police
guard since the shooting, said: "I honestly do not believe this man would have
let me go. He really needs to be captured. I do not think he would hesitate to
do it again."

A truck driver who came across Miss Lees, Rodney Adams, said: "What we found out
there you would have trouble believing, even if you had seen her like we did.

"I never want to see anything like that again. She was in an appalling state."

He said she threw her arms around him and asked where her boyfriend was.

"She sobbed, 'I want my mum'," said Mr Adams.

Despite searches by police, volunteers and Aborigine trackers, nothing had been
found in the 900,000 kilometre expanse.

But local police said a response to an e-fit of the gunman had been "excellent",
and searches continued.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 July 19, 2001

MY TERROR AS GANG ATTACKED;
 Festival man punched by 15

BYLINE: CHRIS THORNE

SECTION: News, Pg.12

LENGTH: 303 words


A MAN has told of his terror as he was punched and kicked by a gang of 15 thugs
as he partied at the Bristol Community Festival.

Andi Bannerman, aged 29, from Clevedon, ended up in hospital after the attack.

Mr Bannerman attended the festival with a group of friends, some of whom took
their young children along.

But violence erupted when a gang of rowdy teenagers bumped into one of the
children, sending them sprawling into the dance crowd.

When the young boy's mother told gang members to be more careful, her drink was
punched out of her hand.

And when Mr Bannerman rushed to pull her away trouble flared.

He said: "I was leading my friend away telling her to leave it, but one of the
gang started swearing at me and as I turned my back he punched me hard in the
back of the head.

"Then all hell broke loose and they all seemed to pile in. I told my friend to
run for it and we rushed towards the exit."

The gang landed a number of heavy blows on the back of his head before he
managed to run to safety. The attack happened next to the dance arena at about
7pm on Saturday. Onlookers watched in terror as the gang beat up Mr Bannerman
then disappeared into the crowd of 40,000.

Mr Bannerman and his friends scooped up the children and left straight away.

But on the way back to Clevedon he started to complain of having a headache and
began vomiting. His friends rushed him to Weston-superMare's General Hospital.

Mr Bannerman said: "They kept me in for two nights observation to make sure I
was okay.

"I was scared. The festival should be a safe place, where everyone comes
together for fun and music. Not a place where you might get your head kicked
in."

Police spokesman Darren Bane said: "We are investigating the alleged assault."

c. thorne@bepp. co. uk

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 July 19, 2001

GANG VICTIM TELLS OF TERROR ATTACK;
 Hospital stay after festival beating

BYLINE: CHRIS THORNE

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 310 words


A CLEVEDON man has told of his terror after he was punched and kicked by a 15
-strong gang of thugs as he partied at the Bristol Community Festival.

Andi Bannerman, aged 29, ended up in hospital after the attack on Saturday.

Mr Bannerman attended the festival with a group of friends, some with their
young children.

But violence erupted at about 7pm when the gang of rowdy teenagers bumped into
one of the children, sending them sprawling into the dance crowd.

When the boy's mother told gang members to be more careful, her drink was
punched out of her hand.

And when Mr Bannerman rushed to pull her away, trouble flared.

He said: "I was leading my friend away but one of the gang started swearing at
me, and as I turned my back, he punched me hard on the back of the head.

"Then all hell broke loose and they all seemed to pile in. I told my friend to
run for it and we rushed towards the exit."

The gang landed a number of heavy blows on the back of his head before he
managed to run to safety.

Onlookers watched in terror as the gang beat up Mr Bannerman then disappeared
into the 40,000strong crowd.

Mr Bannerman and his friends scooped up the children and left immediately.

But on the way back to Clevedon he started to complain of having a headache and
began vomiting.

His friends took him to Westonsuper-Mare's General Hospital and at first doctors
feared he had a broken jaw.

Mr Bannerman said: "They made me undergo all sorts of tests, including X-rays
and a brain scan. They kept me in for two nights to make sure I was okay. I was
scared."

"The festival should be a safe place, where everyone comes together for fun and
music, not a place where you might get your head kicked in."

Anyone with information about the attack should call Crimestoppers on 0800
555111.

c. doyle@bepp. co. uk

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            July 19, 2001, Thursday

Palestinians attacked by settler terror cell

BYLINE: By Alan Philps

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 314 words

JEWISH settlers have formed a terrorist cell in the West Bank which has carried
out at least three attacks on Palestinians.

Confirmation of the existence of the vigilantes came from Avi Dichter, the head
of Israel's domestic security service. He denied reports that there was a
large-scale underground terrorist network but said there was one cell operating
near the Palestinian town of Halhoul, near Hebron.

The group is understood to have killed one Palestinian and injured three on June
14 but other operations have been unsuccessful.

The June 14 attack was carried out in the name of a settler group called
Shalhevet-Gilad, combining the names of a Jewish baby girl shot by a Palestinian
sniper in Hebron and a settlement security chief ambushed near Nablus in May.

Mr Dichter was questioned by the parliament's foreign affairs and defence
committee after a van belonging to a militant settler leader, Noam Federman,
blew up.

Mr Federman initially said Palestinians tried to kill him but there was no claim
of responsibility and police found that the explosives were not of the type
normally used by Palestinian militants.

Mr Dichter said a small amount of ammunition and some hand grenades blew up
because the van was left too long in the sun. He said it was not a "strategic
quantity" of explosives suitable for a terrorist campaign.

More than 30 Jewish settlers have been killed since the outbreak of the
Palestinian uprising in September, six of them during the past month of
so-called ceasefire.

In response, settlers have burned Palestinian fields, destroyed houses and
blocked roads.

Security experts have been surprised that there has not been more vigilantism.
In the 1980s Jewish terrorists attacked Palestinian leaders and five years ago a
right-wing extremist assassinated the then prime minister, Yitzhak Rabin.
[PS]News: [ES]

International:

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 July 19, 2001

Horse in terror attack put down

SECTION: News, Pg.26

LENGTH: 82 words


HORSE owners are being warned to stay alert after three attacks on animals in
four days in North Somerset.

A five-week-old pony was put down after it was found with its legs bound
together and injuries to its body at a barn in Dundry. The attack took place
overnight on July 6.

The following night the pony's mother had her mane cut.

And on July 10, a horse in nearby Butcombe, was found with a deep cut to its
upper lip which is thought to have been caused by a knife.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 July 20, 2001

RUC station comes under terror attack

BYLINE: By Claire Regan:cregan@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 330 words


POLICE were today investigating reports of a small explosion and shots being
fired at Castlewellan RUC station.

The area surrounding the Co Down town's station was being examined today after
reports that an explosive device went off at around 11pm yesterday.

There was no-one in the station at the time of the apparent attack but it is
believed the incident was caught on camera.

A police spokesman confirmed there were no injuries or damage caused.

It is believed a device was thrown from the back seat passenger window of a car
as it drove past the station and then sped off in the direction of Kilcoo.

An explosion was heard about ten seconds later, although RUC sources said they
could not rule out the blast being caused by a large firework.

Local SDLP councillor Eamonn O'Neill, who lives beside the police station,
reported hearing five or six gunshots before a "small but sharp" explosion.

He said: "This is a very worrying development and the overall situation in south
Down appears to be heading to the extremes.

"This kind of attack is designed to kill, maim or injure and the people who
carried this out are nothing but murderous fascists acting against the express
wishes of the people."

A police spokesman said the incident could not be confirmed until after
examination of the scene had been completed today.

He added that they were not yet sure of the nature of the explosive device.

This is the second time Castlewellan RUC station has come under attack in the
past year.

Last November, Constable David Fegan, a 42-year-old married man from
Ballynahinch, lost a leg and part of his hand when the bomb detonated as he
opened the gates of the police station.

His colleague suffered shock but escaped serious injury.

The Continuity IRA later claimed responsibility for planting a pipe bomb under a
traffic cone.  Initial indications that the device was similar to that used by
loyalists turned out to be wrong.


LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 23, 2001, Monday

NURSES IN TERROR AFTER LVF ATTACK

BYLINE: Jilly Beattie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 270 words

HIGHLIGHT: PRESSURE: Royal Victoria


A VICIOUS attack by loyalists on nurses could force a A&E department to close,
it was warned last night.

Members of terror group the LVF are being blamed for assaulting two members of
staff and threatening others at Belfast's Royal Victoria Hospital.

Patricia McKeown, of health union Unison, said emergency services could be
withdrawn after the violence on Saturday morning.

She said: "The difficulty is that between staff who were injured, staff who are
traumatised and those who are afraid to be in work tonight, we are under severe
strain to keep the A&E department open."

A hospital source told The Mirror: "I understand a number of people arrived at
the hospital to find out how a friend who had being cared for in the A&E
department was doing. They then assaulted staff and made threats.

"Doctors and nurses at the Royal have worked throughout the Troubles to take
care of people.

"They are not interested in religion or politics."

A spokeswoman for the Royal Hospitals said: "Senior management at the hospital
have condemned the threats from alleged loyalist paramilitaries to staff.

"Medical director Dr Ian Carson, reacted to a series of incidents at the
hospital early on Saturday morning when staff were physically assaulted, had
their lives threatened and were spat upon."

Dr Carson added: "It is intolerable that people purporting to have interests in
patients receiving crucial care, should subject staff to physical and verbal
abuse and then threaten their lives."

Security video film is being studied by RUC officers to see whether a criminal
case can be taken.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 24, 2001, Tuesday

MAN'S TEEN TERROR;
 LIVING IN FEAR OF ATTACK TERRIFIED: Alan Powell was kicked by a girl and four
boys aged between 11 and 14

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 267 words


A CEREBRAL palsy victim who was attacked by youths as young as 11 has been left
too frightened to leave his home, a friend said today.

Alan Powell, aged 32, was kicked by a girl and four boys aged between 11 and 14
as he went to buy tissues at his local shop.

Mr Powell, described by his friend as having a heart of gold, was kicked four
times as he rode in his electric wheelchair.

The friend, who did not wish to be named, said: 'They first asked him for
cigarettes and he refused because he doesn't smoke.

'They then told him to give them his money and then took it upon themselves to
kick him in the back and chased him up the street as he tried to get away.'

Abuse

Mr Powell's friend said local youths regularly picked on people with
disabilities.

She added: 'I keep saying to Alan the youths are the ones with the problem, not
you.

'Whenever he leaves the house he gets abuse of some kind, whether his support
worker is with him or not.

'All Alan wants to do is live a normal life like everyone else but these people
won't let him. Alan is amazing, he has a heart of gold and is one of the nicest
people you could meet.'

The attack has left Mr Powell shaken and frightened to leave his home in the
Raby Gardens area of Hartlepool.

He used to enjoy trips to the shops, pub and bookmaker in his wheelchair but now
will not go out unaccompanied.

The friend added: 'That's not right because he was always able to lead his own
life and they have taken away his right to do what he wants.'

Cleveland Police have appealed for witnesses to the attack.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 24, 2001, Tuesday

HOSPITAL: WE'LL BEAT TERRORISTS;
 VOW AFTER LVF ATTACK 6 STAFF

BYLINE: Ryan Parry

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 293 words

HIGHLIGHT: EMERGENCY: Patricia McKeown


NEW safety measures to protect hospital staff from paramilitary attacks were
agreed last night.

Management and unions at Belfast's Royal Victoria Hospital held emergency talks
with a top RUC officer after six staff were injured by a gang claiming to be
from the LVF.

Patricia McKeown of Unison said after the meeting: "We are hoping to hear on
Friday the outcome that there have been a range of measures put in place.

"This was a very necessary meeting but it shouldn't have had to happen just
because of my intervention, hopefully lessons have now been learned."

Ms McKeown called for police patrols on the hospital grounds to be stepped up
and expressed frustration that no one was arrested for the attack.

Detectives investigating the incident on Saturday morning in the casualty
department were last night studying video footage from inside the hospital.

An RUC spokeswoman said: "The investigating team are anxious that staff come
forward for interview to help further the investigation."

One of the victims said: "I was behind the desk in casualty, a man came up and
showed me that under his coat he was wearing a bullet-proof vest.

"He said: 'You don't know who you're dealing with here'.

"I said: 'I'm only doing my job, I'm not looking any hassle'.

"He said: 'LVF - you will be dead within two weeks'."

Sinn Fein President Gerry Adams urged the LVF to withdraw the threat against
staff.

RUC Chief Inspector Russell Martin last night pledged police would work to
ensure staff were safe.

He said: "The hospital staff were given an assurance that the police would
continue to give regular attention to the casualty department and if police
assistance was required they would respond appropriately."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                                 July 25, 2001

Newlyweds' terror during rebel attack

SECTION: War: WEAPONS, Pg.04

LENGTH: 164 words


TWO honeymooning British couples told last night how they were caught up in a
terrifying rebel mortar and gunfire attack on Sri Lanka's main airport.

Brothers Jimmy and Steven Bellieni and their wives, whom they married while on
holiday in the country, were forced to dodge gunfire as they tried to escape the
battle.

Jimmy Bellieni (36), of London, saw his romantic trip end in horror as he became
separated from his pregnant wife, Candace, and two young for 12 hours in the
mayhem.

They were among 47 Britons forced to flee the airport yesterday after nine Tamil
Tiger rebels attacked aircraft and buildings.

Tourists were later evacuated to hotels in the capital Colombo.

Steven Bellieni's wife, Martina, said: "It was terrifying. Afterwards we all
just hugged each other and cried."

Officials said that all nine guerillas were killed, along with five military
personnel.

The rebels damaged eight military and five passenger aircraft, forcing the
airport to close.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       July 25, 2001, Wednesday Edition 1

Protesters Tell Of Terror Over Riot Police Attacks

BYLINE: Evening Chronicle

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 568 words


   A terrified union chief today told how he was left bloodied and battered
after being attacked by police during the riots in Genoa.

Nurse Sid Davidson was hit by a tear gas canister as Italian police charged an
anti-capitalist march at the G8 summit in Italy.

Sid, 44, who works for North Tyneside Health Authority, was hit on the head when
riot police fired tear gas into the crowd three times.

The protester, of Slaley, near Hexham, was with a group of North East officials
from public services union Unison who were beaten and gassed in the weekend orgy
of violence as rioters clashed with police.

He said: "All of a sudden 200 riot police charged at the march and split it into
two. We were tear gassed, then driven back along the route and tear gassed
again.

"We were tear gassed a third time and I was hit. A lot of people were assaulted
and beaten. We were there for a peaceful march and weren't part of the
violence."

Fellow protesters Yunus Bakhsh, Alan Newham, Tony Pierre and Clare Williams, who
work for Newcastle and North Tyneside Health Authority, also claimed they were
the victims of police brutality.

Yunus, a member of the national executive council of Unison, said: "Our
intention was to take part in a peaceful protest.

"But news came through that police had blocked the official route of the
demonstration as there was trouble. We moved from the flashpoint and followed
the re-routed march up some stairs.

"But there were 50 to 60 police at the top, so we put our hands up to say we
were not violent. Then one of the group was hit on the head with a truncheon and
a volley of tear gas came at us. We were in a narrow confined area. Your throat
closes, your eyes run and skin burns. Our group got separated and I saw some
people being hit on the head with gas canisters.

"There were a minority of people causing trouble in Genoa but nothing could
justify the police attacking us with tear gas."

One rioter was shot dead by an Italian police officer and hundreds injured
during demonstrations which were hijacked by anarchists.

Seven Britons were in custody in Genoa yesterday as the aftermath of the clashes
rumbled on.

Yunus: said: "There were 250,000 to 300,000 people in Genoa who were peaceful
but there was a concentration on the violence.

"It was brutal beyond belief. Our party was extremely shocked by the treatment
we received and we are angry that there seems an attempt to portray all the
people there as troublemakers."

Last September Yunus was caught in similar scenes in the Czech capital Prague
when 5,000 protesters demonstrated against the World Bank and the International
Monetary Fund.

At least 40 people were injured during running battles with police in the city's
historic Wenceslas Square. Yunus said police in Prague over-reacted but said the
reaction in Genoa was worse.

He said: "It was an unprovoked attack on a peaceful demonstration.

"We have a legitimate right to protest about poverty, pollution and the
environment and I will continue to exercise that right."

A 50-strong group from the Jubilee Campaign also travelled from the North East
to Genoa.

Pat Devlin, spokesman for the organisation, which calls for debt relief for the
poorest countries in the world, said: "We decided not to go on the march for
safety reasons.

"We were aware of the violence around us but none of our members were caught in
the fighting."

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 July 25, 2001

Britons caught in holiday airport terrorist attack

SECTION: News: OTHER, Pg.16

LENGTH: 432 words


Laura Elston

TWO honeymooning British couples told yesterday how they were caught up in a
terrifying rebel mortar and gunfire attack on Sri Lanka's main airport.

Brothers Jimmy and Steven Bellieni and their wives, whom they married while on
holiday in the country, were forced to dodge gunfire as they tried to escape the
ferocious battle.

Jimmy Bellieni, from Holland Park, London, saw his romantic trip end in horror
as he became separated from his pregnant wife and two young daughters for 12
hours in the mayhem.

Mr Bellieni was one of 47 Britons forced to flee the airport yesterday after
Tamil Tiger rebels attacked aircraft and buildings.

Holidaymakers trapped in the pre-dawn assault ran into the line of fire before
scrambling into a ditch to shelter from the separatists.

Petrified tourists were later evacuated to hotels in the capital Colombo.

Mr Bellieni, 36, married pregnant bride 36-year-old Candace on the trip, while
his brother Steven, 34, tied the knot with long-term girlfriend Martina, 28,
during the double-wedding family holiday.

Martina said the airport descended into chaos when the attack began, with people
running around screaming.

She said airport staff failed to evacuate the building and terrified tourists
were forced out into the open and into the line of fire by the military.

"They came along and put us in a tunnel under the airport. The attacks were
going off over our heads. We knew we needed to get out," she said.

"But then the military started shouting 'Run, run, go for cover'. They sent us
in the direction the bullets were coming from.

"People were diving on the floor. There was no cover apart from an old cafe bar.
We were running out in the open air. It was about 3am in the morning and pitch
black."

The newly -weds, who had travelled to the country with around 15 friends and
relatives, finally managed to escape during a lull in the gunfire.

Carpenter Jimmy Bellieni, who has now been reunited with his family, described
how he saw aircraft on fire and how the ordeal was "like something out of
Sarajevo".

After six hours of explosions, automatic weapons fire and pistol shots at the
airport yesterday, police said all nine guerrillas were dead, and three had
blown themselves up. Five military personnel also died in the airport battle.

Rebels damaged five civilian planes and eight military aircraft at an adjoining
base.

Flights were last night due to restart from the airport.

The Foreign Office is currently advising those travelling to the country to
consider postponing their visits for the time being.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            July 26, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST PLANNED TOURIST ATTACKS

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 227 words


A BASQUE woman terrorist who blew herself up by accident at a Costa beach resort
near Alicante was plotting to attack tourist targets, the Spanish government has
revealed.

Olaya Castresana, aged 22, was handling an estimated 22 pounds of dynamite when
it exploded in a beachfront apartment just outside the resort town of
Torrevieja, obliterating her body, said Interior Minister Mariano Rajoy.

He said the Eta commando unit's target or targets was not clear. 'This is the
classic campaign of attacks against tourist interests in order to generate
chaos,' Rajoy said.

Injured

Eight people in the housing development where the apartment was located were
slightly injured by flying debris. Five of them were children. Nine other
apartments were damaged.

A male colleague of Castresana identified as Anarz Oyarzabal, aged 24, fled
after the explosion and police have issued a nationwide alert for him.

Rajoy said the apartment was owned by Oyarzabal's parents. Police who searched
it found four pounds of explosives and Castresana's identity papers.

They said she and Oyarzabal had a history of street violence linked to Eta and
usually lived in the Basque city of San Sebastian.

Eta is fighting for a separate Basque homeland encompassing parts of northern
Spain and southern France. It has killed more than 800 people since 1968.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            July 26, 2001, Thursday

MUM-TO-BE CAR TERROR;
 POLICE PLEA OVER ATTACK BY ROAD RAGE THUG

BYLINE: Caroline Waterston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 400 words


A VICIOUS thug assaulted a pregnant woman in a brutal road-rage attack.

The shocking incident happened just as the heavily-pregnant woman climbed out of
her car at her local doctor's surgery to go for a check-up.

Stunned patients and reception staff watched in horror as the man grabbed the
31-year-old woman by the throat and tried to punch her in the stomach.

It was only when the frightened woman screamed that she was eight months
pregnant that her attacker let her go and fled the scene.

Yesterday, Superintendent David Barr of Strathclyde Police said: "This would
obviously be a frightening attack for anyone.

"But the fact that this woman was pregnant must have made it terrifying for
her."

The incident happened after the woman - who works in the clothing industry and
does not want to be named - drove through the Knights-wood area of Glasgow in
her blue Vauxhall Cavalier.

As she drove along Danes Drive, a silver Mercedes car tried to pull out in front
of her and she beeped her horn.

The driver - who was in his late 40s or 50s, wore glasses and was smartly
dressed in a shirt and trousers - started shouting at her through his window.

The woman, who is from the city's West End, thought nothing more of the incident
and carried on driving to the surgery in Pennan Place.

But, unknown to her, the angry motorist followed her for at least five minutes
and waited until she got out of her car before he carried out his vicious
assault.

The attacker - described as 5ft 10ins tall and of stocky build with a pale
complexion - then jumped in his car and drove away at high speed.

Superintendent Barr added: "You would have thought that, after such a minor
incident, the driver would have calmed down very quickly.

"But this man followed her for more than five minutes, often separated by other
cars.

"He was very determined and the only thing that stopped him was that the woman
said she was pregnant."This was a broad-daylight attack and I would appeal to
anyone who saw anything to come forward. Even if we had the model or the
registration of the car it would be a big help.

"Somebody must have seen something. Patients waiting for their appointment or
people picking up a relative must have seen the man."

The distressed woman managed to struggle into the doctor's surgery where she had
a check-up and was given the all-clear.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 27, 2001, Friday

CATALOGUE OF TERROR ATTACKS n CRIME SITES: A map shows some of the raid
locations

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28,29

LENGTH: 471 words


Friday, July 6 TWO black men with scarves to hide their faces burst into Brown's
Bookmakers, on Taysfield Road, Bartley Green. They threatened staff with a
handgun before raiding the tills.

Tuesday, July 10 A 60-year-old postmaster was left with a fractured skull after
being pistolwhipped by one of the robbers who burst into the sub-Post Office in
Brades Road, Oldbury. Three masked men stormed the shop at about 5pm wielding a
single-barrelled shotgun and a sledgehammer. Police believe the same gang then
targeted the Stars News shop and sub post office at Castle Road West at 9am.

Wednesday, July 11 TWO masked black men were forced to flee after a bungled
armed robbery at a post office in Anderton Road, Sparkbrook, Birmingham. The
raiders burst at 2pm in waving a handgun, but fled empty-handed.

Thursday, July 12 FOUR black men with their faces covered burst into Parker's
Bookmakers in Witton Road, Aston, at about 5.45pm. One of the men, brandishing a
handgun, forced staff to hand over about pounds 500 before the gang, all aged
about 20 and dressed in dark clothing, fled. Less than 30 minutes later, another
group of about four black men with similar descriptions ran into William Hill's
in Washwood Heath Road, Saltley and stole more than pounds 500.

Sunday, July 15 TWO black men, with their faces covered by scarves, burst into
the Acocks Green branch of bookmakers' Ladbrokes, in Warwick Road and threatened
staff with a handgun. Theyescaped with a quantity of cash.

Friday, July 20 TWO young black men burst into Ladbrokes bookmakers on Holyhead
Road, Handsworth, at about 10.20am and threatened staff with a handgun before
escaping with cash. Then, at 12.12pm the post office in Church Vale was targeted
by five black men, who were stopped when the door was locked by staff. At
12.35pm three men ran into Acfold Road Post Office and one fired a blank round
from a pistol at a customer, but they fled empty handed.Just five minutes later
an attempt to raid John Brown Bookmakers' in Westminster Road was thwarted when
staff activated the security shutters. The same red Nissan Almeira car was used
in all four jobs.

Wednesday, July 25 THREE black men burst into Global Travel, on Rookery Road,
Handsworth, at about 2pm and threatened staff with a handgun before escaping
with cash. At about 5.35pm three masked raiders burst into Coral Bookmakers in
Lozells Road, Lozells less than two miles away. Two of the gang were brandishing
handguns. All three black men, wearing dark clothing , escaped with a
substantial amount of cash. Earlier in the day, three masked men, armed with a
handgun, escaped with pounds 22,000 after a hold-up at the post office in the
Swan Shopping Centre, Yardley. They escaped in a Vauxhall Vectra parked nearby
and possibly driven by an accomplice.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                                 July 27, 2001

Couple's terror in attack on airport

BYLINE: By Phil Harrison, Pharrison@Derbytelegraph.Co.Uk

SECTION: Crime: TERRORISM, Pg.03

LENGTH: 448 words


A DERBY couple have described their terror and "blind panic" after being caught
up in a terrorist attack while on holiday in Sri Lanka.

Hundreds of British tourists were left fearing for their lives on Tuesday
morning after Tamil Tiger guerrillas launched a ferocious mortar assault on
Bandaranaike Airport.

Salesman Tony Howitt (54), of Cowsley Road, Chaddesden, was with his partner Liz
Turner among a group of 50 tourists on board the last bus allowed into the
under-fire airport terminal.

As they were about to get off the bus, officials ordered the driver to turn
around and take the tourists to safety as explosions and mortars rained down
nearby.

Mr Howitt and Ms Turner had just enjoyed the holiday of a lifetime after jetting
out to the troubled island on July 10.

But it was as they were about to return home that their dream holiday turned
into a nightmare.

Mr Howitt said: "We feared for our lives. It was pitch black and we didn't have
a clue what was happening.

"I noticed something was wrong as we drove into the airport because we could see
something burning and people were running all over the place in a blind panic -
it was absolute pandemonium.

"We could hear bullets and mortars flying around and, as we were leaving, we
could see people behind just fleeing for their lives in terror - we were lucky
that we never actually got off the bus."

Ms Turner (47) added: "I was petrified, I've never been in a situation like that
before. All you can think about is your family and you just want to get out of
there."

Once clear of the airport, the couple's coach was directed to the relative
safety of a nearby hotel where they remained for two hours before being moved to
another hotel back in the capital Colombo.

They eventually arrived home at Heathrow Airport in the early hours of yesterday
morning.

Despite their ordeal, the couple are adamant they would return to the island for
another holiday in the future.

Mr Howitt said: "It's an incredibly beautiful place - it's such a shame that our
holiday had to end this way.

"We knew about the differences between the Sri Lankan government and the Tamils.
We took the risk of going like hundreds of others - but at the time it was a
minimal risk."

The attack came on the anniversary of riots in 1983 when mobs of Sri Lanka's
Sinhalese majority killed between 2,000- 3,000 of the minority Tamils.

That sparked an 18-year-old war between the government and the Liberation Tigers
of Tamil Eelam who are battling for a separate Tamil state.

Thirteen rebels and seven military personnel were killed in Tuesday's attack and
15 civilians were wounded.

- Dream destination turns into war zone - Page 10

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 July 27, 2001

ETA steps up terror attacks on tourists

SECTION: News, Pg.12

LENGTH: 151 words


SPANISH terrorist group ETA spent three decades targeting military and political
personnel in its battle for an independent Basque state before turning its fire
on tourists.

The separatist group raised the stakes in its terrifying campaign after bombing
Reus Airport, near Barcelona, leaving 17 British holidaymakers injured in July,
1996.

Since then there has been a steady, ominous stream of threats, near-misses and
killings, with Britons now being urged to be cautious when they travel.

While those tourists unable to travel from Malaga because of the bomb scare may
curse their luck, those with knowledge of previous ETA attacks may beg to
differ.

The group has now claimed responsibility for all 34 of the killings attributed
to it since ending a 14-month-old ceasefire in January 2000.

Founded in 1959, the group is believed to have killed 800 people since its
inception.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 July 28, 2001

Night out ended in a terror attack
 CRIME: Dockyard worker beaten unconscious in city centre

BYLINE: Jayne Freer Crime Reporter

SECTION: News: 999, Pg.13

LENGTH: 419 words


A NIGHT out with friends left Dean Thorne with a catalogue of horrific injuries
after he was beaten by thugs.

So vicious was the assault that he suffered a broken jaw, smashed nose, three
broken ribs and horrendous bruising and swelling all over his body.

The attack left him in hospital for five days, during which he underwent an
operation to wire his jaw.

Dean can now only eat soup or baby food as elastic loops keep his jaw in place
until it mends.

Speaking from his Laira home, Dean, aged 34, said: "It is very frustrating. They
have kicked all the motivation and everything out of me."

The gang of around five pounced on Dean as he walked through the bus station at
about 2.10am on July 6, after a night out with friends.

Dean said: "All I really remember is going to Bretonside bus station and
suddenly noticing to my left this guy's face, almost like tunnel vision.

"There was a blow to my nose. It was an instant broken nose.

"It was so quick. I remember losing my rag and grabbing his jumper telling them
to back off."

But the assault continued and Dean was then knocked to the ground and as he laid
injured on the floor the blows continued to rain down on him.

"I remember seeing feet coming towards my face and being kicked in the head at
least once or twice.

"I ride motorbikes and have had injuries in the past, but never anything quite
like this before," he added.

Dean was knocked unconscious and when he awoke he managed to stagger out of the
bus station.

As he did, two police officers came to his aid and an ambulance was called.

He was taken to Derriford Hospital where he remained for five days and underwent
surgery to his jaw.

"They have put wire in my teeth and gums, they are totally wired together," he
added.

Although three weeks have now passed since the attack, Dean is still in a lot of
pain.

Dean, who works as a yard hand in Ivybridge, had been due to return to work
following six months because of an injured finger, but the attack has set him
back several weeks.

Detective Constable Stuart Payne, of Charles Cross CID, is investigating the
attack.

He said: "It was not robbery or anything, just pure violence."

One witness has already come forward, but Dc Payne wants to hear from anyone
else who may have witnessed the brutal assault.

The main attacker is described as a white man in his late 30s, approximately 5ft
11ins tall, of stocky build, with short scruffy black hair, a full unkempt beard
and was wearing a blue jumper. Call 08705 777444.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                             July 29, 2001, Sunday

BIKE BOY IN ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 73 words


A MIDDLE-AGED man attacked a terrified teenager as he rode his bike in a quiet
town.

The 14-year-old was punched in the face and knocked off his bike close to
Kinross Leisure Centre.

He suffered bruising and cuts in vicious assault.

Tayside Police said the attack was carried out on Thursday by a bearded man,
aged between 40 and 50.

The attacker had grey hair, and was wearing a blue T-shirt and grey trousers.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                                 August 1, 2001

Alert at airport as chemical leaks out; Spill at depot 'not connected to
terrorist attacks'

BYLINE: Krista Beighton

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 09

LENGTH: 375 words


TWELVE workers were taken to hospital today and hundreds more were evacuated
after a chemical spill at East Midlands Airport.  Two containers filled with 500
millilitres of chemicals leaked their contents as they were being unloaded from
the DHL International (UK) Cargo West hub at about 4am.

Workers at the Castle Donington airport realised something was wrong when they
noticed the containers were giving off a strong odour.

Several workers who had been exposed to the shipment, containing a cleaning
substance called cyclohexane, then began complaining of eye irritation and mild
respiratory discomfort.

They were taken to Derbyshire Royal Infirmary, but were discharged by lunchtime.

About 220 workers were evacuated following the incident, which caused minor
delays to the processing of other shipments. During peak hours, 600 staff work
at the site.

A spokesman for DHL said: "The welfare and safety of DHL staff is of the utmost
importance and we are currently working to investigate this incident."
Speculation that the packages were linked to the recent biological attacks in
the United States were quickly dispelled by the emergency services.

Leicestershire police spokeswoman Emma Rogers said: "This was a non-suspicious
incident. The situation is now under control and the area has been made safe."
The chemical involved in the spill is a common solvent used in cleaning
products.

The company that produces the substance has been informed.

Spokeswoman for East Midlands Ambulance Service Kay Abbs said: "We took 12
individuals to hospital as a precaution.

"We are convinced that this was not the result of a biological terrorist attack.

"Nobody was in a life-threatening situation and our emergency planning system
would have kicked in anyway." About 30 firefighters from Leicestershire and two
environmental units managed to contain the spillage by securing the affected
packages in a protective drum.

Spokeswoman for East Midlands Airport Clare Allen said security at the airport
had been tightened in light of recent events.

"We were given instructions from the Government after the U.S. attacks," she
said.

"Security has been heightened, but this incident has not been linked to the
attacks."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Prompted by Bygones stories about Derby's Pear Tree Baptist Church,
Geoff Toms pays tribute to his father, a deeply religious man who worked as a
railway guard but spent every spare moment painting, sketching and writing, 'for
the glory of God' . He passed his formidable talents on to Geoff (67), of Cloves
Hill, Morley, who celebrates his father's life.

                     Copyright 2001 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                                 August 1, 2001

Alert at airport as chemical leaks out; Spill at depot not connected to terror
attacks

BYLINE: Krista Beighton

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 373 words


TWELVE workers were taken to hospital yesterday and hundreds more were evacuated
after a chemical spill at East Midlands Airport.  Two containers filled with 500
millilitres of chemicals leaked their contents as they were being unloaded from
the DHL International (UK) Cargo West hub at 4am.

As reported in later editions yesterday, workers at the Castle Donington airport
realised something was wrong when they noticed the containers were giving off a
strong odour.

Several workers who had been exposed to the shipment, containing a cleaning
substance called cyclohexane, then began complaining of eye irritation and mild
respiratory discomfort.

They were taken to Derbyshire Royal Infirmary, but were discharged by lunchtime.

About 220 workers were evacuated following the incident, which caused minor
delays to the processing of other shipments. During peak hours, 600 staff work
at the site.

A spokesman for DHL said: "The welfare and safety of DHL staff is of the utmost
importance and we are currently working to investigate this incident."
Speculation that the packages were linked to the recent biological attacks in
the United States were quickly dispelled by the emergency services.

Leicestershire police spokeswoman Emma Rogers said: "This was a non-suspicious
incident and the area has been made safe." The chemical involved in the spill is
a common solvent used in cleaning products.

The firm that produces the substance has been informed.

Spokeswoman for East Midlands Ambulance Service Kay Abbs said: "We took 12
individuals to hospital as a precaution.

"We are convinced that this was not the result of a biological terrorist attack.

"Nobody was in a life-threatening situation and our emergency planning system
would have kicked in anyway." About 30 firefighters from Leicestershire and two
environmental units contained the spillage by securing the packages in a
protective drum.

Airport spokeswoman Clare Allen said security at the airport had been tightened
in light of events in America on September 11.

She said: "Security has been heightened, but this incident has not been linked
to the attacks." The Health and Safety Executive has been called in to
investigate the incident.


LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TEXT: Three teenage girls will appear in court next week charged with
robbing a 14-year-old of less than GBP 5 at knifepoint.

                     Copyright 2001 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           August 1, 2001, Wednesday

VICTIM RELIVES ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 24 words


A CARDIFF woman has spoken of the moment when she and her friend were dragged
out of their car and attacked at a South Wales beauty spot.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 August 2, 2001

SPRAY ATTACK MUM TELLS OF HER TERROR;
 Car thieves beat her up to get keys

BYLINE: JULIE HARDING

SECTION: News, Pg.2

LENGTH: 453 words


MOTHER Rita Cooney told today how she was sprayed in the eyes with a stinging
substance and repeatedly punched by two men who stole her car.

The 40-year-old Australian was about to collect her three children from a tennis
club when she was attacked in St Andrews.

Mrs Cooney, a registered nurse, who moved to Bristol with her family 20 months
ago, first saw the two men standing either side of an entrance to a lane after
parking her car in Derby Road.

She got out of her R-reg Audi A6 and was about to enter the lane when she
decided to move her car as it was blocking a gateway.

She moved the car further along the road and had just locked it for a second
time when the younger of the two men approached her.

She said: "He came up to me and asked where something was. I didn't quite catch
what he said and then he sprayed me.

"It was icy cold. My first reaction was disbelief. Then he said 'Give us your
keys'.

"I didn't. I struggled and held on to them tighter."

Though Mrs Cooney had been temporarily blinded by the spray she ran from the two
men and started screaming.

She said: "Somehow I ended up on the ground. I couldn't see anything.

When I tried to open my eyes it was excruciatingly painful."

The two men stole her handbag and one of them repeatedly hit her on the head and
body as she lay on the ground to force her to hand over the car keys which were
still in her hand.

She said: "The older one was very determined. He kept punching me and they
eventually got the keys.

"They had trouble opening the passenger door and starting the car and an elderly
man very bravely tried to stop them getting away."

The man, who was 88, and other passers-by went to Mrs Cooney's aid.

She was taken to Bristol Royal Infirmary but fortunately there was no lasting
damage to her eyes.

But it will take her longer to get over the shock of the attack.

She is now fearful of leaving her home alone and wanted to get this message
across to the men who attacked her.

She said: "I trusted you. Not for one minute did I think you were a danger to
me.

"I will no longer be able to trust people."

Mrs Cooney believes her black handbag may have been dumped somewhere by the
thieves. As well as her own purse, it contained her daughter's blue wallet with
the word billabong on it with 60 her daughter had saved inside.

Police are still looking for the dark blue Audi A6 2.8i with the registration
number R143 ULT.

The two robbers are described as being 'olive-skinned'. One was in his teens,
the other older, of stocky build.

Anyone with information should call the free and confidential Crimestoppers line
on 0800 555111.

j. harding@bepp. co. uk

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             August 2, 2001, Friday

KUWAIT FEARS TERROR ATTACK;
 THE WORLD TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 102 words


ONTHE 11th anniversary of being invaded by Iraq, Kuwait has said it is bracing
for terrorist attacks orchestrated by Baghdad.

"We have started to fear terrorist operations by the Iraqi regime, " said
Information Minister Sheik Ahmed Fahd Al Ahmed.

He said recent Iraqi press reports about an alleged armed opposition group in
Kuwait "made us certain that there are intentions for a terrorist act in
Kuwait".

Sheik Ahmed said Iraq's invasion of August 2 1990, and its seven-month
occupation could not be repeated, but Baghdad could invade "through (smuggling)
drugs and spreading weapons".

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                                 August 2, 2001

Sex attack terror in park.

BYLINE: Drew Kendell (author email drew.kendell@bradford.newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 358 words

DATELINE: Bradford,Bingley,Shipley,Spen Valley



A woman taking her dog for an early morning walk has been subjected to a
horrifying sex attack.

The 50-year-old was strolling in Wibsey Park, Wibsey, Bradford, at 6.25am
yesterday when she was approached from behind and forced into nearby bushes and
set upon.

Detectives today urged anyone who was in the area at the time to come forward
and appealed for information about a car seen parked nearby.

They said the woman - who lives locally - was subjected to a serious sexual
assault during which she suffered a number of injuries.

After the attacker fled, she ran to a friend's house nearby where they raised
the alarm.

Police arrived at the scene and the woman was taken to Bradford Royal Infirmary.
She was released after receiving treatment to her injuries.

So far she has been unable to provide an accurate description of her attacker
but specially-trained officers were continuing to speak with her today.

Scenes of Crime Officers were called to the area yesterday to carry out searches
in the hunt for clues.

Detective Inspector Rob Sumner, who is leading the investigation, said he wanted
to hear from anyone who was around the park at the time.

At this stage Det Insp Sumner said there was no evidence to suggest that the
attack was linked to an incident in Wibsey Bank, Odsal, at 2am on Saturday.
There, a 28-year-old woman was grabbed from behind by a man who ran off when a
car drove past.

But he said he was keeping an open mind on the matter and as a matter of course
would also study any relevant reports from the area.

Officers are also seeking information about an old, dark coloured, Sierra-type
car which was seen parked in the entrance of the park at the time of yesterday's
incident.

Det Insp Sumner said this may or may not be linked to the attack and urged its
owner, or anyone who recognised it, to come forward.

"For a woman to be attacked in a park like this is absolutely horrific.

"She has been put through a terrible ordeal and is obviously very traumatised by
it."

Anyone who has any information should contact Bradford Police on (01274) 376459.


LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 August 3, 2001

Real IRA blamed for car bomb attack;
 RECKLESS TERROR: seven injured in west London car explosion

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 623 words


IRISH republican dissidents planning to "kill or maim" were behind a car bomb
attack in London early today, police said.

Metropolitan police Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry said the blast,
caused by a device packed with 88lbs of home-made explosives left near a pub in
Ealing, was a "completely reckless terrorist attack".

The bomb injured seven people when it went off at Ealing Broadway shortly after
midnight as the streets were busy with drinkers heading home.

Mr Fry, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch, said a bomb warning had
been received but the precise location had not been given.

"This is a completely reckless terrorist attack, " he said.

"Police were not given a correct and precise location of the car bomb. No time
of detonation was given. The time between the call and explosion was very short.
This lack of information shows a disregard for lives.

"This is a busy area full of pubs and clubs near to the Tube and railway
stations. The intended victims were wholly innocent, mainly young people
enjoying a night out.

"This device was intended to kill or maim. We believe this attack has been
carried out by Irish dissident republican terrorists."

Mr Fry said a call was made to a doctors' on-call service at 11.33pm last night
and a search of the area was conducted within minutes.

The device exploded near a pub around 100 metres from the Tube and railway
station, seconds after midnight.

Seven people were taken to hospital and four were admitted. Incredibly, none of
the injuries was thought to be life threatening, according to hospital staff.

Eyewitnesses said the blast happened near The Townhouse pub in Uxbridge Road,
just as the area's bars were emptying.

Schoolgirl Nikki Cox, 16, of Ealing, who was outside The Bell pub said: "Police
began to cordon off the area. I asked them what they were doing and they said
they were about to conduct a search.

"Then about half a second later a car exploded. We heard a huge bang and felt
the heat as it went off. All the glass from the shop windows just fell to the
ground and people ran out of the pub. They all began to run towards the bomb not
knowing where the explosion had come from.

It was just a mass of panic."

Speaking after being discharged from hospital, casualty Worayot Anuvatnujotikul,
24, described hearing a "huge explosion" and being told by police to run away
from the scene as fast as possible.

The IT consultant was walking from Ealing Broadway station when the blast
happened, he said.

"As I was walking back home and passing WH Smith there was a huge explosion at
the back. At first I thought it was someone playing with fireworks.

"But suddenly there was glass flying around and coming over my head.

"I ran across the street and the police told us to run away as fast as possible
from the area. The glass came down on my head."

Only after the explosion did Mr Anuvatnujotikul notice there were many police
cars parked in the area, he added.

Landlord Peter Fennelly, whose North Star pub is opposite the bomb site, said he
and his partner Ting Tong Hong were both in the pub when it was badly damaged by
the blast. He said there would have been many more casualties if it had gone off
half an hour earlier when pubs were turning out.

The attack was the second time the area has been targeted in the last 12 months
- and the fourth in the capital this year.

On July 19 last year police carried out a controlled explosion on the Tube line
near Ealing Broadway station. On March 4 this year a bomb exploded in a taxi
parked outside BBC Television Centre in Shepherd's Bush, west London.

Anyone with any information should call police on 0800 789321.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 August 3, 2001

LONDON CAR BOMB BLAST;
Several hurt as midnight terror attack hits shopping centre

BYLINE: Peter Markham

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1121 words


A HUGE car bomb rocked West London early today, prompting fears of a fresh
terrorist campaign in the capital.

The massive blast in Ealing Broadway blew apart the car, shattered windows and
shook homes up to half a mile away.

Several people were believed to have been injured in the explosion, seconds
after midnight.

The car was left outside the Town House pub just 100 yards from Ealing Broadway
Tube and mainline station.

The area was busy with people returning from nights out when the bomb went off,
filling the street with a thick cloud of smoke.

Police had received a phone warning shortly before, but they were still
evacuating pubs and trying to clear the area when the bomb went off.

Early today security sources said they believed the bomb was the work of the
Real IRA, dissident republicans pledged to destroy the Northern Ireland peace
process.

There have been a number of bomb attacks in the West London area in the past two
years, all thought to be the work of the Real IRA.

BBC journalist Shelaye Boothey, who lives nearby, said: 'A lot of young girls
have suffered bad cuts.

They were screaming and shouting and seemed to be in shock.

'The bomb went off pretty close to a Burger King restaurant and there were lots
of young people around there as well.' The blast ruptured a water main and Miss
Boothey said: 'The road is flooded under about two feet of water and there is a
lot of screaming and yelling going on.

'The police are shouting "Get back, get back, there has been a bomb and there
may be another one".' British Transport Police at Hammersmith confirmed that
there had been a coded warning and they had started an evacuation.

But the bomb exploded only some five minutes after the 11 55pm warning, with the
area still crowded.

Bystanders said police began cordoning off the road seconds before the car
exploded.

Schoolgirl Nikki Cox, 16, who was outside The Bell pub, said: 'I asked them what
they were doing and they said they were about to conduct a search.

'Then about half a second later a car exploded. We heard a huge bang and felt
the heat as it went off.

'All the glass from the shop windows just fell to the ground and people ran out
of the pub.

They all began to run towards the bomb not knowing where the explosion had come
from.

It was just a mass of panic.' Local resident Tom Quinn said: 'People were still
running down the street when the explosion occurred. Some were hit by flying
glass and injured.

'I've seen mums arriving at the scene to find out what has happened to their
sons who were in The Town House.' Student Jagpreej Sidhu said he and a friend
were standing closest to the bomb when it went off. He said: 'My friend Anthony
and I were a few metres from the point of the explosion.

'We were just talking when all of a sudden we felt a shock-wave and a massive
explosion and saw a roll of flames coming towards us. Then all the shop windows
smashed and we ducked. It was a combination of ducking and being knocked down.

'We were facing the blast. It was so intense, I can't explain it. I didn't know
what was happening I was so shocked.' Taxi driver Walter Roberti said he was
waiting in a taxi rank opposite the station when a policeman ran up and ordered
him to move. As they spoke the bomb went off.

The Town House is popular with young people and has a late licence on Thursdays
for a karaoke evening.

Alan Joyce, who was drinking there, said: 'It took me off my chair. I ran
outside and there were 70 or 80 girls and guys running up the street and the
whole place was in chaos.

The police were there within seconds.

'Everyone's just in shock you just don't expect it.' Neil Boyd, who was also in
the pub, said: 'We saw a ball of flames outside and a shock-wave went through
the pub.

The noise was intense, It felt like a fire bomb.' Restaurant workers Samantha
Illing, 20, and Marie Wilkins, 24, were taking a break in their All Bar One
branch when the car exploded.

Miss Illing said: 'We were just sitting down when we heard this explosion and
the glass in one of the windows shattered.

We came out and there was a car in flames. It was just like a huge fireball in
the middle of the road.

'There was a really strong smell, a pungent smell of gunpowder.

'Luckily everybody from our bar was inside having a drink.

Normally at that time we would be at the front putting the bins out.'

Ealing Hospital said at 2am that there had been six casualties, five male and
one female.

The spokesman said: 'Two of them were walking wounded and two have head
injuries, but none of them are life-threatening. Their ages range from 20s to
40s.' One man who had been outside the hospital said he saw four people brought
in by ambulance.

He said: 'The fourth one was a guy in his 30s. He had a bandage around his head
and it looked like there was blood coming through.

'He looked very, very confused and shocked but he was able to walk.' News of the
bomb was broken to Tony Blair in Mexico, where he is about to start a family
holiday after an official tour of the region.

His spokesman said Mr Blair expressed his sympathy for those injured in the
blast and their families. He added that the Prime Minister was being kept
informed about the situation 'minute by minute' and that he reiterated his
belief that violence can never be the solution.

Before last night, the most spectacular mainland attack blamed on the Real IRA,
the ruthless group which planted the devastating Omagh bomb three years ago, had
been a car bomb outside BBC Television Centre in March.

The Real IRA is also believed to have been responsible for a bomb disguised as a
torch which maimed a Territorial Army cadet in nearby White City in February, a
bomb attack on a postal sorting office in Hendon, West London, in April, bombs
last year at Hammersmith Bridge and Ealing and a rocket attack on the MI6
building in Vauxhall.

It is the second time in 12 months that the Ealing Broadway area has been
targeted.

On July 19 last year a bomb threat sparked a massive security alert on the line
near the Tube station.

Disposal experts performed a controlled explosion on a device four hours after
sealing off the area.

The latest attack comes with the Ulster peace process in deep crisis.

Ministers are pinning their hopes of saving it from total collapse on an IRA
move on decommissioning .

Republicans meet today to discuss their response to a package offered by Mr
Blair, which includes concessions on policing and troop withdrawals.

All sides have until Monday to respond to the 'take it or leave it' package.

Additional reporting: Duncan Gardham and Jason Woolfe

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TERROR IN THE STREET: A MAN IS DWARFED BY FLAMES AS THE CAR WRECKAGE
BLAZES OUT OF CONTROL IN EALING

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                August 03, 2001

Director attacks 'legal terrorism' after cinema bows to police pressure;

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 296 words


FILM director Ken Fero blamed "legal terrorism" by police yesterday for the
cancellation of a screening of a documentary into deaths in custody at a London
cinema.

The film Injustice had been due to be shown at the Lux Centre in Hoxton, east
London, but the cinema received a warning from Police Federation lawyers
representing the officers named in the film.

A showing of the film at Conway Hall in central London had also been cancelled
by organisers, following a similar legal warning, although members of the
audience screened the film on that occasion.

The film documents the struggles of the families of Brian Douglas, Joy Gardner,
Shiji Lapite and Roger Sylvester in the search for the truth behind the deaths
of their relatives while being held by the police.

Mr Fero called the latest cancellation "frustrating" but not unexpected.

He said: "It is disappointing that another cinema has fallen victim to the legal
terrorism these police officers are using.

"But I am still proud to have spent seven years making this film about these
families' struggle for justice."

A National Assembly Against Racism spokeswoman described the cancellation as
outrageous.

"This film is a moving and sensitive look at the battles these families faced
and an important contribution to the debate on deaths in custody, " she said.

But Police Federation chairman Fred Broughton insisted that no injunction had
been taken out preventing the screening of the film.

"Solicitors, acting on behalf of a number of officers, have written to cinemas
pointing out they may be liable to action should the film be found to be
defamatory, " he said.

The next screening of the film is planned for August 18 in Liverpool at The
Masque, Seel Street, at 7pm.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 August 4, 2001

TV TOUGH-GUY BILLY IN SHARK ATTACK TERROR; IT'S A HARD LIFE

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE BY Lucia Green

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg.  23

LENGTH: 1075 words


ACTOR Billy Murray was swimming for his life. His trainers had filled with water
- dragging him down.

But his main worry was not drowning, it was being eaten by sharks. Sydney
Harbour is full of them.

Billy was in Australia to film a gripping Bill Special called Beech On The Run,
to be screened on August 18.

Last year Don Beech, The Bill's former bad apple who is more slippery than a
jellied eel, flew off to escape a murder wrap. Now he's resurfaced Down Under.

He may be nearer 60 than 50, but the actor who created one of Britain's
favourite bad lads insisted on doing his own stunts. He'd reckoned without the
sharks, though.

"They were a real threat and I had people in the water with me to keep them
away.

"Not only that, but the swell from the liners is 6ft high and I had to do that
scene three times!

"I was fully dressed with trainers and it all weighed a ton. It took several
hours to shoot and by the end I felt physically sick. I just hope they use it!"

As fans will remember, Beech had beaten to death colleague DS John Boulton,
who'd got too close to uncovering one of his shady deals.

Beech went on the run, pursued by DS Claire Stanton, played by Clara Salaman.

Originally a "mole" installed at Sun Hill to watch Beech, she became Boulton's
lover and never forgave herself for not warning him off Beech.

And, guess who has tracked him down in OZ - newly promoted DI Stanton!

It's a peach of a story, packed with action and with an explosive climax.

No wonder Billy Murray is looking pleased with himself as he picks me up from
Upminster Tube station in Essex in a white convertible Merc - one of his 24
classy motors.

Over a shandy outside a country pub, he talks about the debt he owes to The Bill
and how he fell in love with life Down Under.

"I know some actors have slagged off the Bill as soon as they leave, but I would
never do that because I owe the show everything I have.

Aussies love The Bill. I was treated like a pop star, followed everywhere.

"One evening I was in a really posh restaurant when I was suddenly aware of all
these faces against the window watching me!"

In between shooting schedules he climbed over Sydney Harbour Bridge and
marvelled at the view with co-star Clara.

"Off screen she and I are great mates, " says Billy.

"But on screen she is Beech's fly in the ointment, a wasp he can't shake off.

He can't believe it when he turns round and sees her."

Beech is now deeply involved with the Aussie Underworld and drugs.

With new Vietnamese girlfriend Frankie, an ex-prostitute played by Miles Paras,
he commits several audacious robberies.

"It's very pacey and in the end Stanton catches up with him as he's getting away
on his boat.

"She fires and misses, but hits his petrol tank.

There's a huge explosion and the boat blows up.

"Everyone in the area had to be warned, but they forgot to tell the fire
brigade, who turned up!

"It would be amazing if Beech managed to get out of that."

But of course, as Billy Murray stars in a six-part series starting on August 21
called Beech Is Back, you know he's wriggled out ofthe net. But there's more to
come - and guess who isn't far behind him, again!

"People will hate me, " says Billy.

"But I spend an awful lot of time dragging Clara around by her hair, and in real
life she's four months pregnant! I also commit another murder. Beech has
changed. We see a much tougher side." Between shooting dramatic scenes, Billy
indulged himself with fabulous sea food and shopping.

He admits he didn't want to come home. "For two or three weeks I suffered from
paradise lag. But England is my home."

Not only has he got the special and a follow-up series under his belt, he has
also just done a film called Hell to Pay with ex-hardman Dave Courtney.

"He asked me to be in it - I play his nasty brother, " he says. So how come he's
on such good terms with the underworld?

He grins "I know everyone! I fit in with people from all walks of life.

"Tonight I am at a film premiere, last night I was collecting rents!"

The rents in question were for his l04 lock-up garages. "If someone is a bit
slow paying the agent, I go round in person."

Don't people laugh when they see him standing on their doorstep asking for the
rent? There's a silence.

"No one laughs at me. But they may ask for my autograph."

But despite his Essex lad image, he insists is very different from his
character. "I am a lot softer, " he insists.

Beech hasn't a home life.

Whereas father-of-four Billy lives in his palatial Essex home with wife Elaine,
48.

"Bus drivers still lean out and yell, when are you going back to Sun Hill?" he
confides. "Of course, it couldn't happen. Beech is a murderer." But you can
never say never where Don Beech is concerned!

Clara guns for trouble

DI CLAIRE Stanton raises the sawn off shotgun and takes careful aim. The man in
her sights is Don Beech, who murdered her lover, DS John Boulton.

She pulls the trigger. There is a massive explosion as the boat in Sydney
harbour, with Beech on it, is blown to bits. Actress Clara Salaman reels from
the impact, unaware that in real life she was pregnant!

"I had no idea at the time, " says Clara, whose partner is actor Paul Brennen.

He was with her for the first three weeks of the shoot in Oz.

When her schedule permitted they spent their time together. It was a magical
time for the couple. "I loved every single minute, " she said. "All that sun and
space, and time with Paul. But when I returned and we started Beech is Back I
realised I was up the duff.

"I was overjoyed, but hoped I didn't get too fat by episode six!"

Surprisingly she hasn't a problem being dragged around by her hair although
she's now five months pregnant. "Yes, Beech roughs me up quite a bit.

"I also spent four whole weeks being handcuffed and tied up. My joints ached by
the end ofthe day, but it hasn't been a real problem.

"A baby is extremely resilient. He or she - we don't mind which - is quite happy
and protected in their little world.

"I've been lucky, I haven't been sick. I get very tired, but on the whole I am
blooming."

But what about Claire?

"You could say Stanton is driven by guilt because she didn't warn her lover
about Beech, and prevent his murder.

"You have to admire her determination to bring him to justice. It's a brilliant
part."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                 August 4, 2001

attack terror
 Rape-threat thug targets wrong flat

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By REBECCA SHERDLEY and GRAEME PATON

SECTION: NEWS, Pg.1

LENGTH: 260 words


A TERRIFIED pensioner was threatened with rape and murder - after a vicious
robber burst into the wrong home.

Richard Elliott was looking for a man set to testify at his forthcoming trial.

Nottingham Crown Court heard he forced his way into what he thought was the
man's Victoria Centre flat, but found only the woman, 64.

Elliott still grabbed her throat and threatened her, believing she knew the man
he was looking for. He fled when he realised she did not.

The victim is now living in fear. She told the Post: "I don't open my door to
anyone. I just can't cope at the moment."

The court heard how Elliott, 19, and Natalie Britton, 19, both of Halifax Place,
the Lace Market, robbed former friend David Buckle. They conned their way into
his home in Truman Close, St Ann's, and robbed him at knife-point before locking
him inside.

Mr Buckle, 36, had to leap from a firstfloor window to get out.

Sentencing the pair, Recorder Peter Joyce, QC, said: "Your reign in both your
cases has come to an end. You are both a continuing risk to the public."

Elliott and Britton were sent to young offenders' institutions for four years
after being convicted of robbing Mr Buckle.

Elliott was also given three years for assault occasioning actual bodily harm on
the pensioner and six months, to run concurrently, for common assault on a
friend of Mr Buckle. He admitted both offences.

Mr Buckle told the Post: "I am glad they have been locked up but that's not the
end of it. I am finding it hard to get over what they have done."

Full story: Page 11

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ORDEAL: The Victoria Centre flats

                     Copyright 2001 Nottingham Evening Post

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             August 6, 2001, Monday

MIDDLE EAST ERUPTS AFTER TERROR ATTACK IN TEL AVIV

BYLINE: Albert Robinson In Tel Aviv Police detain the drive-by gunman

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 592 words


A Palestinian gunman firing an automatic rifle from a car shot ten people
yesterday, most of them soldiers, on a street outside Israel's Defence Ministry
in Tel Aviv.

The gunman was hit by return fire and seriously wounded. Hours later, Israeli
helicopters fired missiles in the West Bank town of Tulkarem, killing Hamas
activist Amer Mansour Habiri, aged 23, as he travelled in a car, witnesses said.

Israel's army, which has killed about 50 Palestinians in targeted attacks during
the current fighting, claimed he was responsible for bombings and shootings, and
was organising suicide attacks that were to take place within days.

In another development, Israel's Prime Minister Ariel Sharon reasserted his
strong opposition to the Palestinian demand for international observers in the
Middle East conflict.

'We will not be able to accept international forces or international observers,'
said Mr Sharon.

The Palestinians say they want monitors to keep tabs on Israel's powerful
military, but the Israelis have long resisted such calls, saying such a force
would not be effective and may be biased against Israel.

'This is a symbolic issue. The Palestinians are bringing attacks to the middle
of Tel Aviv, the largest Israeli city, very close to the fences of the main
military installation,' said army spokesman Brig Gen Ron Kitrey.

'This is the first time they have shot in such a way in a large city.'

The gunman, travelling in a black car, opened fire with an M-16 automatic rifle
as many of the soldiers were leaving the Defence Ministry building to go to
lunch. Of the ten injured, eight were soldiers. The wounded suffered light to
moderate injuries.

Soldiers and police fired back and hit the gunman, seriously wounding him in the
chest, police said. The gunman's car crashed at a nearby construction site, and
he collapsed.

Palestinian security sources identified the gunman as Ali al-Julani, a 30-year
-old from east Jerusalem. There was no immediate word on whether he was linked
to any Palestinian political group.

Earlier yesterday, Israeli helicopters fired rockets at Palestinian police
offices in Rafah, in the southern part of the Gaza Strip. The Israeli raid
followed repeated mortar attacks by the Palestinians.

The commander of Palestinian national security in Rafah, Col Fawzi Zaqouk, said
three missiles hit his office, causing considerable damage but no casualties. He
said he and other officers heard the helicopters approaching and left the
building.

The Israeli military said it acted after Palestinian militants fired 26 mortar
rounds at Jewish settlements and army outposts in Gaza. One of the mortars
wounded two people, a father and son, at the isolated Jewish settlement of Kfar
Darom, the military said.

On Saturday, Israeli helicopters fired two missiles near the car carrying
prominent Palestinian leader Marwan Barghouti and his bodyguards in the West
Bank town of Ramallah on Saturday.

Barghouti, the leader of Yasser Arafat's Fatah group in the West Bank and one of
the most visible Palestinian leaders in the area, was unhurt in the attack.

He said Israel was trying to assassinate him. The Israeli military had no
official comment, but military sources, demanding anonymity, said the target was
not Barghouti, but one of the bodyguards.

The sources said the bodyguard, Muhannad Abu Halaweh, was responsible for
several attacks against Israelis, including the shooting death of anti-Arab
extremist Binyamin Zeev Kahane and his wife on a West Bank road.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           August 08, 2001, Wednesday

Mugabe mob attacks whites Thugs terrorise wives in rampage after 22 farmers are
held

BYLINE: By David Blair, and Peta Thornycroft in Chinhoyi

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 643 words

A MOB loyal to President Robert Mugabe went on what was described as an
"orchestrated" rampage in Zimbabwe yesterday, beating whites at random and
injuring at least 10.

The scene of the attacks was Chinhoyi, a town 60 miles north-west of Harare, on
one of the main tourist routes to Mana Pools national park and Lake Kariba.

Supporters of Mr Mugabe's Zanu-PF Party massed in the streets, stoning whites'
cars and attacking shoppers, stabbing one victim.

Police told whites to stay out of the town and after the violence many white
townspeople fled to nearby farms.

Mr Mugabe has lost no opportunity to vilify whites in public and has encouraged
his followers to invade 1,700 of their farms.

Critics have said repeatedly that his racial rhetoric would eventually provoke
mob violence in a country where race relations have been generally harmonious.

The violence was apparently provoked by the arrest of 22 white farmers on Monday
night. The men said they were responding to an appeal for help from Tony
Barklay, a landowner, after squatters who had occupied his farm stormed his
house. The invaders said the farmers had attacked them.

When police arrived, they ordered the whites to report to Chinhoyi police
station, where they were arrested on charges of "public violence" and assault.
They were still in custody last night.

Six of the farmers' wives tried to visit them yesterday and found a mob of about
40 youths wearing Zanu-PF T-shirts massed outside the police station.

One of the women was attacked and the gang then ran through the streets,
assaulting other whites.

Magdalina Hartmann, 72, was attacked in a post office while waiting to withdraw
money from her savings account.

She said: "I was waiting in the queue and a man said to me: 'You white bitch, I
am going to hurt you.'

"He said it three times and then hit me on my arm. I could not stop crying then
or now. I don't know what I have done to make people hate me like this."

Mrs Hartmann's doctor said that she had been "badly slapped around".

Dr Chris Lewis treated five victims. He said that all were shocked. One woman
was "quite hysterical".

Dr Lewis treated another woman in her late sixties who was assaulted as she
waited at a supermarket check-out. Witnesses said she was jostled by four men,
one of whom rammed her with a shopping trolley.

Hendrik Spreeth, 45, needed 20 stitches for two 3in stab wounds.

Dr Lewis said: "He was chased down the street by four men. He was kicked,
beaten, punched and stabbed in the arm."

Betty Smith, 80, a farmer, was in a shop on the main street when her son, John,
50, joined her.

"His shirt was torn to pieces and the blood was pouring down," she said.

"They beat the hell out of him with sticks. I came here in 1948 and I never
imagined it could be like this."

A woman in her forties was punched in the face as she left the police station.
She had gone there to register her car and was hit through the window as she
drove off.

One farmer said: "This was clearly orchestrated. The farmers were in jail and
they knew that white people would come and visit them. They had the mob
waiting."

Philip Chiyangwa, the Zanu-PF's MP for Chinhoyi and the local party leader,
blamed farmers for the violence. He accused them of attacking squatters. "When
these farmers go haywire, they start using their guns," he said. They must not
provoke us."

The Foreign Office said that Brian Donnelly, the new British high commissioner,
had protested to the government, but by late last night there had been no
response.

David Joubert, who runs a game ranch 24 miles from Bulawayo, has been charged
with attempted murder.

Family sources said he had been beaten up as police watched after trying to help
his workers. Their homes were being burned down by squatters after clashes
during which shots were fired.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           August 08, 2001, Wednesday

Mugabe mob attacks whites Thugs terrorise wives in rampage after 22 farmers are
held

BYLINE: By David Blair, and Peta Thornycroft in Chinhoyi

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 643 words

A MOB loyal to President Robert Mugabe went on what was described as an
"orchestrated" rampage in Zimbabwe yesterday, beating whites at random and
injuring at least 10.

The scene of the attacks was Chinhoyi, a town 60 miles north-west of Harare, on
one of the main tourist routes to Mana Pools national park and Lake Kariba.

Supporters of Mr Mugabe's Zanu-PF Party massed in the streets, stoning whites'
cars and attacking shoppers, stabbing one victim.

Police told whites to stay out of the town and after the violence many white
townspeople fled to nearby farms.

Mr Mugabe has lost no opportunity to vilify whites in public and has encouraged
his followers to invade 1,700 of their farms.

Critics have said repeatedly that his racial rhetoric would eventually provoke
mob violence in a country where race relations have been generally harmonious.

The violence was apparently provoked by the arrest of 22 white farmers on Monday
night. The men said they were responding to an appeal for help from Tony
Barklay, a landowner, after squatters who had occupied his farm stormed his
house. The invaders said the farmers had attacked them.

When police arrived, they ordered the whites to report to Chinhoyi police
station, where they were arrested on charges of "public violence" and assault.
They were still in custody last night.

Six of the farmers' wives tried to visit them yesterday and found a mob of about
40 youths wearing Zanu-PF T-shirts massed outside the police station.

One of the women was attacked and the gang then ran through the streets,
assaulting other whites.

Magdalina Hartmann, 72, was attacked in a post office while waiting to withdraw
money from her savings account.

She said: "I was waiting in the queue and a man said to me: 'You white bitch, I
am going to hurt you.'

"He said it three times and then hit me on my arm. I could not stop crying then
or now. I don't know what I have done to make people hate me like this."

Mrs Hartmann's doctor said that she had been "badly slapped around".

Dr Chris Lewis treated five victims. He said that all were shocked. One woman
was "quite hysterical".

Dr Lewis treated another woman in her late sixties who was assaulted as she
waited at a supermarket check-out. Witnesses said she was jostled by four men,
one of whom rammed her with a shopping trolley.

Hendrik Spreeth, 45, needed 20 stitches for two 3in stab wounds.

Dr Lewis said: "He was chased down the street by four men. He was kicked,
beaten, punched and stabbed in the arm."

Betty Smith, 80, a farmer, was in a shop on the main street when her son, John,
50, joined her.

"His shirt was torn to pieces and the blood was pouring down," she said.

"They beat the hell out of him with sticks. I came here in 1948 and I never
imagined it could be like this."

A woman in her forties was punched in the face as she left the police station.
She had gone there to register her car and was hit through the window as she
drove off.

One farmer said: "This was clearly orchestrated. The farmers were in jail and
they knew that white people would come and visit them. They had the mob
waiting."

Philip Chiyangwa, the Zanu-PF's MP for Chinhoyi and the local party leader,
blamed farmers for the violence. He accused them of attacking squatters. "When
these farmers go haywire, they start using their guns," he said. They must not
provoke us."

The Foreign Office said that Brian Donnelly, the new British high commissioner,
had protested to the government, but by late last night there had been no
response.

David Joubert, who runs a game ranch 24 miles from Bulawayo, has been charged
with attempted murder.

Family sources said he had been beaten up as police watched after trying to help
his workers. Their homes were being burned down by squatters after clashes
during which shots were fired.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                August 09, 2001

Arab League attacks Israeli 'state terrorism';

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 189 words


ARAB League secretary-general Amr Moussa accused Israel yesterday of "state
terrorism" and called for international efforts to stop its assassination of
Palestinians.

"The Israeli government's continued adherence to a policy of state terrorism in
its declared assassinations of Palestinian individuals despite international
condemnation, represents a dangerous development, " said Mr Moussa.

"It requires an immediate response from the international community."

He called on the global community to ignore Israel's rejection of an
international observer force and to protect the Palestinians.

Palestinian officials have accused Israel of assassinating some 60 activists
since the latest uprising against Israeli occupation erupted in September after
peace talks stalled.

The Arab League added that Israeli missile and tank attacks, as well as the use
of artillery and heavy machine guns against Palestinian homes and interests,
represented a war of attrition against the Palestinian people.

At least 513 Palestinians, 131 Israelis and 13 Israeli Arabs have been killed
since the start of the uprising.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                August 10, 2001

Terror attack;
 FRIGHTENING: robbed grandmother left injured in alleyway

BYLINE: Tamsin Davis

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 347 words


A 73-YEAR-OLD grandmother was left lying injured in an alleyway after being
robbed in broad daylight yesterday.

But despite her frightening ordeal, she says she will not let it put her off
going out alone again.

The woman - who wants to remain anonymous - was walking along an alleyway
between Timbrell Street and Charlotte Street in Trowbridge town centre when she
was attacked from behind.

The robber gave her a violent push in the back which threw her on the floor.

He then grabbed her handbag and shopping bag, nearly ripping her coat sleeve
right off, before running away.

She said: "I never heard anyone coming up behind me or anything.

"The next thing I knew I had been pushed and was down on the floor. I was down
on the floor and I couldn't get up again.

"It wasn't until I was on the ground I noticed both my bags were gone."

She looked up to see a man running off down Charlotte Street and into British
Row, but she did not see his face.

A passer-by found her lying in the passageway and helped her to a nearby surgery
where she was comforted and treated for shock.

She has been left with bruises and a graze on her elbow.

"I'm still a bit shaken, but it could have been worse, " she said.

"It happened in broad daylight.

It's not the sort of thing you expect to happen.

"I shall move on. I just said to my husband I'm not going to let it stop me
doing what I want. I will be a bit more wary about how much money I take out
with me."

The robbery happened between 10.30am and 10.45am.

Police have described it as a vicious attack.

The bags were found discarded last night just 400 yards away from where the
incident happened, with all their contents, including more than 100, still
intact. Scenes of crime officers are now examining them for fingerprints or
traces of DNA.

The robber was a young man about 5ft 4ins, of slim build, wearing a grey jacket
and grey baseball cap.

Witnesses or anyone with information are urged to contact Trowbridge police on
01225 763101 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            August 13, 2001, Monday

BULLDOG BIKERS IN SHOOTING TERROR;
 MYSTERY OF M40 DRIVE-BY ATTACK

BYLINE: Hayley Cuthbertson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 276 words


THREE motorcyclists were shot at from a passing car on a Warwickshire motorway
after leaving the Bulldog Bash festival.

The terrifying drive-by shooting happened at about 12.45pm yesterday on the
southbound carriageway of the M40, close to the Barnhill services near Warwick.

Police say the three bikers, who are from France and Canada, left the Long
Marston airfield near Stratford and were on the way back to London when they
realised they were being shot at from a dark-coloured car travelling in the next
lane.

It is thought the occupants of the car were firing hand guns, and a number of
bullets were discharged.

One of the men, a 31-year-old French Canadian, suffered a wound to one of his
legs, and the party pulled over onto the hard shoulder, about two miles south of
Barnhill services. The other two men were not injured.

The father of one of the three motorcyclists, who was following in a camper van,
also pulled over. A passing motorcyclist, who had also been at the Bulldog Bash
music festival, alerted emergency services.

The injured man was taken to hospital for treatment to a leg injury. His
injuries are not believed to be life-threatening.

An incident room has been set up at Leamington police station. Det Insp Paul
Littlehales, heading the investigation, said: "This is a very serious incident
where innocent motorcycle enthusiasts appear to have been fired on
indiscriminately."

Detectives have stressed the three visitors were not thought to be part of an
organised motorcycle group.

They are appealing for anyone who was on the M40 at the time of the shooting to
contact them on 01926 415000.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                            August 13, 2001, Tuesday

ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 21 words


A DISABLED man aged 61 was attacked by two masked robbers in his bed in West
Road, Ellesmere Port. They took his wallet.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                                August 14, 2001

Woman, 30, in gun attack terror.

BYLINE: Drew Kendell (author email drew.kendell@bradford.newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 470 words

DATELINE: Bradford,Bingley,Shipley,Spen Valley



Detectives said a woman was lucky to be alive today after masked gunmen blasted
a shotgun at her through her bedroom window.

Officers launched an attempted murder inquiry after the attackers struck at
around 10.40pm last night, probably shooting from a pub car park behind the
first floor flat in Queensbury, Bradford, or from stairs outside the flat.

The 30-year-old victim, who was sitting on a bed in the property, above Charles
Walker estate agents on the High Street, was unhurt but deeply shocked by the
incident.

Eye witnesses reported seeing two men, one wearing a balaclava, running from the
scene behind the High Street pub in Briggs Street.

One neighbour, who didn't want to be named, said: "I heard two shots. There was
one loud bang and then what seemed like two minutes later there was another.

"To start with I thought they were kids letting off fireworks, but now we have
found out what it was, it is really frightening."

The woman said her boyfriend had gone to the window and seen a man running from
the scene. She added: "This could have been us. It is scary to think that
someone could be shot at like this so close by.

"I don't know the woman but she is quiet and always keeps herself to herself."

Detective Superintendent Phil Sedgwick, who is leading the investigation, said
shot had landed in the ceiling of the bedroom suggesting it may have been fired
from the car park below.  He said: "Firing a shotgun from this range could
easily have been deadly. Any incident involving a firearm can have tragic
consequences and this certainly could have been one of them."

Det Supt Sedgwick said officers did not know the motive for the attack.

"At the moment it is a mystery. We will be studying the scene today and
specially-trained officers will be interviewing the victim who is now staying
with friends."

This afternoon forensic teams sealed off the rear of the premises and searched
for clues. Ballistic experts were also called to study the pellet marks within
the flat.

Armed response teams arrived on the scene within minutes of a 999 call being
made, said Det Supt Sedgwick. Although they made a search of the area they were
unable to find the culprit.

He said neighbours reported hearing two loud bangs but so far there is only
evidence of one shot being fired.

He added: "Two men were seen before the incident in Briggs Street and two men
were seen running away from the area afterwards. We would appeal for anyone with
information to contact us immediately."

One of the men was described as white, in his mid 20s, of stocky build, around
5ft 8in tall with a "skinhead" hair cut.

The otherman, wearing the balaclava, was tall and slim.

Anyone with information should contact Bradford North CID on (01274) 376059.


LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                August 15, 2001

Trio: boys terrorised us says attacker

BYLINE: by LNewton

SECTION: News:Courts:Magistrates Court, Pg.7

LENGTH: 335 words


Support offered after guilty plea

BY Lorraine Newton

A man who claimed residents were terrorised by a group of youths has appeared in
court for assaulting a teenager and causing another to fear racially aggravated
violence.

A petition of support signed by 14 friends and neighbours was presented to
magistrates when Mark Tkaczuk, 34, of Melton, appeared at Melton court yesterday
to be sentenced. He had earlier pleaded guilty to both charges.

Prosecutor Sue Lawley said two teenage boys were playing football when their
ball accidentally struck Tkaczuk's car.

He approached one of the boys with his fists clenched and racially insulted him
after the boy laughed at him several times. He continued to call the boy racist
names and the boy later told police it was the first time an adult had ever
spoken to him in that manner. He said he was embarrassed about being called
names in front of his friends.

Tkaczuk then approached the second boy and grabbed him.

Mr Paul Harkins, representing Tkaczuk, said his client had pleaded guilty
because he did grab one of the boys by the lapels and had made racist remarks to
another.

But Mr Harkins claimed the pair were part of a trio which had been terrorising
an area and his client believed they were behind the destruction of bus shelters
and pensioners' pots and plants and for throwing mud, stones and eggs at homes.

He said the ball was blasted at his car hard enough to set the alarm off and
that the racist comments were only made after the boy had made "vulgar" remarks
to Tkaczuk's wife.

Mr Harkins insisted his client, who is half Ukranian, was "quite vehement that
he is not racist".

Magistrate Mrs Jennifer Lord said Tkaczuk would normally have received 100 hours
community punishment but the court was reducing it to 70 hours because Tkaczuk
has admitted his guilt and shown remorse and because magistrates believed there
was provocation.

Tkaczuk was also ordered to pay GBP 55 costs. The court ruled neither youth can
be identified.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2001 Leicester Mercury

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                August 16, 2001

Security experts warn over terror attack risk

BYLINE: By Desmond McCartan

LENGTH: 274 words


SECURITY experts have reinforced confidential warnings to police forces of the
risk of further terrorist attacks in Britain.

A source said that, in the aftermath of the Ealing car bomb attack attributed to
the Real IRA, an urgent reappraisal of the threat, which already had caused a
high level of alert, had been conducted.

However, following last weekend's disclosures about the activities of IRA
suspects in Colombia and the withdrawal of the IRA's decommissioning proposal,
there are clearer political and security concerns in London.

According to one source, there has been "a considerable amount of traffic" in
reports and analysis of the current situation.

There is no suggestion that Whitehall is revising its thinking on the IRA
ceasefire, and the Government remains confident it will hold.

Part of the assessment is that, at some point, the decommissioning proposal will
be revived by the Provisionals after exerting further pressure for movement on
policing and demilitarisaion.

But there is concern that the IRA's switch of stance, in the wake of the
Government's decision to opt for a brief technical suspension of the Assembly,
could be exploited by dissidents.

So far, there has been no substantive comment from Tony Blair as efforts
continue to interpret the developments in Colombia.

Mr Blair, on holiday in Cornwall with his family, is receiving full briefings.

His holiday venue, the four-star Carlyon Bay Hotel near St Austell, was the
scene of an impromptu summit with Taoiseach Bertie Ahern in February last year.
At the time, Mr Blair was forced to curtail a fact-finding visit.


LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                August 17, 2001

Terror attack on three pensioners;
 INJURIES: callous thug smashes elderly woman in her face

BYLINE: Simon Davies ;Tamsin Davis

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 322 words


POLICE are hunting a robber who has terrorised three elderly women in Trowbridge
in the last week.

In one callous attack, a 76-year-old woman was attacked in her own home.

A man forced his way into her flat in Hill Street at around 10.40am yesterday.

He hit the woman in the face before demanding to know where her handbag was.

Despite being injured, the victim kept her wits about her and managed to call
the police which prompted the intruder to flee the flat. She was left with a cut
to her eye and other facial injuries, but it is thought the robber left
emptyhanded. A short while later, the same man is thought to have struck again.

At 10.55 am, he approached a 75-year-old woman in Seymour Road.

He grabbed her handbag and ran off along an alleyway to the side of the Alldays
store.

This is the third such incident.

The first happened on Thursday when a 73-year-old grandmother was robbed.

Her assailant attacked her from behind and pushed her to the floor.

He then grabbed her handbag and shopping bag before running off.

The attack happened between 10.30am and 10.45am as the woman walked along an
alleyway between Timbrell Street and Charlotte Street in Trowbridge town centre.

The pensioner was left lying in the alleyway but was helped to a doctor's
surgery by a passer-by where she was treated for shock.

Her bags and all their contents were later discovered nearby.

In both of yesterday's incidents the offender was described as being white, aged
25 to 30 years old and wearing a fawn or beige jacket.

Sgt Graham Fisher of Trowbridge police said the same culprit was believed to be
responsible for all three attacks.

Detectives are appealing for anyone with information to come forward.

Police spokesman Adrian Burt said: "These were cowardly attacks on elderly
residents. These kind of offences are unusual.

"This kind of attack will not be tolerated."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            August 17, 2001, Friday

CARE HOME RAPIST JAILED FOR LIFE;
 PARALYSED PATIENT'S SEX ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Arryn Buggins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 230 words


SICK Ian McDonald was jailed for life today for raping a disabled woman in a
Warwickshire care home.

The 34-year-old care worker, of Landor Road, Whitnash, Leamington, pleaded
guilty to a charge of rape at Warwick Crown Court.

It was revealed that the defendant had been convicted of another sex offence 12
years ago.

The brief hearing was told that McDonald sneaked into the 38-year-old victim's
room at the private care home and attacked her.

No one knew about the traumatic ordeal of the paralysed and brain-damaged
victim, who can communicate only by blinking her eyes or slightly nodding her
head, until doctors found she was pregnant several months later.

She gave birth to a baby girl earlier this year. She is being cared for by the
victim's shocked family.

DNA evidence showed there was a one in 120,000 chance that McDonald was not the
rapist.

The judge, the Hon Mr Justice Hughes ordered McDonald to register as a sex
offender indefinitely, and said he would not be considered for release for at
least six years.

Judge Hughes, said: "It was a particular wicked rape.

"She was not just a vulnerable women she was helpless."

He added the victim could not speak, could not dress herself, could not feed
herself, but she could hear and she had limited use of a finger.

"It was simple exploitation of a helpless patient," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            August 20, 2001, Monday

TEENAGER'S CAR TERROR;
 INJURED IN HIT-AND-RUN ATTACK

BYLINE: Andy Probert

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 207 words


A TEENAGER had a miracle escape when a man drove his car at him in a cold
-blooded hit-and-run attack.

The unnamed 17-year-old was standing with friends outside the Comberton Arms
pub, in Coronation Way, Kidderminster, when the drama unfolded.

The driver of a blue Ford Fiesta XR2 mounted the pavement and struck him shortly
after midnight on Saturday.

His friends dived out of the way, but the victim was pushed on to the bonnet and
into the windscreen which shattered. He then fell to the ground and the car
drove off.

A West Mercia Police spokesman said the man was taken to hospital and treated
for a broken arm and cuts to his face needing five stitches.

He said: 'The car was deliberately driven at him. The attack is being treated as
a serious assault and we would appeal for anyone who may have seen the car to
come forward.

'He is very fortunate to have esaped with cuts and a broken arm. We could have
been dealing with a murder.'

He added that the car, which had a 'motorsport' motif written on it, was
believed to have been accompanied by two moped riders. One of the bikes was
yellow.

Anyone with information should contact Crimestoppers on 0800 555111 or
Kidderminster Police on 01562 820888.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            August 21, 2001, Tuesday

TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 38 words


WOMEN rebels attacked a Sri Lankan police camp before dawn today, killing 16
policemen, two civilians and wounding 18 others. Police said seven rebels were
also killed and nine were wounded in the Tamil Tigers operation.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            August 21, 2001, Tuesday

TICKET COLLECTOR IN ATTACK TERROR;
 ASSAULT DRAMA ON CROWDED PLATFORM

BYLINE: Les Clives DO YOU KNOW THIS MAN? Police issued these CCTV images as part
of their inquiry

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 200 words


THIS is the terrifying moment when a guard was attacked in front of dozens of
commuters at a busy railway station.

The 55-year-old victim had his glasses smashed and suffered cuts and bruises in
the assault on the platform at Galton Bridge, Smethwick.

He was attacked by a passenger who refused to pay his fare for the short journey
from Langley Green to Galton Bridge.

Challenged

British Transport Police today issued this closed circuit television picture of
the offender in a bid to track him down.

Det Sgt Hugh Jones, British Transport Police spokesman, said: 'The passenger was
challenged by the guard and he refused to pay for a ticket.

'He got off the train at Galton Bridge where the guard continued to ask him to
pay for a ticket.

'He ended up assaulting the guard, causing a one-inch cut to his head and cuts
and bruising to his face.

'People going about their lawful business should not be subjected to attacks
like this, ' he said.

The attack happened on Friday shortly after 12.30pm and anyone who recognises
the offender should contact officers on 0121 643 8785.

The offender was 5ft 11in tall. stocky build with short hair and clean shaven.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            August 21, 2001, Tuesday

BOMB SCOTS: WE WON'T GO BACK TO SPAIN;
 VOW AFTER ESCAPE FROM TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: Alex Dowdalls Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 319 words


SCOTS tourists cut their holidays short and vowed never to return to Spain after
a terrorist bomb exploded outside their hotel.

Basque separatists ETA detonated the car bomb in Capsalou on Spain's Costa
Dorada on Saturday.

It wrecked two hotels and injured 13 people. More than 800 tourists were
evacuated.

David Mulholland, 22, from Glasgow, was staying at the Font de Mar Hotel, which
was badly damaged by the blast. He was with his fiancee, Hester Flynn, 30, her
mum Jean, 63, and Hester's children John, 12, Joseph, eight, and William, seven.

He said: "I'll never ever go back to Spain again and never fly out of this
country again.

"I could have been blown away. We only got out 15 seconds before the bomb went
off. It's Butlin's for me from now on.

"The experience was terrifying. When the bomb went off I was separated from my
family. There was screaming everywhere."

Tony McHale, 20, and his 19-year-old girlfriend Nicola Mackie, from Ballingry,
Fife, were also staying at the Font de Mar.

They cut their holiday short and arrived back in Scotland early on Sunday. Tony
said: "We were in our beds when we heard the explosion. The window flew in and
we were showered with glass and rubble.

"We heard screaming everywhere and were quickly evacuated from the hotel.

"I'm still shaking. The slightest bang of a door even makes me jump. We escaped
injury, but we were both in shock.

"Our room was just a total wreck and it was a miracle we escaped unhurt. There
was a partition behind our beds and it came flying off such was the strength of
the bomb.

"We weren't due home until Wednesday but we were all pretty worked up."

The 100lbs device was planted in a white Renault 25 with a false number plate.
It had been stolen in a Basque town and sat in front of the Hotel Cala Font for
a week.

Police were warned there was a bomb an hour before the explosion.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                August 21, 2001

DAILY STAR WARNED OF TERROR ATTACK; WILLS' UNI BOMBERS

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE by MYRA PHILP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 468 words


SCOTTISH terrorists who threatened to kill Prince William sent a fake bomb to St
Andrews University yesterday, claiming it contained the deadly anthrax virus.

Fife Police confirmed last night that staff had received a package containing an
"unknown substance" at the Fife university where the Prince is due to begin
studying in three weeks' time.

Fife Constabulary refused to confirm if the letter is being linked to earlier
warnings by the Scottish National Liberation Army (SNLA) who contacted the Daily
Star 12 days ago to warn they had posted a "bacterial agent" to the University.

At the time, the SNLA said: "The bio-scare will act as a reminder to the British
State that the SNLA can strike at will. We can kill William. . . and we will."

Firemen wearing protective chemical suits were called to the university, where
the 19year-old Prince will study art history, when the package was opened
yesterday morning.

Last night a police spokesman said: "A suspicious package was received by St
Andrews University staff. As a precaution Fife Fire and Rescue Service were
asked to help deal with the package.What exactly the package contained still has
to be determined."

Anthrax is a disease normally found in sheep and cattle. It produces airborne
spores which attack the lungs. A fatal dose can cover a fingertip and is
invisible. Because it can be used in biological warfare, military personnel are
given vaccinations to help protect them against it.

The SNLA has used the fake anthrax tactic before in attacks in America.

There staff and retail premises had to be hosed down and put in quarantine
before experts ascertained what the packages contained.

Fife Police refused to confirm if any precautionary measures were taken at St
Andrews university.

When the SNLA claimed 12 days ago that a "bug bomb" package had been sent, the
university and police denied their claims.

The university's principal Dr Brian Lang went as far accusing the Daily Star of
being "irresponsible" for reporting the claims.

He has also complained to the Press Complaints Commission about our front page
story.

A similar suspicious package was also sent yesterday to the Department of the
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra), in Central London.

Defra dealt with the disposal of animals in the foot-and-mouth epidemic and the
'attack' confirmed terrorism experts' suspicions that Animal Rights activists
may have joined forces with the SNLA.

Aberdeen University terrorism expert David Capitanchik said: "The SNLA has a few
students working for it."

It is now thought that Animal Rights organisations are helping the SNLA's
leader, Adam Busby, exiled in Dublin, to carry out direct action on the
mainland.

Last night St Andrews University refused to comment.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 Express Newspapers

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           August 22, 2001, Wednesday

'CATHOLIC' GROUP CLAIMS STRING OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 147 words


A PIPE bomb thrown at a Ballymena house was made safe last night when Army bomb
experts carried out a controlled explosion.

The device is believed to have lain undiscovered in the garden of the house
until late afternoon when a little-heard- of republican group claimed it carried
out the attack on Monday night.

Several houses around the property in Knockeen Road were evacuated while the
Army dealt with the device.

Police said a number of items had been taken away for examination.

The Catholic Reaction Force claimed responsibility for the attack in calls to
Belfast newsrooms. It also said it was behind a night-time gun attack on a house
in Cloughmills, in which a 10-year-old boy escaped uninjured when a bullet
smashed through his bedroom window.

The caller said the CRF was also behind an attack on another Ballymena house
last week.

See Page 2

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                August 22, 2001

SOAPER STAR; JANINE 'S SEX ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 200 words


EASTENDERS minx Janine Butcher will be assaulted by two sex-crazed yobs after
she teases them to make older man Tel jealous.

The busty 19-year-old, played by Charlie Brooks, flirts with the young lads to
bait her former platonic sugar daddy Terry Raymond - actor Gavin Richards -
after their fall-out.

But her tarty trickery, during a boozy night at the Queen Vic pub lands her in
big trouble.

Her two lusty admirers reckon Frank Butcher's wildchild daughter is up for
nookie when she comes on to them in the pub.

And when she then snubs them they see red. They ambush her after she leaves the
boozer and try to have sex with her. Janine fights off the fiends and escapes
rape. But the assault leaves her shattered and in need of counselling.

An Albert Square insider said last night: "It's tough TV. Janine gives these two
guys the idea she is up for sex, and they get very angry when they find she's
been teasing. But luckily, she fights them off."

Terry is fed up with Janine's games, rages at her in the pub and leaves her with
the two lads.

Our source added:

"Janine ends up in real danger. It could even act as a warning to women not to
act as Janine does."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                August 22, 2001

Face of bogus cabbie in terror sex attack

BYLINE: SEB RAMSAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 412 words



THIS is the face of a bogus cab driver who left a woman cut and bleeding in a
horrific sex attack in Manchester.  The appalling attack again highlights the
constant danger from fake cabbies, highlighted in May by an M.E.N.
investigation.

The latest victim, aged 23, was left with knife cuts across her chest and thighs
by an Asian attacker on wasteground in Cheetham Hill, Manchester.  Detectives
believe the attacker was posing as a cab driver when the woman and three friends
hailed him outside Friday's night-spot on Palatine Road in Didsbury.

The attack happened early on Saturday, July 23, but details were only released
today because the victim has been so badly traumatised.  The man, in a red car
with white diamond patterned upholstery, dropped the woman's friends in Chorlton
at around 3.40am, before heading on towards her home.

During the journey, the woman became increasingly alarmed as the driver started
asking more and more personal and aggressive questions about her relationships.
Frightened of letting him know her real address, she asked him to drop her
outside a house on St James' Road in Cheetham Hill.  Walking up to the front
door of the house, she pretended to put her key into the lock but fled when
lights came on inside.

Police say the driver saw her running off up Allesley Drive and chased her as
she cut across wasteground towards Barrowhill Road.
   Catching her up, the man pushed her to the ground as she scrambled up a bank
and slashed her chest and thighs before seriously indecently assaulting her.
After 10 minutes, he ran away and the woman was able to call her boyfriend for
help.
    The attacker was 40-45, with dark hair which came down to his ears at the
side and was longer at the back,and unusually large teeth. He was wearing a
dark coloured track suit top.
    Detective Constable Laurence Dixon said: This was a frenzied attack on a
lone female as she made her way home from a night out.
     We do not believe that a genuine taxi driver was responsible for this
attack. It is more likely that this man saw an opportunity and picked the four
people up under the pretence of being a private hire car.
     I would like to take this opportunity to remind people never to get into a
car that stops at the side of the road unless it is a black cab.''
    Anyone with information is asked to contact Collyhurst CID on 0161 856
3940.



LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: WANTED. . . the police e-fit of the attacker

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                August 23, 2001

Eagle attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 175 words



THIS is the terrifying moment a bald eagle swooped down on a little girl.
Three-year-old Kayla Finn was attacked by the bird as she played in the coastal
resort of Hampton Beach, New Hampshire in the U.S.

Her father Paul, of Albany, New York, frightened the bird away and Kayla, who
suffered scratches on her back from its claws, did not need medical treatment.
Other children were playing football on the beach nearby.


The bird was later caught in Salisbury, Massachusetts, near the New Hampshire
state line, and taken to an animal clinic.  The eagle, with a 6ft wingspan, had
been released into the wild from a North Carolina wildlife reserve. It had been
menacing people since last Friday and slightly injured a girl and two adults on
Sunday.

Peter MacKinnon, New Hampshire's animal control officer, said: Other beaches
have sharks, but at Hampton, we had to be different - we had to get an attack
eagle.  He associates people with food and that's the worst possible situation
for a wild bird.''


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: THE bald eagle swoops down and claws a terrified Kayla Finn as she
plays on the beach; KAYLA'S dad Paul rushes to help her

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                                August 23, 2001

Widow in race attack terror.

BYLINE: Anila Baig (author email anila.baig@bradford.newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 625 words

DATELINE: Bradford,Bingley,Shipley,Spen Valley



An 81-year-old widow suffered a split skull when a brick was hurled through her
bedroom window in a racist attack on refugees in Bradford.

Residents say gangs of Asian youths have been targetting Kosovar refugees and
elderly people who live in a block of council homes in West Bowling.

More than 18 windows were smashed in the block of flats and maisonettes during
the attack on Sunday night. Police today confirmed they are treating the
incident as racially motivated.

Jennie Ali, pictured, was reading in bed when a brick smashed through her window
and struck her on the head.

She said: "I can't believe it. I survived the bombing in London and it's nothing
like this. We were all right until the Council moved the refugees here and now
there are gangs who are targeting them."

Mrs Ali, whose husband was Pakistani, tried to activate the Careline alarm
service in her flat after the attack but found it was out of order. With her
head bleeding and eyes purple with bruising, she was forced to telephone her
family for help.

She was treated at Bradford Royal Infirmary for cuts and bruises to her head and
face.

Her daughter, Miriam Mullanie, 50, said: "My mother's head was covered in blood.
What sort of person can do that?

"We think they were picking on a man from Kosovo because three of his windows
were put through. It is beyond belief what is happening in this area."

Other residents, many of whom are elderly or suffer from serious illnesses, fear
for their lives and say they have become virtual prisoners in their home.

Brenda Murphy, 69, whose bedroom windows are boarded up after being smashed in
the attack, said: "Jennie could have been killed. If she hadn't had managed to
get to the phone she could have bled to death.

"What I don't understand is how these lads can be so cruel to refugees. Why
can't they live and let live.

"I have had bottles hurled through the window, lads urinating on the windows,
swearing, throwing fireworks. My husband served in India during the war and my
son's best friend was Asian. We don't have any quarrel, we want peace, but you
feel that at any moment the situation will explode."

A Bradford Police spokesman said officers were called to reports of a burglary
at the block, shortly before 11pm on Sunday.

She said: "This is an isolated incident but it is being treated as racially
motivated and the cause is being investigated by officers from the New Deal for
Communities and CID.

"We are working closely with Bradford Council housing and youth service
departments and voluntary youth groups to investigate the offences and patrols
will be increased in the area this week."

Councillor Ali Mukhtar (Lab, West Bowling) strongly condemned the youths'
actions and said that attacks carried out by Asians on fellow Muslims were
"beyond belief".

"I utterly and wholeheartedly condemn the actions of these thugs on the elderly
and asylum seekers. They are vulnerable members of our society and are being
treated appallingly."

Refugee Council spokesman Hana Fazal also condemned the attacks and said local
and national politicians needed to make more effort to educate people about the
plight of the refugees.

"It is vital they dispel some of the myths that have taken hold in the media and
the public perception. They need to explain the tough reality of being an asylum
seeker in the UK."

Today Bradford Council attempted to play down the situation. A spokesman for the
Council's housing department said: "There are asylum-seekers in the West Bowling
area and we are not aware of any difficulties and with them."

Anyone with any information about the attack should contact Bradford South
Police on (01274) 376459.


LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                                August 23, 2001

Umar tells of dog attack terror.

BYLINE: Andrew Hebden (author email andrew.hebden@bradford.newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 406 words

DATELINE: Bradford,Bingley,Shipley,Spen Valley



A nine-year-old boy has been savaged by a dog on a Bradford estate.

Umar Farooq could be scarred for life after he suffered bites on his arms, legs
and back when the dog set upon him.

The attack happened while he was in the back garden of a house on Tern Street,
Canterbury, where he had been playing. He suffered a five-minute attack before
scrambling over a garden gate to safety.

Umar, pictured, managed to walk home to nearby Ringwood Road where his mum found
him covered in blood and so shocked he was unable to speak. He was immediately
taken to Bradford Royal Infirmary where his wounds were cleaned and bandaged. He
has had to return to the hospital every day since the attack for treatment on
his wounds.

Umar, who attends St Oswald's Primary School, Little Horton, said he has been
haunted by the attack and was afraid to leave his home.

He said: "I am really scared about what happened. I haven't been able to sleep
and don't want to leave the house. I keep thinking what could have happened if
it had got hold of my neck. It nearly went for my wrists."

"It really hurt and I am still in a lot of pain, especially with my legs."

His mum Ruksana, 32, said: "He came back all on his own, bleeding really
heavily. I would like to see that dog destroyed for what it has done to my son."

Mrs Farooq, 32, said she was also angry that it had taken police three days
before they took a statement about the incident.

"They did not even bother to telephone us back. In the time it took for them to
respond, another child could have gone in that garden and been killed by that
dog."

A West Yorkshire police spokesman said: "The dog warden is involved and, because
of this and the huge number of 999 calls the police receive, we have to
prioritise.

"It is down to the Council dog warden to remove the dog if it is dangerous."

Bradford dog warden Terry Singh said that an officer had visited both the victim
and the dog owner. He said: "The owner has now been made aware of her
responsibility to keep any dog on the premises under control and we were happy
that the only dog there at the time of our visit was chained up and fenced in.

"We have been told that children do jump over the fence and into that garden and
that on this occasion the dog's chain had snapped. We will be keeping a check on
the dog.''

A police investigation into the incident is ongoing.



LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            August 27, 2001, Monday

WOMAN TELLS OF TERROR OF BREADKNIFE ATTACK

BYLINE: Elwyn Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 451 words


A DENBIGH woman has told of her terror when she thought she would die after a
former friend stabbed her in the neck with an eight-inch breadknife.

Donna Roberts, 34, was fighting for her life when the blade was thrust into her
neck.

In desperation she grabbed the blade, seriously cutting her hand, in a bid to
stop the blade penetrating further.

Yesterday Mrs Roberts, the mother of a teenage daughter, said she thought a 15
-month prison sentence imposed on the attacker at Mold Crown Court on Friday was
not enough for what had happened but she felt sorry for her attacker's little
girl being without her mum.

She fears what might happen when Joanne George is released.

"I don't know whether to organise a petition to try and stop her coming back to
Denbigh or whether it would be best for me to move away. I just don't know what
to do, " she said.

George, 26, the mother of a threeyear-old daughter, admitted wounding.

Judge John Rogers QC told George, of Maes-y-Dre, Denbigh, that the wound to the
neck could have been fatal.

A more serious charge of wounding with intent was dropped at an earlier hearing
and it was accepted that George had wounded her recklessly by hitting her when
she had the knife in her hand - she had been using it as a screwdriver to fix
her spectacles.

But Mrs Roberts said that she had no doubt that George had intended to hurt her
and she had feared that she was going to die.

"It has been described as a quarrel on her doorstep but it wasn't. She just came
out with the knife and flew at me before I had a chance to say anything, " she
said.

She had gone there following an earlier incident when George was said to have
had a go at Mrs Roberts' teenage daughter.

She said: "I was expecting an argument but never in a million years did I think
I would end up being stabbed.

"Obviously, I would never have gone around there if I thought there was a
possibility of anything like this happening. I didn't have a chance to open my
mouth, .

"She lunged at me with the knife and was pushing it in and I was trying to pull
it out. I felt the blood trickling down my neck as I was trying to pull the
knife away. I was petrified.

"I honestly thought I was going to die. I tried to walk to a friend's house but
I collapsed on the way. There was blood everywhere."

Mrs Roberts was taken by ambulance to Glan Clwyd Hospital, where she had surgery
for a one-and-half inches deep cut on her neck, near the collar bone. She also
was cut on the hand and has still not regained full use of one of her fingers.
She said: "I went to hospital again last week and apparently I have tendon
damage. I don't think it will get any better."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           August 29, 2001, Wednesday

Terrorist attack hits bottom line

BYLINE: By Carolyn Batt

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 304 words

THE seizure of an Istanbul conference venue by Chechen rebels in April resulted
in a pounds 200,000 hit for publishing and conference company Metal Bulletin.

Chief executive Tom Hempenstall said an insurance claim had been lodged to
recover losses after the rebels stormed Istanbul's luxury Swissotel during the
night and took hostages including Metal Bulletin staff and conference delegates.
Terrified hotel guests hid as gunshots shattered windows and hostage-takers
warned Turkish authorities of dire consequences if they intervened.

The attack, protesting against Russia's military occupation of Chechnya, ended
without injury after 12 hours, but Metal Bulletin cancelled three conferences
and reimbursed delegates their registration fees.

Mr Hempenstall said he expected to settle the claim for around pounds 100,000,
which would be recorded as a credit in the current half.

However, the hit was only a small dampener on the group's record interim
results. Metal Bulletin posted pre-tax profits up 65pc to pounds 4.49m in the
six months to June 30, as rising subscription revenues and an above-budget
performance from its financial division offset the advertising downturn. The
figure included a one-off gain of pounds 2.4m from disposals.

Mr Hempenstall was confident of achieving full-year profits of around pounds
9.5m. He said advertising made up less than a quarter of revenues - an advantage
in the current publishing environment.

He added: "Clearly as there's consolidation in the metals sector - for example
the BHP Billiton merger - that will have some impact on subscription levels.
However, our underlying subscription revenues are up because of the move towards
electronic delivery, to enhance hard-copy publications."

Metal Bulletin shares closed down 12 1/2 at 207 1/2 p.
[PS]City: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                August 29, 2001

Elderly pair's terror leap in arson attack

BYLINE: CLAIRE HINDLEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 391 words


AN ELDERLY couple were forced to jump from a first floor window after arsonists
set fire to their home.  Police confirmed that a burning wheelie-bin was placed
outside the entrance to the couple's maisonette block.

Lawrence Smith, 82, and his 76-year-old wife Mary suffered serious injuries when
they made the leap early today.  They were taken to Tameside Hospital where Mr
Smith was treated for burns to his face and suspected back injuries, while his
wife was treated for a suspected broken leg and pelvis.

The fire was one of nine blazes to strike Hyde within the space of an hour this
morning.  The couple jumped from their window when they found their escape route
to the stairwell at the two-maisonette block in Beech View blocked by flames and
smoke.

Firefighters, called by neighbours just before 1am, arrived at the scene seconds
before the terrified couple jumped to the ground.  Leading fireman Tony
Senderski, of Stalybridge fire station, said: We had just put the ladders up to
the window but the couple could not take any more.
  The flames were closing in behind them and they just jumped.''    He told how
the fire had spread from the stairwell into Mr and Mrs Smith's kitchen, living
room and hallway.
    Neighbour Rosario Sarno, a 38-year-old accountant, contacted the fire
brigade after waking to hear the crackling flames.
 He said: I was screaming and shouting and eventually they came to the window
looking very confused - I think they were affected by the thick smoke.
If this was started deliberately then those responsible must be inhuman.''

Resident Trevor Padget, 74, said: Everyone here is really shocked and shaken by
what has happened.  Mr Smith has just recovered from a stomach operation and he
has heart problems.

He was trying his best to get on with things.  He and his wife are a lovely
couple, everyone is very concerned about them. It is awful and it makes you
wonder what to expect next.''

Inspector Andy Searle, of Stalybridge police, said: There have been a number of
arson incidents in the area recently but I believe this is the first to be
directly associated with a dwelling.'' He added: It is frightening to think that
someone would target anyone's home - especially that of an elderly couple.''



LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           August 30, 2001, Thursday

COUNTING COST OF TERRORIST ATTACKS ARSONISTS BRING MISERY FOR YOUNG ENTREPRENEUR

BYLINE: Lesley Walsh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 460 words

HIGHLIGHT: FACING CLOSURE: Darren McBride at his autoparts store in Fairhill;
Street which was burned overnight Pictures: Kevin McAuley; ALERT: Army technical
officers at the Boyd Arms, in Ballycastle, where they defused a device


A PROTESTANT businessman may be forced to close down after his Ballycastle
premises were badly damaged in a malicious fire.

Darren McBride's autoparts store was attacked by arsonists in the early hours
yesterday.

He blamed the rising tensions on the conflict caused by Roman Catholic
residents' groups' opposition to recent Loyal Order marches.

The attack came on the same day pipe bombs were left at two premises in the Co
Antrim town and only hours after the discovery of a bomb which could have caused
carnage among people attending the Auld Lammas Fair.

Mr McBride, 22, only opened the business in November with the help of Ledu and
the Prince's Trust.

He may now be facing the prospect of laying off his one full-time employee and a
new trainee who just started his first job.

Mr McBride may have been targeted because of the location of his business.

"I'm Protestant, but my business is in a predominantly Catholic area near the
town centre," he said.

He said the marching season had brought with it recurring conflict among locals.

"There was a mini-riot on the Twelfth of July over the marches because the
Catholic residents' groups did not want them to march."

He admitted it had been quiet since, but tensions had surfaced again last week
over opposition to a parade by members of the Royal Black Preceptory.

The businessman was also scathing in his criticism of those responsible for
planting Tuesday's bomb.

"I have three young children and I was down there with them at the fair.

"These people are absolutely sick."

The Red Hand Defenders, which often acts as a cover name for the UDA, admitted
responsibility for the pipe-bomb attacks.

Army explosives experts were called in to defuse the devices at the Marine Hotel
and a nearby pub.

DUP spokesman Ian Paisley jnr urged those behind the latest attacks to stop
immediately.

He said: "I don't think this sort of thing solves anything.

"It just heightens community tensions and creates more fear.

"I would appeal to people to stop it and find another way of making their
opinions known."

RUC Supt John Bustard issued an urgent appeal for local people and visitors to
the town to remain vigilant and to report any suspicious activity.

He said: "Ruthless people have once again sought to inflict carnage on the
people of Ballycastle by planting two separate bombs in the resort.

"The public should be under no illusion as to the reckless and indiscriminate
nature of these attacks as the devices were concealed in such a way as to make
their detection extremely difficult."

He said that anyone who noticed what they believed to be suspicious activity
should contact police in Ballycastle immediately on 028 2076 2312.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                August 31, 2001

Youths are quizzed on fire attack terror

BYLINE: CLAIRE HINDLEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 180 words



A SCHOOLBOY and another youth were being questioned today in connection with an
arson attack which left an elderly couple seriously injured.

The youngsters, aged 13 and 19, were arrested as part of the investigation into
the attack on the couple's home in Beech View, Hyde, and a series of other fires
in the area. It is believed a burning wheelie-bin was pushed against the only
doorway to their maisonette home.
   Lawrence Smith, 82, and his 76-year-old wife Mary suffered serious injuries
after they leaped to the ground to flee the flames tearing through their home.
     Mr Smith was treated in intensive care at Tameside Hospital for burns to
his face and lungs and suspected back injuries. Mrs Smith broke both her legs
and her pelvis in the fall.
    The fire was one of nine blazes to strike the district within a space of an
hour in the early hours of Wednesday morning.
    The two youths were arrested yesterday and held overnight at Stalybridge
Police Station. Detectives were due to continue questioning them today.


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ORDEAL .  .  Lawrence and Mary Smith were seriously injured escaping
the arson blaze at their home

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 1, 2001, Saturday

SHARK PRACTICE: A SUDDEN SPATE OF ATTACKS BY SHARKS HAS STRUCK TERROR INTO
FLORIDA'S TOURISTS THIS SUMMER. EXCEPT, THAT IS, AMONG THE THRILL-SEEKING FEW
WHO HAVE BEEN ACTIVELY INITIATING CLOSE ENCOUNTERS WITH THE CREATURES - AND,
ALLEGEDLY, ENCOURAGING THE ATTACKS BY DOING SO. THE RESULT? A FEROCIOUS ROW, AND
A HAIR-RAISING INVESTIGATIVE ASSIGNMENT FOR DAVID USBORNE...

BYLINE: David Usborne Swimmers come face-to-face with a shark Tim Calver

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1847 words


As Jeff Torode manoeuvred his scuba-diving boat out from its dock one recent
afternoon, he did the equivalent of those last-minute destination checks that
you sometimes get on aeroplanes. "We are on a shark dive today. Everyone does
know that, right? Anyone who needs to go back, say so now!" You would think that
every last one of us would have screamed to be let off. But no, we nodded at him
and smiled.

So there we were, 38 apparently sane souls heading out to the open ocean off the
coast of Florida in search of the one species of fish normal people would very
much like never to see, unless in an aquarium. There were some serious diving
folk fiddling ceaselessly with the tubes and valves on their oxygen bottles, and
then there were mums and dads and kids. There was Martin, 40, for example, a
teacher from Ramsgate, Kent, and an experienced diver. He had left his wife back
at the hotel, "checking my life insurance policy". But there was also Jacob,
from Fort Myers, who was 12.

Jacob, it turned out, had done this before and knew the drill. Once tied to our
buoy half a mile from the shore at Pompano Beach, just north of Fort Lauderdale,
we would all plop in the water and head to the sea- bed 15ft below. Jeff, the
skipper and part-owner of the South Florida Diving Headquarters, the scuba
diving outfit running the trip, would get everyone sitting in a semicircle to
wait for Scot. (Those not certified - me and one other guy - would stay on the
surface with snorkel gear.) Scot Dickerson was the shark-feeder, who would make
sure we got what we had come for - a close encounter with a shark. "I was scared
at first. But once you get down there, it's awesome," Jacob said, trying to
reassure me.

It was kind of the kid, but it didn't work. There are lots of ways to explore
the frontiers of your fear, and, frankly, I am not fond of any of them. I
remained especially baffled, however, by the appeal of shark- feeding, which has
become one of the fastest-growing attractions here in south Florida and in the
nearby Bahamas. Just recently, it has also turned into one of the most
controversial tourist activities. Florida has seen a spate of highly-publicised
shark attacks recently, and some people are beginning to see a connection
between the attacks and the suddenly popular shark-feeding safaris like the one
I was taking.

However, details of the debate, which has prompted some state politicians to try
to ban shark-feeding altogether, were not uppermost in my mind as I got into the
water. "Jeff, got the morphine on board?" one of the more macho divers piped up,
attempting morbid humour. Moments later, as I bobbed around and fretted about my
mask fogging up, Jeff appeared alongside me with interesting news. "Look,
there's one down there already," he said breezily. And with that he vanished
beneath the waves. There it was. The fearful outline of its fins and snout was
unmistakable. Silently cruising right underneath me was a grown nurse shark that
was perhaps eight feet long. I reacted in several ways. I started to giggle and
to breathe very fast. I was also overcome with a desperate need to pee in the
water, but wondered if I should. The merest whiff of urine, it occurred to me,
might send the sharks into a feeding frenzy. Above all, I started to wonder what
I would have done, had I been alone with that fish. The answer was obvious: I
would have thrashed about madly, screamed my lungs out and had a heart attack.

Nurse sharks are docile and rarely bother humans. Indeed, most species of shark
will leave us alone, unless we somehow antagonise or threaten them. "Humans are
not on their menu," was how Torode put it. The Great Whites are the obvious
exception. But right at that moment, none of that soothing science mattered to
me. Nor was I impressed with the statistic that says you are more likely to be
struck by lightning than eaten by a shark. My mind was filling with images from
Jaws, the 1975 horror epic by Steven Spielberg, with its awful, two-note score -
"Ta-duh, tah-duh" - and the slogan "Don't go in the water". I was in the water
already, and there was a shark right underneath me. No wonder I was giggling.

But then, instead of sheer panic, curiosity took hold of me. I forced my
breathing to slow down and turned my gaze below to watch Scot drawing five
sharks into the semicircle of divers. They came to him, obviously, because of
the food - bloody morsels of fish called chum, packed into a short PVC tube that
he held in his right hand. For 30 minutes he strung the sharks along, allowing
them only occasional slurps at the pipe. (Nurse sharks have blunt teeth and suck
the flesh from their victims - another Torode titbit that I had not found
entirely reassuring.) We had been instructed to avoid touching the sharks but,
of course, nearly everyone succumbed to the temptation to reach out and discover
what a shark feels like.

Up on the surface, looking down, we snorkellers remained mere spectators.
Shortly before finishing, however, Scot remembered us and brought the tube of
chum - and the sharks - up towards us. I dived down to meet them. And suddenly,
there I was, face to face with the largest of the sharks. Its eyes and mine seem
to lock for a second and, had I wanted to, I, too, could have touched it. But
suddenly I choked on a surge of adrenalin and rushed to the surface, lungs
bursting.

This summer seems to have been declared - almost by media fiat - the "Summer of
the Shark" (to borrow a Time magazine headline). It started on 6 July, when an
eight-year-old boy from Mississippi, Jessie Arbogast, was pulled under by a
shark in shallow water while playing on the beach in Florida. In a few,
horrifying seconds, the fish tore the boy's arm from his shoulder and took a
bite from one of his thighs. Drained of blood, he was helicoptered to a nearby
hospital only after an uncle wrestled with the shark and a park ranger finally
shot it in the head. His arm, retrieved from inside the shark's throat, was
reattached after hours of surgery. Jessie is home now, but still in a coma.

Meanwhile, new reports of shark attacks in Florida come in almost daily.
Officials in New Smyrna, near Daytona, this week ordered their beaches closed
for a second week in a row. No fewer than 20 people, mostly surfers, have
reported suffering shark bites at New Smyrna this year. Compared with what
happened to Jessie Arbogast, the attacks there have all been minor. Probably
blacktip and spinner sharks, chasing small fish in the shallows, were
responsible for what were mostly bites to people's feet, none of them very much
worse than nips from a dog.

But it has all added to the summer's shark hysteria. It may not even be true
that this year has been especially bad. (Florida has always topped the tables
when it comes to shark attacks. Of the 79 attacks on humans worldwide last year,
34 were in Florida.) But the perception has been created that it is. And
politicians are beginning to search for a reason. Some are looking no further
than Torode and the other shark- feeders.

The sharks, according to Charles Justice, a state representative who last week
submitted a draft bill that would make shark-feeding illegal in all of Florida,
are "associating humans with food". Indeed, he goes on, "the sound of boat
engines mean food for sharks now". You can easily see what he and a fast-growing
coalition of other interests who want the feedings banned are getting at. On the
whole, we agree that it is a bad idea to feed grizzly bears in America's
national parks, because it could encourage them to intrude on humans more often.
And bears can be very dangerous. So doesn't the same follow for sharks?

It should, says George Burgess, director of the International Shark Attack File
at the University of Florida, and a leading expert witness at recent hearings -
organised by the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission - on whether
or not shark-feeding should be outlawed. (Further hearings are planned for this
month.) Burgess stresses that most of the attacks happen when sharks mistake
human beings for other types of prey in murky waters or poor light. That would
be especially true of nurse sharks, the most docile of shark species. But
Burgess says that he is nonetheless "not a fan" of the feeding safaris. He has
recorded 24 occasions when participants in dives such as Torode's were wounded
by a shark (including, recently, one reporter for NBC television). He also notes
that the tours draw much higher than normal concentrations of sharks to areas
that happen to be very close to popular beaches. "The more people you put in the
water and the more sharks you put in the water, the greater the chances of them
meeting. And on occasion, the sharks either will grab the human by mistake, or
actually go after the human being as a food item."

However, Burgess does concede that there is unlikely to be a direct connection
between the shark tours, all centred near Fort Lauderdale and Miami, and the
attacks, which have mainly been either in Smyrna, 200 miles north, or Pensacola,
on the Gulf Coast. This is what Torode, back on his boat, the Aqua View, wanted
us to understand, too.

"Believe or not," he says, "this is not a shark frenzy that is going on right
now, but a media-frenzy that is going on." The point of excursions like his -
aside from earning him a living - is, he says, to "demystify some of the notions
that you might have about sharks and help you to put aside some of the stigma
there is out there about them, caused by Hollywood." Torode was especially
excoriating about Charles Justice and the others who are pushing to have him put
out of business. "We are just the scapegoats out here. The politicians are
saying, 'We are going to be the saviours, we are going to rescue Florida's
tourism and make it safe again.' Well, it's all bullshit."

It seems likely that the state, acting on whatever the Conservation Commission
eventually recommends, will at least impose strict new controls on shark
-feeding businesses and force them to seek sharks much further away from the
shore. That alone, Torode says, would be the end of shark- feeding for him,
because tourists with only limited diving experience would not be able to go
down any further.

But as the Aqua View made its way back to the dock, none of this mattered much
to us. We were grateful only that all limbs were intact and that the underwater
cameras had worked. George Burgess has since told me, however, that he considers
trips like Torode's more dangerous than even I had imagined. For one, he says,
you never know when a different kind of shark, or an eel, might join the
underwater picnic and be less polite about the presence of humans.

And then there is one thing that, for Burgess, is a "definite no-no". If you
have to go shark-feeding, he says, do it properly - by diving to the bottom. Do
not take part as a snorkeller. "You're on the surface of the water that way, and
they can come at you from any angle." Right. Thank you. Cue Jaws music again.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 6, 2001, Thursday

TERRORISED;
 MOB LAUNCHES BOMB ATTACK ON SCHOOLGIRLS

BYLINE: Deirdre Tynan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 159 words


THIS is what raw hate does to innocent children - and the scars could last a
lifetime.

Terrified and bewildered, these Catholic girls suffered a third day of trauma
yesterday as a pipe bomb was hurled at them by a loyalist hate mob.

The shrapnel device exploded 50 yards from Holy Cross Primary School in North
Belfast as they were escorted to lessons.

Their tearful faces contorted by fear, panic and hysteria outraged even the
hardest of hardliners.

PUP Assembly member Billy Hutchinson said: "I'm ashamed to be called a loyalist
after seeing these girls attacked. The terror in their faces was unbelievable.
It sickened me to the pit of my stomach."

Psychologist Christine Puckering said the experience could leave the girls with
a lifetime of torment.

Last night Secretary of State Dr John Reid flew back from his holidays to deal
with the crisis.

He said: "What we have seen in the past few days is pure barbarism."

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 6, 2001, Thursday

THE BOMB RUN;
 SCHOOLGIRLS' TERROR AS MOB LAUNCH SHRAPNEL ATTACK

BYLINE: Alexandra Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 104 words

HIGHLIGHT: PANIC: Terrified girl is dragged to safety after blast yesterday


A PIPE bomb dragged Ulster's school "gauntlet of hate" to a savage new low
yesterday.

The shrapnel device exploded 50 yards from Catholic primary schoolgirls as they
were escorted to lessons through a baying mob of loyalists.

Already traumatised by two days of hate-filled confrontation the youngsters
wept, screamed and clung to their parents in fear.

The appalling scenes outside Holy Cross school in divided North Belfast so
sickened convicted sectarian killer Billy Hutchinson, he said: "I'm ashamed to
be called a loyalist."

Four police were hurt. Last night, three men were being questioned.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 6, 2001, Thursday

TERRORISED;
 BOMB ATTACK YARDS FROM CHILDREN

BYLINE: Alexandra Williams In Belfast

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 472 words

HIGHLIGHT: BEWILDERED: A girl clings to her parent, another weeps and a third is
comforted yesterday as a loyalist mob plumbs new depths by hurling a bomb 50
yards from the youngsters; PANIC-STRICKEN: The faces of Catholic children like
these yesterday so disgusted hardliner Billy Hutchinson, he declared: "It
sickened me - I'm ashamed to be called a loyalist"


THIS is what raw hate does to innocent children - and the scars could last a
lifetime.

Terrified and bewildered, these Catholic girls suffered a third day of trauma
yesterday as a pipe bomb was hurled by a loyalist hate mob while the youngsters
were being escorted to their Belfast school.

The children's tearful faces contorted by fear, panic and hysteria outraged even
the hardest of hardliners.

Convicted sectarian killer Billy Hutchinson, an Assemblyman for the Progressive
Unionist Party which speaks for the paramilitary UVF, said last night: "I'm
ashamed to be called a loyalist after seeing these girls attacked.

"The terror in their faces was unbelievable. It sickened me."

The third day of hate around Holy Cross primary school began relatively
peacefully with fewer loyalist protesters hurling abuse.

But as parents and children walked up bitterly divided Ardoyne Road, protected
by a huge security operation, large stones were thrown.

As police surged towards protesters the pipe bomb was hurled at officers,
exploding 50 yards from the frightened procession. A huge hunk of shrapnel was
hurled into a neighbouring street.

Four RUC men and a police alsatian were hurt. The loyalist terror group Red Hand
Defenders claimed responsibility.Last night, three men were being questioned.

Ulster Secretary Dr John Reid, who has cut short his holiday, branded the savage
attack "barbaric".

Philomena Flood who was escorting her daughter Erin, seven, said: "It was
absolute chaos.

"As the bomb went off, we just ran around in circles. There were terrified
children everywhere. These people were saying we were a disgrace for taking our
children to school through this. Who are the disgrace now? The world can see
them for what they are."

Another mother who braved the mob with her daughter said: "These people want a
child's life, any child. I don't know if I can go through this again but I don't
want them to think they've won.

"Even if we win a moral victory, is it worth a child's life?"

Father Aidan Troy, chairman of the school's board of governors, said: "This time
these people have plumbed new depths." The RUC said: "Whoever threw this must
have known they were endangering innocent lives."

Last night the governors met to discuss locking the front gates so parents have
to use a rear entrance.

Psychologist Christine Puckering, who works at the Royal Hospital for Sick
Children in Glasgow, warned: "Enormous damage is being caused.

"Many of these children will have traumatic stress.

"If problems are not treated they could continue for the rest of that person's
life."

A 32-YEAR-old woman was charged with murder yesterday after Thomas McDonald, 16,
was knocked off his bicycle by a car in North Belfast. She is expected to appear
in court today.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               September 7, 2001

NORTHWEST - Girl's terror after petrol bomb attack

BYLINE: By Ciaran O'Neill:coneill@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 246 words


A LONDONDERRY teenager today recalled the terrifying moment when she thought she
was going to be burned alive after being struck by a petrol bomb.

The 14-year-old was hit by the device at 7pm yesterday as she walked to her home
in the Fountain estate, the only remaining Protestant area on the city's West
Bank.

One of her trainers was set on fire but the young girl managed to shake off her
shoe before the flames spread to the rest of her clothing.

The petrol bomb was thrown from nearby Bennett Street over a security fence
surrounding the Fountain.

Fears were rising today that it could spark a repeat of sectarian attacks
between rival gangs which plagued the area last year.

The young girl, who was too afraid to be named, was also among a group of
Protestant teenagers attacked outside a cinema in Derry last month.

She said she was badly shaken by yesterday's attack.

"When the petrol bomb landed, I started to run but one of my friends shouted,
'you're on fire'," she said.

"I saw the flames on my shoe and petrol on my trousers. I thought the fire was
going to spread to my clothes but I managed to shake off the shoe and run away."

Fountain community worker Jeanette Warke said she was appalled by the attack

"This young girl is very lucky to be alive," said Mrs Warke.

She highlighted that the incident followed a number of petrol bombs being thrown
into the estate from neighbouring nationalist areas last week.


LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 7, 2001, Friday

TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 112 words


A NORTH Wales teenager was detained for two years yesterday following a
terrifying attack on a woman walking home alone at night.

Wayne John Hudson, 18, had denied indecent assault but was convicted at Mold
Crown Court last month. Hudson was sent to a young offenders' institution and
the period of his supervision on licence was extended to three years.

Judge John Rogers QC also ordered he should remain on the sex offenders'
register for the next ten years.

Hudson, of Pont-yr-Afon, Penycae, initially denied being near the woman but
after a DNA test on blood found on the woman's top - she had bitten him during
the struggle - he changed his story.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          September 8, 2001, Saturday

GIRL ALMOST SET ALIGHT IN ATTACK;
 DEATH FEARS AFTER LATEST TERROR IN FOUNTAIN

BYLINE: Ian Starrett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 458 words

HIGHLIGHT: PETROL BOMBED: Londonderry's Fountain estate


A 14-year-old Londonderry schoolgirl was recovering yesterday after being almost
turned into a human torch.

A petrol bomb, thrown into the Fountain estate from the Bennett Street area,
exploded at her feet as she walked with two other children.

Just over a fortnight ago, she was one of five children from the loyalist
district who were badly beaten by a gang of youths who ambushed them as they
left a cinema in the city centre.

A neighbour told the News Letter yesterday: "She was walking home, chatting and
laughing with two boys, when the petrol bomb came flying over the fence.

"Luckily, the two boys saw it and shouted to her 'You're on fire'.

"She is still very badly shocked today and her mother is in a terrible state
about it. This is the third time this wee girl has been attacked."

The child's clothes were scorched but she wasn't njured.

She said yesterday: "All of a sudden, I just seen this fire around me so I ran.
One of my friends said, 'Quick you're on fire, you're on fire.' So I started
shouting out loud.

"Luckily enough we got the flames out in time but my trainers were all covered
in petrol. I was angry and I'm all shook up about what has happened."

The RUC said yesterday that, about five minutes after the petrol bombing of the
girl - shortly after 7pm on Thursday night - a second device was thrown in the
Lecky Road flyover area but burnt itself out.

Sinn Fein Deputy Mayor Peter Anderson said that such thuggish behaviour cannot
be justified.

He called on community leaders in the Bogside to redouble their efforts to
prevent further attacks on the Fountain estate.

He said that the only word he could use to describe those responsible for the
latest attack was morons.

"I use the word in the plural because I am sure that like most bullies they hunt
in packs. I'm sure that more than one person has done this. They are absolute
morons.

"How can anybody can justify throwing petrol bombs at any time of the day, night
or whatever?

"We could have had a fatality here. The people who have done this have got to
ask themselves - what are they trying to prove or what cause are they trying to
better?"

Foyle MLA William Hay demanded a meeting with Northern Ireland's Security
Minister about the sectarian attacks.

He described the petrol bomb attack on the girl as "a serious development".

The DUP politician added: "I spoke to the police this morning and I now have
sent a letter off asking for a meeting with the Northern Ireland Security
Minister."

"This matter needs to be addressed - and very, very quickly.

"I am also saying very clearly that, if we don't address the security problems
in the Fountain,we are going to have a serious fatality."

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 10, 2001, Monday

Israelis killed in new bomb terror Suicide attack heightens fear on day of
widespread violence, Alan Philps reports from Jerusalem

BYLINE: By Alan Philps

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 617 words

A 48-YEAR-OLD man who had eluded police for 10 days blew himself up at an
Israeli railway station yesterday as part of a three-pronged Palestinian
assault.

The appearance of a middle-aged suicide bomber - 20 years older than any
previous such attacker - spread a new form of terror and despair among Israelis.

Three Israelis were killed at the railway station in Nahariya, near the Lebanese
border, and two in a drive-by shooting on the West Bank. Two Palestinians were
blown up by their own explosives.

Police had been looking for the suicide bomber, Mohammed Shaker el-Hobeishi, a
father of 10, after he disappeared from his village in northern Israel.

As he waited at the railway station with a package full of explosives packed
with nails and metal scrap, he was spotted by many people but did not arouse
suspicion due to his age.

Nir Harel was one of dozens of soldiers who got off the train from Tel Aviv at
the end of their weekend leave. He said: "I bumped into this man who had a big
bag. I said sorry, and moved on.

"Seconds later there was an enormous bang and I was thrown to the ground. I was
very lucky."

The bomber waited by a station kiosk until the train pulled in, clearly aware
that many soldiers would be on it at the beginning of the Israeli working week.

Yaacov Borovsky, the police chief for northern Israel, said: "He saw the train
coming. He simply ran and blew himself up."

The deadly wave of Palestinian attacks - three in five hours - tipped the
national mood in Israel, convincing many people that the 11-month-old conflict
is about to enter a new and even more dangerous phase.

"I'm looking for hope, but there isn't any," said Deena Yisrael, a Jerusalem
teacher. "The saddest thing is that I am not even shocked any more at three
attacks in one day."

The prime minister, Ariel Sharon, and his government must now make some
difficult decisions.

Last night, the security cabinet was discussing an army plan to establish a
series of buffer zones along the border between Israel and the West Bank, which
is currently porous and ill-marked.

However, no one believes that a no-go area is going to stop every Palestinian
bomber who wants to cause carnage inside Israel. This is particularly true now
that some of Israel's million-strong Arab minority, who used to keep out of
trouble, have begun to throw themselves into the Palestinian struggle.

El-Hobeishi is the first Israeli Arab to blow himself up for the Palestinian
cause.

The proposed Maginot Line of closed military areas would be seen inside Israel
as a line of defence. But it makes little military sense.

The army, in addition to patrolling the buffer zones, would still have to
protect thousands of Jewish settlers who live in the occupied territories on the
other side of the buffer zones.

Mr Sharon has for months relied on military and economic pressure, along with
the urgings of foreign governments, to bring the Palestinian leader, Yasser
Arafat, to end the uprising. The net result has been nil.

Every Israeli military strike or day of blockade of the Palestinian territories
seems to act as a recruiting sergeant for the extremist organisations Hamas and
Islamic Jihad.

The next step would be for the government to move to outright confrontation.
This would involve formally declaring that Mr Arafat was no longer considered a
partner for peace, but rather the head of a hostile organisation.

The consequence would be that Mr Arafat, who still travels regularly around the
world, would not be allowed back to his headquarters in Gaza and would be forced
back into exile.

It would be a drastic step, but one that comes closer with every day of
violence.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 11, 2001, Tuesday

JETS SLAM INTO SKY SCRAPERS;
 HUNDREDS FEARED DEAD IN TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Special Correspondent DOUBLE HORROR: With one of the towers smoking, the
second jet swings towards the skyscraper (inset) moments later, the horrific
impact

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 568 words


TWO jet airliners crashed into the World Trade Centre in New York within minutes
of each other today.

Witnesses were just describing the horror of the first impact when another
passenger plane slammed into the smoke-engulfed building.

A twin-engined jet liner first crashed into one of the twin towers where
hundreds of people were working and embedded itself in the top of the building.

Hundreds were feared to be dead, and hundreds more injured. Witnesses said the
plane appeared to hit one of the skyscraper's twin towers about 20 floors from
the top. Minutes later the top of one of the twin towers began exploding.

Huge clouds of smoke could be seen from miles around Manhattan when minutes
later, a second small plane crashed into the other of the twin towers.

The FBI was said to be investigating reports of plane hijacking before World
Trade Centre crashes and there was speculation that terrorists could be behind
the attacks.

The first plane crashed into the north side of the tower at 0848 New York
time(1358 BST).

An eyewitness said the plane appeared to hit one of the skyscraper's twin towers
at about the 80th floor.

The witness said he thought the plane was still embedded in the smashed and
burning building.

An eye witness Jeanne Yurman, said she was watching TV when she heard what she
thought was a sonic boom.

There were reports that passengers were on board the first plane.

The first crash happened shortly before 9 am US time and the second some 18
minutes later.

The towers were struck by bombers in February 1993.

Large holes were visible in sides of the 110 storey buildings, landmark twin
towers.

The tops of the twin towers were obscured by the smoke.

Thousands of pieces of what appeared to be office paper came drifting over
Brooklyn, about three miles from the tower, one witness said.

Later an aircraft crashed near the Pentagon, the US Defence Department HQ, and
the the White House was evacuated amid threats of terrorism.

President George Bush said: "We have had a national tragedy. Two aeroplanes have
crashed into the World Trade Centre in an apparent terrorist attack on our
country."

Witnesses were just describing the horror of the first impact when, 18 minutes
later, another passenger plane crashed into one of the twin towers that dominate
the New York business quarter's skyline.

CNN had video footage of the second crash.

The towers were struck by bombers in February 1993.

"The plane was coming in low and it looked like it hit at a slight angle," said
Sean Murtagh, a CNN vice president.

Large holes were visible in sides of the 110 storey buildings, landmark twin
towers.

The tops of the twin towers were obscured by the smoke.

Thousands of pieces of what appeared to be office paper came drifting over
Brooklyn, about three miles from the tower, one witness said.

An eyewitness said the first plane appeared to hit one of the skyscraper's twin
towers about 20 floors from the top.

A senior government official said the FBI is pursuing reports that one or both
of the planes were hijacked and that the crashes may have been the result of a
suicide mission.

Both planes, twin engined small jet liners, remained embedded in one of the twin
towers with smoke and flames pouring out of the gaping holes.

CNBC television said there were at least a thousand injured.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                               September 11, 2001

World is stunned by U.S. terror attacks

BYLINE: by Hugh Dougherty, newsdesk@derbytelegraph.co.uk

SECTION: CRIME: TERRORISM

LENGTH: 528 words


TERRORISTS on suicide missions crashed two hijacked jet airliners into the
110-storey World Trade Centre in New York within minutes of each other today.
There was no immediate news of what was feared to be multiple deaths and
casualties. It was thought the death total would run into many hundreds.

Then an aircraft crashed into the Pentagon, the U.S. Defence Department's HQ in
Washington, and the White House was evacuated after the Security Service
received a "credible threat" against the President's official home.

The State Department was also evacuated.

All airports in the U.S. were closed and Wall Street was shut down.

One of the planes that crashed into the Trade Centre was an American Airlines
Boeing 767 that was hijacked after taking off from Boston.

Later, one of the towers of the World Trade Centre collapsed. A witness said
that he saw bodies falling from the towers and people jumping out.

President George Bush, in Florida, said: "We have had a national tragedy. Two
aeroplanes have crashed into the World Trade Centre in an apparent terrorist
attack on our country."

Witnesses were just describing the horror of the first impact when, 18 minutes
later, another passenger plane crashed into one of the twin towers that dominate
the New York business quarter's skyline.

CNN had video footage of the second crash.

The towers were struck by bombers in February, 1993.

"The plane was coming in low and it looked like it hit at a slight angle," said
Sean Murtagh, a CNN vice-president.

Large holes were visible in sides of the 110-storey buildings, landmark twin
towers.

The tops of the twin towers were obscured by the smoke.

Thousands of pieces of what appeared to be office paper came drifting over
Brooklyn, about three miles from the tower, one witness said.

An eye-witness said that the first plane appeared to hit one of the skyscraper's
twin towers about 20 floors from the top.

He said he thought the plane was still embedded in the smashed and burning
building.

Another said that it appeared that the first plane lined up on the tower before
crashing.

Jeanne Yurman told CNN she was watching TV when she heard what she thought was a
sonic boom. "I thought it was Concorde," she said.

In 1945, an Army Air Corps B-25, a twin-engine bomber, crashed into the 79th
floor of the Empire State Building in dense fog.

Both planes, twin -engined small jet liners, remained embedded in one of the
twin towers with smoke and flames pouring out of the gaping holes.

President Bush was in Sarasota, Florida, reading to children in a classroom full
of children when his chief of staff, Andrew Card, whispered into his ear.

The president briefly turned sombre before he resumed reading.

Before flying back to Washington for an emergency meeting of the National
Security Council, he ordered all resources to go and help the victims and "hunt
down and find those folks who committed this act".

Abu Dhabi television reported that it had received a call from the Democratic
Front for the Liberation of Palestine claiming responsibility for crashing two
planes into the WTC buildings. But a DFLP denied it carried out the acts.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 11, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: 12m sq ft destroyed in World Trade Center disaster

BYLINE: Alex Catalano

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 279 words


The World Trade Centre comprised a complex of seven office buildings in New
York's financial district just a stone's throw from Wall Street.

The two towers, 1WTC and 2 WTC, were New York's tallest at 110 stories each, and
the third tallest skyscrapers in the world.

Together, the towers contained around 9m sq ft. Overall, the complex totalled
1.12m sq m (12m sq ft), seven times the size of the Empire State Building.

The WTC complex had its own postcode, subway station and a 39,668 sq m
(427,000-sq ft) underground shopping mall. The complex housed around 500 firms,
with a high proportion of foreign banks and big financial groups like Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter, Lehman Brothers and Bank of America. In 1981, an 818-room
Marriot hotel was the last addition to the main WTC complex.

This April, New York real estate firm Silverstein Properties and Australian
shopping centre group Westfield paid the New York and New Jersey Port Authority
$3US.2bn for a 99 year lease on the two twin towers and two of the smaller
buildings, plus the shopping mall.

Silverstein, a private company, already owns some 743,200 sq m (8m sq ft) of
mainly New York real estate, including 7 WTC, a 48-storey tower built
subsequently on a site across the street from the main complex.

The bid was a joint venture but the office and retail elements were leased
separately by the two partners. Westfield was responsible for the shopping mall,
and is thought to have planned to add between 13,935 sq m (150,000 sq ft) and
23,225 sq m (250,000 sq ft). There were 75 stores and restaurants in the centre,
which was one of the highest-earning in America with sales of more than $900US
per sq ft.

EGi News 11/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 11, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: London Stock Exchange is evacuated as market plummets

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 434 words


The London Stock Exchange has been evacuated.

A spokesman for the LSE said: "In response to events unfolding in the US, the
LSE is evacuating Exchange Tower as a precaution. We have contingency
arrangements in place which means that we will continue to run the market
through to the close.''

European shares plummeted following the World Trade Centre plane crashes. By
mid-afternoon, the FTSE 100 Index was off 219.6 points at 4,814.6, while all the
European markets plunged.

The New York Stock Exchange was evacuated and trading was cancelled, possibly
for the entire day.

The World Trade Centre and nearby World Financial Centre were also evacuated.
Both are home to many brokerages and investment firms.

Jeremy Batstone at NatWest Stockbrokers said: "The London market was up around
60 to 70 points before - now look at it.''

Tom Hougaard, trader at Financial Spreads, the financial bookmaker, said: "Its
an absolute disaster. I'm telling you it is really bad. It's a really
precipitous drop. When the US opens it will dive.''

Mike Lenhoff at broker Gerrard said: "Its a disaster. Its throws the whole
market background into chaos. The Pentagon has been bombed and nobody really
knows the American policy response, which I think is going to be pretty severe,
once they feel confident about who is responsible."

"I don't think one can talk sensibly about market behaviour. Just as we're
talking, the UK market fell by 20-30 points - these are pretty fast market
conditions. Banks, insurers will fall the most - anything that's exposed. Oil
stocks will do well and oil prices are rising. The oil price is now almost 30
dollars a barrel compared with 27.50 dollars earlier this morning.''

David Page, economist at City stockbroker Investec, said: "The futures index in
the US has been trading sporadically, the Dow futures index was down 330 after
being up 60 so it's lost 400 points because of this.''

"Consumer sentiment has taken a huge knock here as people want to get out of
equities and into safe stocks and bonds.''

In London, shares in airlines, banks and insurers dived. British Airways, BAA,
Ryanair, and EasyJet all fell heavily, while among the banks, Lloyds TSB,
Barclays, HSBC and Royal Bank of Scotland dived.

Insurers including Prudential, Royal & Sun Alliance and CGNU slumped. Lloyds of
London, the insurance market said it would not comment on the potential cost of
insurance of buildings damaged.

Credit Suisse First Boston, which has an office in the World Trade Centre, said
all its staff were safely evacuated.

A spokeswoman said it was not yet known if any Britons were among them.

EGi News 11/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 11, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: UK Agents voice shock at events in New York

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 172 words


US-owned UK agents voiced their shock at events today in the US.

Robert Farnes, chairman of US-owned CB Hillier Parker, said the London office
had tried to get in touch with colleagues at its parent company.

He said: "We haven't managed to get in touch with our offices in the US as yet,
as all the lines are down."

Chris Tollast, a director in Insignia Richard Ellis's City office, said: "It's
still pretty chaotic. It's a dreadful event. We have a lot of clients and
colleagues that will be involved and from London our thoughts are with them. We
advise people in the World Trade Center towers and we will have clients and
friends that will be involved. We are immensely concerned."

Colin Hargreaves of Healey & Baker, which is owned by US broker Cushmans, said
he and his colleagues were "shocked and horrified at the current events. We have
been unable to get in contact with our US colleagues."

John Travers, head of H&B had been due to leave for New York this afternoon, but
all company travel has been cancelled.

EGi News 11/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 11, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: Hijacked planes smash into World Trade Centre

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 293 words


The twin towers of the World Trade Center have collapsed following an apparent
suicide terrorist attack. The attack came at about 9am New York time.

Four planes were hi-jacked from Logan Airport, Boston. Two planes flew into the
World Trade Center Towers about five minutes apart.

It's believed each of the planes carried 150 passengers. More than 50,000 people
worked in the World Trade Center.

In Washington, part of the Pentagon have collapsed following a similar plane
attack. US news wires are now reporting that another hi-jacked plane is flying
towards Washington DC.

The US White House, the Treasury, all Federal Government and UN buildings have
been evacuated.

In London, the Stock Exchange has been evacuated and Canary Wharf is now being
evacuated. Israel is evacuating all embassies across the world.

Built in the 1970s, the World Trade Center's two towers were 110 stories tall
with 40,000 floorplates, around 10m sq ft in total. They housed over 500
international companies, including the Bank of America, and included an
underground station. Lehman Brothers occupied 10,405 sq m (112,000 sq ft) at the
towers and earlier this year signed for a further 89,239 sq m (960,500 sq ft).

Two other skyscrapers, the World Financial Center developed by Olympia & York,
are close by.

Five months ago, Australian shopping specialist Westfield paid nearly $800m for
a 99-year lease on the shopping mall at the base of one of the towers. The World
Trade Center is owned by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which
has been trying to sell them. The two towers were put on the market last year.

Around 150,000 people pass through the buildings each day.

The Foreign Office has issued the following emergency telephone number: 020 7
008 0000.

EGi News 11/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 11, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: London faces up to security threat

BYLINE: Robert Gibson

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 92 words


Key buildings in the City, including the Stock Exchange and the seat of
insurance trading at Lloyd's of London, have been evacuated.

Other financial institutions are retaining key trading personnel but are
allowing non-essential staff to go home.

A spokesman for the City of London police said that they had not initiated any
emergency procedures in the City.

The police spokesman said they are monitoring the situation closely, with
security managers of key buildings being kept informed by email and pager alerts
as the situation progresses.

EGi News 11/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 11, 2001

Four injured as Israel attacks 'nest of Palestinian terror'

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 123 words


ISRAELI tanks today rolled up to the edges of a city described by the government
as a "nest of terrorism", Palestinian-ruled Jenin in the West Bank.

At least four Palestinians were seriously wounded during the operation, which
the army said was an "encirclement" designed to prevent more suicide bombers
reaching Israel. On Saturday an Israeli Arab bomber killed three Israelis in the
northern town of Nahariya, an attack which prime minister Ariel Sharon's office
said was carried out "under the guidance of terrorist activists from Jenin".

It was not immediately clear what effect the Israeli incursion would have on
hopes for truce talks between foreign minister Shimon Peres and Palestinian
president Yasser Arafat.


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ISRAELI TANKS SURROUND JENIN, SAID TO BE A BASE FOR PALESTINIAN SUICIDE
ATTACKS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                          September 11, 2001, Tuesday

WORLD'S WORST TERROR ATTACK;
 TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 680 words


THOUSANDS of people were feared dead this afternoon after two hijacked airliners
were flown into the twintowered World Trade Centre in New York.

Many more were believed to have died in a second attack when a plane was flown
into the Pentagon US military base at the Pentagon in Washington.

The first plane, a hijacked United Airlines 767 plunged into the side of the
110-storey World Trade Centre at 9am New York time.

Eighteen minutes later a second United Airlines plane, believed to be a 737,
ploughed into the second tower.

More than 50,000 people work in the two buildings - one of which collapsed
within an hour of the attack.

Twenty minutes later the second tower collapsed.

Early reports suggested a Palestinian terror group had claimed reponsibility for
the attack, although this was later denied.

The first plane had been hijacked at Boston, and the second from New Jersey.

Witnesses watched in horror and disbelief as the first plane flew towards the
tower and deliberately crashed into it - 20 floors from the top.

In identical fashion, the second plane flew into the tower next door.

Wthin minutes the double inferno was spreading upwards and downwards in both
buildings.

Witnesses reported seeing people falling from the windows to their deaths rather
than be burned alive.

In the wake of the carnage all flights to the US were being diverted to Canada.

Within an hour of the New York attack a third plane was flown into the Pentagon.
Details of casualties were not known.

Soon after the attack President George Bush went on national television to say
the atrocity was a clear terrorist attack and vowed to hunt down those
responsible.

It was the biggest ever terror attack in peacetime.

There were also reports of a third explosion at the Pentagon, the American
military centre in Washington and a third hijacking. The White House was also
evacuated.

Britain was also put on security alert, amid fears that the terrorists were
planning further attacks.

The grounding of all flights was being considered.

Later this afternoon the Canary Wharf tower in London's docklands was evacuated.

The first explosion happned at 9am New York time when the first plane, believed
to be a Boeing 767 was flown into the World Trade Centre building 20 floors from
the top.

Soon afterwards a 737 plunged into the building immediately next door at 300mph.

One witness, Jeanne Yurman, told CNN television she was watching TV when she
heard what she thought was a sonic boom. "I thought it was Concorde, " she said.

Smoke was pouring out of two sides of the top floors of the building.

Large holes were visible in sides of the 110storey buildings, landmark twin
towers.

The tops of the twin towers were obscured by the smoke.

Thousands of pieces of what appeared to be office paper came drifting over
Brooklyn, about three miles from the tower, one witness said.

The double attack happened when the towers were packed with staff who had just
arrived for work.

Within minutes smoke was billowing from both buildings as the inferno spread
both upwards and downwards.

At one point the press agency Associated Press telephoned the trade centre to be
told:

"Help us we are dying."

As emergency services tried deperately to reach survivors the FBI confirmed they
were treating the attack as "foul play".

Workers from surrounding buildings were evacuated moments before the towers
collapsed.

US President George Bush went on national television soon afterwards saying: "In
an apparent terrorist act on our country two planes have crashed into the World
Trade Centre.

I have spoken to the Vice President and the director of the FBI and have ordered
the full resources of the Federal government to go towards helping the victims
and their families.

"A full scale investigation has been ordered into finding those who committed
this act.

"Terrorism against our nation we will not stand."

In February 1993, terrorist bombers attacked the World Trade Centre, killing six
people.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Plane two seconds before impact

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                          September 11, 2001, Tuesday

SEPTEMBER 11 2001. . . REMEMBER THE DATE;
 TERRORIST ATTACK ON AMERICA

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 17 words


The infamous day that is destined to open a new and frightening chapter in the
world's history

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STREETS OF FEAR: Rescue personnel in Liberty Street after the first
explosion at the New York World Trade Centre. Soon after, the horror continued
with a second crash OUTRAGE IN THE SKY: Smoke and fire surround the upper floors
of the World Trade Centre this afternoon after the second plane crashed into the
New York building

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Screen International

                           September 11, 2001 Tuesday

Toronto Festival halted by terror attacks in US

SECTION: ARTICLE; Categories.Industry / Corporate

LENGTH: 119  words



HIGHLIGHT: The Toronto International Film Festival was today (Tuesday Sept 11)
abandoned following the terrorist attacks in the neighbouring US.


The Toronto International Film Festival was today (Tuesday Sept 11) abandoned
following the terrorist attacks in the neighbouring US.

The cancellation may be both a practical measure and a mark of respect for the
dead and injured. The US has closed its borders to Canada and Mexico restricting
the movement of festival delegates and film prints. Air transport in and out of
Canada has been made harder by trans-Atlantic air traffic chaos and congestion
at Canadian airports created by the grounding of US bound flights.

Statements are expected to be made by festival organisers later today.

Screen International extends its sincerest sympathies to all its friends and
colleagues in the US following today's tragic events.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Screen International


                            Copyright 2001 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                          September 11, 2001, Tuesday

THOUSANDS FEARED DEAD IN NEW YORK TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Greg Lewis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 301 words


TERRORISTS launched a bloody and brutal assault on the American nation today
hijacking three planes and smashing them into the World Trade Centre and the
Pentagon.

Thousands were feared dead and injured in the suicide attacks, which caused one
of the 110-storey World Trade Centre (WTC) towers to collapse into the streets
of New York.

A stunned US President George Bush promised a "full-scale investigation to hunt
down and find those folks who committed this act.

"Terrorism against our nation will not stand, " he said.

The scenes of unbelievable destruction were thought to have been caused by
Middle Eastern terrorists.

Abu Dhabi television reported it had received a call from the Democratic Front
for the Liberation of Palestine claiming responsibility for crashing two planes
into the twin WTC towers overlooking New York harbour.

The West Wing of the White House was evacuated after the attack on the Pentagon
in Washington minutes later.

Half an hour later a second explosion rocked the Washington building.

The building was later hit by a third explosion.

The first attack on the WTC came just before 9am local time (2pm UK time) when a
jet airliner smashed high into one of the WTC towers from the south.

About 18 minutes later, as witnesses described the horror, a second airliner
flew in from the same direction, hitting the other tower.

Casualties were expected to run into thousands.

Joe Trachtenberg told CNN that he was watching the scene from a high point on
his building when the second WTC crash took place about 18 minutes later.

"The first tower was smoking hard. Then there was another plane, and before we
knew, it just kamikaze went straight into the other tower. There was a mass
explosion and windows flying. It was horrible."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

TERROR FROM THE SKIES: ATTACKS SPARK MARKETS CHAOS

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 579 words

HIGHLIGHT: DAY OF SORROW: flags fly at half-mast at the Liberty Science Center
in Jersey City, N.J. as smoke billows from a fire at the World Trade Center in
New York yesterday


YESTERDAY'S brutal terrorist attack in New York struck the world's financial
heart, sending shudders through stock markets and fear into bankers.

The New York Stock Exchange, located just round the corner from the World Trade
Center, was evacuated and trading was cancelled.

The US Nasdaq exchange was also closed and a spokesperson said: "Our thoughts
and prayers are with the victims of this tragic disaster and the families they
leave behind."

Other US exchanges suspended or cancelled trading, and among the exchanges
around the world which were open, panic prevailed with share values plunging.

The FTSE 100 registered its biggest one-day percentage fall since 1987, as
pounds 67 billion was wiped off share prices. The Index closed at 4746, down
287.7 points on the day.

European bourses also dipped, with banks and insurance shares diving, while oil
stocks soared.

In London, the London Stock Exchange was evacuated as a precaution, although
shares, which are traded electronically, continued to be dealt until the usual
close of trading at 4.30pm.

City workers huddled round TVs as the news unfolded.

Lorenzo Codogno, head of Euro Zone Research at the Bank of America, said: "The
reaction was immediate. Everybody dropped what they were doing and followed what
was happening on TV.

"We are all concerned about what is happening. The main feeling is one of
disbelief."

Harm van Berkum, a Dutch lawyer working in London with Loyens & Loeff, said: "It
looks like it is very well orchestrated in the sense that it seems that they
have first taken major hits, then got everyone's attention, while they focused
on what's happened afterwards."

In the tiny pub where he and his colleagues had crowded in to watch the news ,
crowds gasped as they watched footage of the moment the second plane hit the
World Trade Center.

Mr van Berkum said: "I have never seen something like that before. It is
terrible."

His colleague, Eric Brilman, 28, from Rotterdam, said: "It is unbelievable. My
first reaction was just horror. It is awful.

"It is more like something you expect to see in films in the most imaginative
Hollywood scripts, not in real life.

"If you did see it in a film, you probably wouldn't believe it."

As workers in London's Square Mile left their offices for the day, two bankers
told of the terrifying moment they heard the news.

Adrian Donohue, 27, from Sydney, Australia, said he had received an e-mail from
a friend working in a bank near the World Trade Center.

He said: "One of our colleagues e-mailed us and said: 'We are evacuating ...'.

"I immediately checked on the Internet and just came down here straight away as
we realised what had happened.

"The reaction was just one of disbelief. We were watching when the two towers
collapsed. It is just a shock."

Mr Donohue had been working on the eighth floor of Dashwood House when he heard
the news of the attacks.

"We all immediately came down here to watch the news in the pub. It is a lot
safer."

Outside Liverpool Street Station, dozens crowded round newspaper vendors to buy
the first editions carrying the news.

Their boards read: "Thousands feared dead in New York terror attack."

One City banker said: "People are gathering around anyone with a TV. The mood is
definitely sombre."

Another banker said: "Any bar with a TV screen is jam packed with worried
bankers with their eyes glued to the news bulletins."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

TERROR FROM THE SKIES: ATTACKS WOULD HAVE TAKEN MANY YEARS OF PLANNING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 203 words


THE devastating terrorist attacks in the United States could have been years in
the planning, a UK aviation expert believes.

Those involved may have been airport staff who were "sleepers" - terrorists
prepared to bide their time before striking, said Kieran Daly, editor of the Air
Transport Intelligence Internet news service.

He went on: "This co-ordinated operation was so sophisticated, so complex and
appears to have been so successful that it would have taken a colossal amount of
planning.

"People might have infiltrated into aviation systems years ago and then merely
waited to ensure that all the attacks worked."

Mr Daly added: "You have to accept there is always a degree of risk when it
comes to the recruiting of people involved in aviation.

"In order for an airport to operate, hundreds of people have to have access to
aircraft. There are such people as cleaners and baggage handlers, among others.

"At the end of the day it is very close to impossible to ensure that you can
never have a terrorist incident."

He said that it was just not practical, nor was it socially acceptable, to
exclude people of certain ethnic origins, from applying for and taking airport
jobs.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

TERROR FROM THE SKIES: BLOODY HISTORY OF ATTACKS ON AMERICANS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 452 words

HIGHLIGHT: DISASTER: in December, 1988, a Pan Am Boeing 747 exploded over;
Lockerbie, Scotland, on a flight from London


OCTOBER 12, 2000: Terrorist bombing kills 17 US sailors aboard the USS Cole as
it refuelled in Yemen's port of Aden. US says Saudi exile Osama bin Laden is
named as the prime suspect.

AUGUST 7, 1998: Car bombs explode outside US embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, within minutes of each other, killing 224 people and
wounding thousands of others. Bin Laden is again blamed.

JUNE 25, 1996: Truck-bomb explodes outside the Khobar Towers, Dharan, eastern
Saudi Arabia, killing 19 US servicemen and wounding hundreds of various
nationalities. Members of a little-known Saudi militant group, Hezbollah, were
indicted for the attack.

SEPTEMBER 13, 1995: Rocket-propelled grenade pierces wall of US embassy in
Moscow, but causes no injuries.

NOVEMBER 13, 1995: Car bomb detonates at a US military headquarters in Riyadh,
Saudi Arabia, killing five US service personnel.

APRIL 19, 1995: Bomb rips through the Alfred P Murrah Federal Building in
downtown Oklahoma City, killing 168 and wounding more than 500. Former US
soldier Timothy McVeigh is convicted of carrying out the attack; he was executed
earlier this year.

FEBRUARY 26, 1993: A bomb explodes in a parking garage below the World Trade
Centre in New York, killing six people and wounding more than 1,000. Six Islamic
militants were convicted in the bombing and sentenced to life in prison.

DECEMBER 21, 1988: Pan Am Boeing 747 explodes over Lockerbie, Scotland, on a
flight from London to New York, killing 270 people including residents of the
town.

SEPTEMBER 5, 1986: Hijackers seize Pan Am jumbo jet carrying 358 people at
Karachi Airport. Twenty people killed when security forces storm the plane.

OCTOBER 8, 1985: A crippled American Jew, Leon Klinghoffer , is killed by
Palestinian militants who had seized at gunpoint the Italian cruise liner
Achille Lauro.

JUNE 14, 1985: Shiite gunmen seize a TWA Boeing 727, forcing it to Beirut,
Lebanon. They demand the release of 700 Arabs held by Israel. A US Navy diver is
killed and 39 Americans are held until they are released on July 1 after Syrian
mediation.

SEPTEMBER 20, 1984: Car bomb at US embassy annex in east Beirut, Lebanon, kills
16 and injures the ambassador.

DECEMBER 12, 1983: Shiite extremists set off car bombs in front of the US and
French embassies in Kuwait City, killing five people and wounding 86.

OCTOBER 23, 1983: Shiite suicide bomber blows up US Marine barracks in Beirut,
Lebanon, killing 241 Marines.

APRIL 18, 1983: Suicide car bomber blows up US embassy in Beirut, killing 17
Americans.

NOVEMBER 4, 1979: Islamic students storm US embassy in Tehran, Iran, holding 52
Americans hostage for 444 days.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

TERROR FROM THE SKIES: ATTACKS COULD MAKE A CASE FOR THE SON OF STAR WARS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 308 words


THE aerial terrorist attacks on New York and Washington are likely to reinforce
the case for President Bush's missile defence scheme - which is likely to have
implications for Britain.

The hugely controversial project is designed to protect the United States from
missile attack by rogue states.

Though the attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon saw the terrorists
use hijacked airliners rather than missiles, the fact that the attacks came from
the skies is likely to strengthen the hand of those in the US administration who
insist that America is vulnerable to aerial attack.

Sceptics will point out that the system, employing surface-to-air missiles, is
intended to intercept incoming ballistic missiles, rather than low flying
aircraft.

But the project's influential proponents in Washington will argue that it could
evolve into a more flexible system capable of dealing with a wide range of
threats.

The pounds 40 billion system, dubbed Son of Star Wars after Ronald Reagan's
similar, but abortive, 1980s programme, would almost certainly require the use
of early warning radar facilities at Fylingdales and Menwith Hill, both in
Yorkshire.

The plans have proved highly controversial. The missile technology on which the
system would be based has yet to be proven reliable, while the Russians and
Chinese have voiced alarm about the implications for global security.

Many Labour backbenchers have warned that the scheme could trigger a new arms
race.

Tory leader William Hague committed his party to backing the scheme before the
General Election.

The Government, however, has not clarified its position, insisting that it has
yet to receive a definitive proposal from Washington - although Tony Blair's
Press secretary Alastair Campbell has described the scheme as "broadly" a good
idea.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

FORTRESS AMERICA SOUNDS RED ALERT;
 WORLD TRADE CENTRE DESTROYED AND PENTAGON BADLY DAMAGED IN WORLD'S WORST TERROR
ATTACK

BYLINE: Richard Elias, Emma Bird And Ian Latta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 1666 words


THE atrocity that shook the world is this morning believed to have claimed
10,000 lives and left 25,000 injured.

The dead include about 300 emergency workers.

US Air Force jets patrolled the skies over New York City and Washington DC last
night as American Navy warships cruised off the country's coastlines.

Scenes of incredible carnage and appalling horror, more reminiscent of a
Hollywood blockbuster, emerged from the clouds of dust and rubble after the
destruction of some of the most famous buildings anywhere on the globe.

The unreal scenes followed a day which is destined to be remembered as one of
the bloodiest in the history of the human race.

South Manhattan - the epitome of Western capitalism - this morning lies deserted
and in ruins, testimony to the ruthlessness and fanaticism of terrorism.

And President George W Bush, the world's most powerful man, was at one stage
last night in hiding, under guard at a remote air force base in Nebraska amid
very real fears of an attempt on his life.

But late last night he was en route for the White House, promising the nation
that America would "hunt down and punish those responsible."

His Secretary of State, Colin Powell, added: "Once again, we see terrorism, we
see terrorists, people who do not believe in democracy, people who feel that,
with the destruction of buildings, with the murder of people they can somehow
achieve a political purpose.

"They can destroy buildings, they can kill people, and we will be saddened by
this tragedy but they will never be allowed to kill the spirit of democracy."

Just how or when the United States will react remains to be seen, but what is
almost certain is that there will be some sort of response. However, it has yet
to be established whether it was carried out by a terrorist organisation acting
alone or one with the tacit support of a nation.

The finger of blame is being pointed firmly at Osama Bin-Laden, a powerful Saudi
terrorist leader currently living in Afghanistan.

Even before these outrages, the FBI - which has posted him on their "Top Ten
Most Wanted" list - had put a $ 5m bounty on his head.

According to experts, three weeks ago he vowed to carry out a "big one" on
American interests and, according to US intelligence, there are "firm
indications" that he was responsible.

Last night, though, a spokesman for the Afghans' Taliban government denied that
BinLaden was involved.

The scenario unfolded at 8.58am (New York time) when an American Airlines 767
Flight 11 en route from Boston to Los Angeles ploughed into one tower of the
110-storey World Trade Centre. It was carrying 92 passengers.

Eighteen minutes later, another American Airlines 737, Flight 77 from Washington
DC to Los Angeles, with 64 people on board, smashed into the remaining tower.

While the country was trying to come to terms with those events, at 9.43am
reports came in of a third crash - this time 200 miles away in the American
capital, Washington DC.

This was United Airlines Flight 175, a Boeing 767 from Boston to Los Angeles,
with 65 people on board.

This time the target was the Pentagon, the very heartbeat of US security and
again the result was carnage and destruction. At 10.07am, the south tower of the
World Trade Centre collapsed, possibly as a result of bombs placed at its base,
and exactly 20 minutes later the north tower followed suit.

Later in the day, a third building which had been burning, also collapsed.

Their destruction left thousands of office workers dead and countless more
injured.

In between the towers imploding, a car bomb exploded outside the State
Department in Washington DC and, at 10.30am, first reports began to filter
through of another jet crash, this time near Johnstown, in Pennsylvania, around
80 miles outside Pittsburgh. It has since emerged that the intended target of
United Airlines Flight 93, a Boeing 757 en route from Newark, New Jersey to San
Francisco was Camp David, the presidential retreat in Maryland.

Terrorists are believed to have hijacked the planes, overpowered the crew and
then killed the pilots before flying the aircraft into the buildings.

The president of the Association of Former Intelligence Officers, Gene Poteat,
said: "No pilot, even with a gun to his head, is going to fly into the World
Trade Towers.

"They (the terrorists) flew the planes themselves. This has been an enormously
longplanned and obviously carefully-planned operation." New York City's mayor,
Rudolph Guiliani, said: "I have a sense it is a horrendous number of lives lost.
Right now, we have to focus on saving as many lives as possible."

He added: "The situation right now is a massive rescue effort that is going on.
We are trying to evacuate thousands and thousands of people.

"It is a horrible, horrible tragedy. When the building collapsed, we had lots of
police officers and firefighters in the building and I know many of them because
I saw many of them go in. I am praying for them.

"The losses to our police and fire department are going to be severe."

Mayor Guiliani, who later ordered the complete evacuation of south Manhattan,
continued: "I never thought I would see anything like this happen. I got there
after the first plane hit and before the second. Watching people jump from the
top of the World Trade Centre was an unbelievable sight.

"The people of New York City can demonstrate their resolve and support for the
people killed and maimed today by getting on with their lives as normally as
they can. Please remain calm." He estimated that it could take weeks to dig out
all the victims from the wreckage of the three buildings.

It is estimated that up to 50,000 could have been working in the two Trade
Centre towers at the time that the planes smashed into them.

Perhaps the most poignant moment came from a 911 call recorded by the emergency
services minutes after the first 'plane had struck the World Trade Centre.

Amidst the sounds of wailing and screaming an unidentified office worker is
heard pleading: "Help us, we're dying" - a second later the 'phone goes dead.

Mike Smith, a New York fire marshal, who was one of the first emergency workers
to arrive at the scene, told CNN: "Everyone was screaming, crying, running -
cops, people, firefighters, everyone. It was just like a war zone."

Kenny Johannemann, a janitor, who described seeing one man running from the
World Trade Centre in flames said: "It was horrendous. I just cannot describe
it."

Housing Authority worker Barry Jennings was waiting in a command centre after
having been evacuated from one tower when the second explosion occurred, and he
simply recalled: "The lobby was gone. It looked like hell."

Briton Andrew Aird said: "It is just chaos down here. I was making a phone call
when I heard another plane coming in very low - much louder that we would
usually hear and I just saw a passenger airliner roar overhead and then, seconds
later, I heard a huge explosion."

Lindsey Green who works in the World Financial Centre which is directly behind
the Trade Centre described what she saw as "horrendous".

She added: "I heard my friend screaming 'there's a plane heading for the Trade
Centre'.

"I turned round and ran to the window and I just could not believe my eyes. I
saw it plough into the side of the skyscraper and there was a sound like a sonic
boom.

"People were screaming. I have never seen anything like it in my life."

Joseph Gomez, a security consultant, was on the 71st floor of one the towers
when the first plane struck.

He said: "It was like something from an awful movie. I looked up and just saw
the aircraft heading straight for the Trade Centre.

"I saw a ball of fire coming towards me.

"I thought the world was going to end as the whole building shuddered and shook
and I was thrown to the floor.

"Everyone made for the fire exits. There was so much shouting and screaming and
panic.

People were just shoving and pushing each other."

Businessman Gabriel Ioan said: "Survivors walked round like ghosts, covered in
dirt, weeping and wandering about dazed."

The Foreign Office last night issued a special hotline for anyone who is worried
about relatives in America. The number is 0207008000.

Timetable of devastation

HERE is the timetable of events following the terror attacks in New York and
Washington. (All times BST) 1.58pm - Jet airliner crashes into the World Trade
Centre in New York.

2.16pm - A second airliner crashes into the second tower, causing a devastating
explosion. TV shows dramatic pictures.

2.20pm - Emerges that FBI is investigating reports of a plane being hijacked
before World Trade Centre crashes.

2.29pm - First reports of casualties indicate at least six people were killed,
with at least 1,000 injured.

2.30pm - US President George Bush says:

"We have had a national tragedy. Two aeroplanes have crashed into the World
Trade Centre in an apparent terrorist attack on our country."

2.32pm - CNN report one plane was an American Airlines Boeing 767 from Boston.

2.43pm - Abu Dhabi television reports it received a call from the Democratic
Front for the Liberation of Palestine claiming responsibility for crashing
planes into the World Trade Centre.

2.43pm - Reports that a plane crashed near the Pentagon, Washington - the heart
of American military machine.

2.45pm - The White House is evacuated.

2.50pm - Airports in US shut down.

3.07pm - The south tower of World Trade Centre collapses.

3.12pm - UK Prime Minister Tony Blair describes attacks as "the most terrible
shocking event".

3.25pm - Car bomb explodes outside State Department in Washington.

3.27pm - The north tower of the World Trade Centre collapses.

3.30pm - Reports of a Boeing 767 crashing near Somerset County Airport,
southeast of Pittsburgh.

10.25 Another World Trade Centre building - the 47 storey Building 7 -
collapses.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEVASTATION: The smoking ruins of the Pentagon, in Washington DC;
CAUGHT ON TV: A Boeing 737 flies into the second World Trade Centre tower and
explodes. Both towers collapsed soon afterwards

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: TALIBAN LEADERS SLAM ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 274 words


THE hard-line Taliban rulers of Afghanistan condemned the attacks in the US and
said they would never support terrorism.

They also rejected suggestions that Saudi dissident Osama bin Laden, who has
found refuge in Afghanistan, could be behind them.

Washington has accused bin Laden of running an inter-national terrorist network,
but the Taliban, who espouse a fanatically-harsh brand of Islam, have resisted
US demands to hand him over.

Bin Laden was indicted in the United States on charges of masterminding the
bombings of two US embassies in East Africa in 1998 which killed 224 people
including 12 Americans.

Washington retaliated with a missile attack on areas in east Afghanistan thought
to be training camps for bin Laden's terrorists.

More than 70 Tomahawk cruise missiles hit the camps, killing about 20 people.
The exiled Saudi millionaire escaped unhurt.

Since then he has been forced by the Taliban rulers to stop giving interviews
and making statements.

Abdul Hai Muttmain, the spokesman for the Taliban's reclusive leader, Mullah
Mohammed Omar, said yesterday: "We never support terrorism. We, too, are targets
of terrorism."

He also dismissed allegations that bin Laden could be behind the attacks in the
United States.

The Taliban say bin Laden's communications equipment has been taken from him.

But his family members in Saudi Arabia say he has access to satellite phones and
other communications equipment.

In the Afghan capital, Kabul, foreign aid workers were keeping a low profile and
security measures were heightened. Most expatriates have been advised to stay in
their homes.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: THIS IS THE TRUE COST OF DEMOCRACY

BYLINE: Paul Beaver Defence Analyst & Spokesman For Jane'S Defence Publications

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 621 words


A STUNNED America is already asking its government: "How did this happen?"

How could their massive multi-billion dollar security services fail to prevent
the world's greatest act of terrorism?

How could New York, its largest city, and Washington DC, its seat of government,
fall victim to such outrages?

Who did it and - as anger replaces shock - how and when can we take our revenge?

This was a co-ordinated terrorist attack entirely without precedent in its
scale, savagery and complexity.

At least three airline hijackings, a car bomb, the World Trade Centre destroyed
and part of the Pentagon flattened.

It seems like the plot of a series of far-fetched Hollywood movies rolled into
one.

But it was violently and bloodily real and beamed on live TV to every part of
the world.

The terrorism outrages in Britain by the IRA and the Real IRA, horrific and
tragic as they have been, are nothing compared to yesterday's terrible events.

Who was responsible? It could have been a Palestinian group, Arab extremists, an
Islamic fundamental group or a coalition of people from all three or elsewhere.

At the time of the Oklahoma bombing, everyone immediately pointed the finger at
the Arab or Islamic world. No-one thought about home-grown American terrorism
carried out by US rednecks.

But the target then was a US Federal building - Timothy McVeigh was attacking
the US government for its domestic policies.

The Pentagon and the World Trade Centre are all about US foreign policy.

The Pentagon is the symbol of America's military power to back up its foreign
policy - a policy that includes recent attacks by US and British aircraft on
Saddam Hussein's air defence system - and the World Trade Centre is seen as a
symbol of globalisation and US economic might.

America's security services failed to warn of these attacks, but there were
warnings a few days ago for US citizens to be vigilant.

But, as in the past, people believed it was aimed at US citizens in foreign
countries, where there were car bombs, hijackings and kidnappings.

Not at home. Not in America.

The US military will now be on maximum alert. Had this been an attack by, say,
North Korea, then this would be war.

President Bush and his military advisers would know and would have plans set up
to deal with such a contingency.

But at the moment, the US is in the dark. They don't know who to target, how to
attack them and with what level of force.

Yesterday's events can truly be compared to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor,
which for most modern Americans is something taught in history or was the movie
they went to see this summer.

Yesterday was the disaster movie blockbuster scenario made chillingly real.

And there was no Bruce Willis in a ripped T-shirt to save people in the last
reel.

This has rammed home to America in a terrible way that real terrorists kill.
They are facing people who are prepared to fly aircraft carrying innocent people
into a building, knowing they will die in a fireball.

The average American doesn't look much beyond his own city, his state and beyond
his country's borders. Terrorism is something that happens elsewhere.

American airports don't have the same sophisticated security we have in Europe.
They have long been criticised by their own Federal Aviation Authority for
lapses.

I am not at all surprised that this has happened in America.

Americans believe security comes from having 12 carrier battle groups and 20
nuclear submarines at sea all the time. They learned the terrible lesson
yesterday that it isn't necessarily so.

Vulnerability to terrorism is part of the price we pay for an open and
democratic society.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: THE NO1 SUSPECT;
 TERRORIST MASTER BIN LADEN IS THE MAN CIA BELIEVE IS BEHIND ATROCITY

BYLINE: Allan Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 914 words


TERRORIST mastermind Osama bin Laden is America's number one suspect behind
yesterday's atrocities in New York and Washington.

As one of the leaders of a fanatical Islamic terror alliance, he has been
waiting for just the right time to display the awesome power he has amassed in
the caves and plateaux of a distant mountain range in Afghanistan.

Like some evil genius straight out of a James Bond novel, bin Laden has been
orchestrating his so-called holy war against Jews and Americans.

He is believed to have been the architect of the bombing of the USS Cole in
Aden, which left six sailors dead, a dozen missing and many injured.

He is also thought to have been behind the 1993 World Trade Centre bombing, the
1996 killing of 19 US soldiers in Saudi Arabia and the 1998 bombings in Kenya
and Tanzania.

But the fear is he has the capacity and the intention to do much more ... much
more.

America knows it is in a race against time to find him.

For not only does bin Laden have a formidable arsenal of conventional weapons,
he has also chemical weapons at his disposal.

And with his stockpile of nerve gases Tabun and Sarin, he has the potential to
transform himself from being just a brutal terrorist into an evil powerbroker
with the world at his mercy.

The CIA sent an urgent report to the White House 18 months ago that suicide
bombers inside Israel with chemical weapon bombs would wreak death and
destruction on a massive scale.

Tabun and Sarin were the nerve gas agents first developed by the Nazis in WWII
but never used.

The Japanese cult that released a small portion of Sarin into the Tokyo subway
system a few years ago showed its awesome power. America targeted what it said
was a chemical weapons plant in Sudan in retaliation for the bombings of US
embassies in Africa that bin Laden carried out with lethal effect.

"But the chemicals had already gone," said Kenneth Katzman of the Congressional
Research Service and an expert on Middle East terrorism.

They had been shipped back to the terrorist training academy bin Laden runs in
Afghanistan where they were "weaponised".

Weaponising consists of turning inert chemical agents into lethal toxins and
fitting them into devices to spread the poison over a wide scale.

A teacup full of Sarin in the water supply of Jersualem would be enough to kill
every inhabitant 10 times over.

The normal method of dispersing chemical agents is through an artillery shell.
But because the Palestinian stone-throwers don't possess artillery pieces, the
accepted scenario is of an infiltration into Israel of suicide bombers ready to
die for Allah.

Bin Laden has more than 2000 trained fanatics poised to go into the West Bank
and Israel to blow the peace process and with it world stability to the four
winds.

Former CIA counter-terrorism chief Vincent Cannistrano said: "Aside from the
fact he has access to millions of dollars, bin Laden and his people are masters
of improvisation.

"He beat the Russian army out of Aghanistan with an army that made grenades from
land mines and shells from rusty tin cans.

"With his connections in Saudi Arabia, where his father became one of the
country's richest men as a builder, and to other areas of the Arab world, he has
access to some of the most sophisticated explosives and weapons.

"Semtex, nitro-glycerine, detonaters - he has mountains of the stuff but if he
truly has gone chemical then he doesn't need any of this."

Guenther Griese, a German anti-terrorist expert, said: "By the best estimates,
he probably has no more than two pounds of Tabun and Sarin. No matter - that is
enough to wipe out Israel, Egypt, Jordan and probably several other countries
besides."

Born in Saudi Arabia to a Yemeni family, bin Laden's power is founded on his
personal fortune from his family construction business.

He left Saudi Arabia in 1979 to fight against the Soviet invasion of
Afghanistan.

The Afghans were backed by American dollars, and bin Laden received security
training from the CIA.

While in Afghanistan, he founded the Maktab al-Khidimat (MAK), which recruited
fighters from around the world and imported equipment to aid the Afghan
resistance against the Soviet army.

Thousands of Egyptians, Lebanese, Turks and others joined their Afghan Moslem
brothers in the struggle against an ideology that spurned religion.

But after the Russians withdrew, bin Laden and his cohorts turned their fire
against the US and their allies in the Middle East.

He returned to Saudi Arabia to work in the family construction business, but was
expelled in 1991 because of his anti- government activities there.

He spent the next five years in Sudan until US pressure prompted the Sudanese
government to expel him, whereupon bin Laden, who is believed to be in his
forties and has three wives, returned to Afghanistan.

But bin Laden is now America's most wanted.

"Remember," added ex-CIA man Cannistrano, "he is the only one out of any of the
Middle East terrorist groups who has declared a Fatwa against America. He is the
one with the vision and the means to see this thing through.

"America would love to bomb him but to bomb you first need an address. And that
we don't have."

Bin Laden is America's worst nightmare. Today, he has 2000 Moslem "graduates"
from his terror academy that have trained for five years.

Tomorrow, with those graduates ,he could be the man to trigger WWIII.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: THE EXODUS;
 FLIGHT FROM THE STREETS AS THE USA FINDS ITSELF A COUNTRY BESIEGED

BYLINE: Andrew Walker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16, 17

LENGTH: 860 words


THE most powerful nation on the planet was plunged into total shutdown by the
wave of terror attacks.

From coast to coast, America was frozen in terror and under siege as all land
borders and air space closed.

Where there would normally be 4000 commercial aircraft in the skies over the US,
there were soon none - only military jets and helicopters.

Four carrier groups of the US Navy were last night steaming to positions to put
a steel curtain along the eastern seaboard.

And stunned Americans were wondering which other symbols of US power might
become terror targets.

Many believed the Statue of Liberty would be next.

New York mayor Rudy Giuliani ordered the whole of downtown Manhattan to be
evacuated, turning some of the world's busiest streets into a virtual ghost
town.

The military were put on alert condition Delta - the highest state of readiness.

In towns and cities across the US, sirens screamed and people's daily lives came
to a halt as they watched the devastating events unfold on TV.

Impact

On the west coast, it was only 5.30am when the first blast exploded in New York.

But the psychological impact was felt in every tiny corner of the vast country
as citizens struggled to come to terms with the sheer horror of the attack.

Skyscrapers in every US city were closed down to reduce the risk of injury
should the terrorists strike elsewhere.

Major institutions, from tourist attractions like Florida's Disney World, to
federal organisations, were closed.

Oil installations were on increased alert and operations suspended and state
buildings shut down.

A torrent of people rushed from their office buildings throughout Washington DC,
the heart of US government.

It was like a scene from a Hollywood disaster movie, featuring a cast of a
thousand extras.

The cell phone networks were overloaded, clusters of people gathered on the
sidewalks and at least one suburban school district announced plans to close
early.

The entire fabric of US life was grinding to a halt.

Several schools in central New York were evacuated in the wake of the terrorist
assault - but most remained open, according to the city's education board.
Children at three schools closest to the atrocities were relocated elsewhere in
the city, while others were asked to keep pupils indoors and only release them
to their parents.

The rest of the 1100 schools in five New York boroughs remained open "at a
heightened state of security".

The New York City Board of Education said schools should stay open late as many
parents would not be able to reach them and pupils would find it difficult to
get home.

The financial heart of the US, revolving around the doomed Trade Centre towers,
closed down in the aftermath.

Hundreds of companies sent their employees home for the day, putting thousands
of New Yorkers into the streets after public transport was shut down for fear of
more attacks. The West Wing of the White House was evacuated after the attack on
the Pentagon in Washington.

The entire 15-game Major League baseball card scheduled for last night was
cancelled and the American football programme was set to follow suit.

The Ryder Cup, one of the most prestigious events on the sporting calendar, also
faces being scrapped amid heightened security fears.

Organisers of the Europe v USA contest, due to tee off at The Belfry in Sutton
Coldfield, near Birmingham, on September 28, were last night locked in
discussions over the possibility of cancelling or postponing the contest.

The American team is devastated by the events and at the moment is in no mood to
contemplate competing.

The security implications of bringing Tiger Woods and his team-mates to Britain
will also have to be discussed.

As America plunged into mourning, the USPGA cancelled the start of the World
Golf Championship in St Louis.

The competition is now likely to take place over 54 holes on Friday and Saturday
- if several of the game's biggest names make it to Missouri.

With American airspace shut down, PGA champion David Toms, Phil Mickelsen and
Davis Love III were among those stranded.

But with the nation in a state of shock, it is extremely unlikely that any of
the 12-strong American team will want to fly to the UK.

Tiger Woods, who had arrived at St Louis before the terrorist attacks, is due to
play in the Lancombe Trophy event in Paris next week but is almost certain to
pull out. Yesterday, he said simply: "This is a sad, sad day in America."

Meanwhile, money markets all over the world closed down in turmoil in the wake
of the terrorist attacks.

London's Stock Exchange was closed amid fears it could become a target as the
FTSE-100 index collapsed, closing down 287.7 at 4746.0. At the same time, the
price of oil was going through the roof.

One Scottish-based financial expert said: "The FTSE has collapsed through the
floor - that's its lowest close for some time. It's not surprising the oil price
is going through the roof.

"We don't know how America will retaliate and in the event of reprisals, even
war, oil would become a scarce commodity."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

TERROR ATTACKS ROCKED WORLD;
 FACELESS BOMBERS HAPPY TO SACRIFICE THE INNOCENT

BYLINE: Donna Watson And Gary Ralston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16, 17

LENGTH: 1414 words


YESTERDAY'S terrorist attacks sent shockwaves around the world - reminding every
nation of past terrorist disasters which have cost countless lives.

In the past 30 years, militant activists have cast aside conscience in a bid to
gain their political aims.

And their innocent victims have been the civilians caught up in their attacks.

Thousands have been killed, maimed or horrifically injured as they innocently
enjoyed a day's shopping, dinner with friends or a day out sightseeing with the
family.

Political extremists have been making their point with militant measures in
every corner of the world.

Scotland is still reeling from the effects of the tragic plane crash at
Lockerbie 13 years ago, which killed 259 passengers and 11 residents of the tiny
village.

Pan Am flight number 103 exploded over the Borders town on its way from Heathrow
to New York.

It emerged that a terrorist bomb had been planted on the plane by Libyans,
although the country's leader Colonel Gaddafi denies they have any involvement
in the atrocity.

The US and Britain eventually issued arrest warrants for Libyans Abdelbaset Ali
Mohmed Al Megrahi and Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah in 1991, but the pair were not
charged until 1999.

Al Megrahi was sentenced to 20 years for the Lockerbie bombing earlier this
year, while Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah walked free.

The last three decades have also been marred by countless IRA attacks.

Hundreds have been killed since the troubles began in 1969 - and one of the most
notorious incidents came in 1987 when 11 were killed by a Provo bomb at a
Remembrance Day Parade in Enniskillen, County Fermanagh.

Another of the worst bombings of the Eighties was at the Grand Hotel in Brighton
on October 12, 1984.

The IRA set out to attack the very heart of the British establishment by
assassinating Margaret Thatcher and her cabinet on the eve of her speech at the
Tory Party Conference.

Thatcher and her cabinet survived the attack, but five people were killed.
Norman Tebbit's wife Margaret was left paralysed after falling four storeys. IRA
member Patrick Magee was found guilty of the bombing and sentenced to serve at
least 35 years in prison.

The judge described him as "a man of exceptional cruelty and inhumanity".

He was released two years ago by the Government as part of the controversial
Good Friday Agreement.

In 1993, the British mainland was targetted again and this time two young boys -
12-year-old Tim Parry and three-year-old Johnathan Ball - were the victims.

They were killed as two IRA bombs ripped through a busy shopping centre in
Warrington the day before Mother's Day.

In 1996, there was more carnage. The IRA attacked Manchester city centre,
injuring more than 200 Saturday shoppers.

A bomb went off near the Arndale Shopping Centre, sending a white shower of
glass over a wide area.

Casualty numbers would have been greater, but a coded warning was received
minutes before the blast and police were able to evacuate up to 75,000 shoppers.

Two years later, the world looked on in horror as a Real IRA bomb blast killed
29 in the quiet market town of Omagh.

The attack left the nation shaken and the peace process in tatters.

In the Middle East, the peace process has taken a similar pounding as the
terrorist war continues to rage on. Almost 1000 have been killed in the past
year as they became entangled in the crossfire of attacks.

At the weekend, eight people died and 40 others were hurt in a new wave of
terror.

A Palestinian suicide bomber killed three at a railway station packed with
Israeli soldiers returning to their bases after weekend leave.

The driver and a passenger died and three others were wounded in a drive-by gun
attack on a van taking teachers to a nursery school. Another person was killed
when a car bomb exploded at a busy road junction.

It was the second suicide bombing in four days after a Palestinian disguised as
an Orthodox Jew blew himself up in Jerusalem, wounding 15 people.

THE violence cast a shadow over hopes for a ceasefire after nearly a year of
violence in which 700, mostly Palestinians, have died.

Yesterday, however, other world events were overshadowed by the mass devastation
suffered in the US.

Reeling from the shock of the attacks, the nation held its breath as President
George Bush considered his response.

The catastrophic loss of life on such a massive scale is something the US has
not experienced since Pearl Harbor. But facing up to terrorist attacks from
extremist groups is nothing new for the US.

Over the years they've lost countless lives - both military and civilian losses.
The country was rocked in 1995 when killer Timothy McVeigh took 168 lives in the
Oklahoma City bombing.

Until yesterday, it was at the time the worst act of terrorism ever to take
place on American soil.

McVeigh had planted a bomb at the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building which ripped
the front off of all nine floors.

The Gulf War veteran was found guilty of murdering 11 federal agents and three
counts of planning and planting the bomb in 1997.

The blast from the 4,000lb truck-bomb, fuelled by diesel oil and fertiliser, was
reported to have been heard 12 miles away by somebody making a recording at the
time.

Following his time fighting for his country, during which he was a decorated
Gulf War hero, and the McVeigh was believed to have developed a hideous grudge
against the US Government.

When he was executed in June this year, McVeigh was strongly believed to have
links to anti-establishment and terrorist organisations.

A bombing at the US Marine Barracks in Beirut in 1983 by Shiite suicide bomber
saw 241 Marines killed.

The following year, the US embassy in east Beirut was targeted by another
suicide bomber, this time believed to be from the Islamic Jihad group.

The US Ambassador was killed and his visiting British colleague, as well as 38
others. Dozens were injured in the blast.

In 1996, a bomb exploded at Khobar Towers, a US military housing complex in
Saudi Arabia, killing 19 American airmen and wounding another 500 people, 372 of
them Americans.

Just two months ago, the United States brought indictments against Hezbollah
militants for the bombing.

Iranian government officials were accused of masterminding the attack in Saudi
Arabia, but no charges were brought against individuals in Tehran.

After a five-year investigation, 13 Saudi militants and an unnamed Lebanese man
are wanted for the bombing of the Khobar complex.

In August 1998 the death toll rose further as car bombs exploded outside the
American embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam within minutes of each other,
killing 224 people.

Until yesterday, it was thought that the hijacking of US planes was not as huge
a threat as it had been in the Eighties when it was an approach favoured by many
terrorists.

On June 14, 1985, Shiite gunmen seized a TWA Boeing 727, forcing it to Beirut
and demanding the release of 700 Arabs held by Israel.

A US Navy diver was killed and 39 Americans were held until July 1.

On September 5 the following year, hijackers seized Pan Am jumbo jet carrying
358 people at Karachi Airport. Twenty people were killed when security forces
stormed the plane.

As America recovered from its past attacks, they could never have imagined the
enormity of yesterday's horror was still to come.

LOCKERBIE

A total of 270 people are killed on December 21, 1988, when Pan Am flight 103 is
blown out of the sky and crashes into Lockerbie

NAIROBI

Car bombs explode outside the American embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam
within minutes of each other, killing 224 people

BRIGHTON

In October 1984, the town's Grand Hotel, venue for the annual Tory Party
Conference, was destroyed by an IRA bomb that killed five people

WARRINGTON

Two young boys died when two IRA bombs ripped through a shopping centre the day
before Mother's Day in March 1993

ENNISKILLEN

A Remembrance Sunday service at Enniskillen in November 1987 was rocked by a
Provo bomb. The blast left 11 people deadOMAGHThe Real IRA committed the worst
atrocity of recent times in August 1998 with the Omagh car bomb that killed 29
men, women and children

MANCHESTER

The busy Arndale shopping centre was the target of the terrorists in June 1996.
Amazingly, no-one was killed, but more than 300 were injured and the centre was
badly damaged

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: PANIC SPREADS;
 POTENTIAL TARGETS EVACUATED AS FEARS GROW OF ATTACKS ON UK

BYLINE: Andrew Walker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 435 words


WORKERS in Britain were evacuated from high-profile buildings yesterday as fear
spread that they could be next on the terrorist hit-list.

Employees fled Canary Wharf, the London Stock Exchange, the Lloyds building and
the NatWest Tower in London in the wake of the devastating attacks on New York
and Washington.

American banks and some UK firms in the City also sent workers home as a
precaution.

Canary Wharf - the tallest building in the Britain - houses 5500 employees who
work for firms as diverse as the Bank of New York, US investment bank
Bearstearns, accountants KPMG and national newspapers, including the Record's
sister paper the Mirror.

It is a prime terrorist target and bomb threats are common. In 1996, two people
died in an IRA car-bomb blast near the tower.

Building managers stopped short of evacuating the 44-storey landmark but most
firms sent worried staff home after a routine fire alarm test on the 19th floor
added to the sense of panic.

One worker said: "We were watching what was happening in America when suddenly
the power cut out and the fire alarm went off.

"Nobody needed much encouragement to get out."

Katie Thomas, 25, from the advertising department of the Mirror, said: "No one
really expects a plane to hit Canary Wharf but then no one in New York would
have predicted what happened there, so I think we are all secretly relieved to
get out."

The London Stock Exchange, in the heart o London's financial district, was
cleared within 30 minutes of the New York attack.

Trading continued at an unspecified location, said exchange spokesman John
Wallace.

Trader Iain McAllister, 32, said: "The Stock Market went into turmoil and
started to plummet."

Meanwhile, passengers due to fly to the States from Britain were told to expect
long delays after all aircraft in America were grounded.

A spokesman for Scottish Airports said: "We understand US airspace has been
closed and all flights to the United States have been grounded.

"Clearly there will be significant disruption. Passengers travelling to the
United States are advised to contact their airlines."

Last night, all States-bound planes were diverted to Canada.

Yesterday, Shell UK told thousands of staff thoughout Britain to go home amid
fears that family friends and colleagues could have been caught up in the
attacks.

Meanwhile, civic ceremonies in British cities were cancelled yesterday in the
wake of the attack.

Last night, Liverpool said they would not hold a Freedom of the City ceremony
for Falklands hero Simon Weston as a mark of respect.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: STUNNED TOURISTS GATHER TO WAIT FOR NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 165 words


STUNNED Americans gathered at the US Consulate General's office in Edinburgh
yesterday.

Many wept as they waited to find out whether friends and family were safe.

The American flag was at half mast on the four-storey building on Edinburgh's
Regent Terrace and police taped off the street as sniffer dogs searched the
area.

Student Ryan Gronberg, 20, was on holiday in Edinburgh when he found out about
the attack

He said: "I never thought something like this would happen in our generation."

His girlfriend Bobbie Edmiston, also 20, added: "It was like a scene you would
expect from World War III."

A spokesman for the Faslane naval base on the Clyde - home of the Trident
nuclear weapon system - said: "There is no impact for us. Things remain normal
."

Visits by Americans to financial institutions in Edinburgh were cancelled on
security grounds.

Companies such as Standard Life and Scottish Widows had planned to receive a
number of American visitors.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: PANIC SPREADS;
 POTENTIAL TARGETS EVACUATED AS FEARS GROW OF ATTACKS ON UK

BYLINE: Andrew Walker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 437 words


WORKERS in Britain were evacuated from high-profile buildings yesterday as fear
spread that they could be next on the terrorist hit-list.

Employees fled Canary Wharf, the London Stock Exchange, the Lloyds building and
the NatWest Tower in London in the wake of the devastating attacks on New York
and Washington.

American banks and some UK firms in the City also sent workers home as a
precaution.

Canary Wharf - the tallest building in the Britain - houses 5500 employees who
work for firms as diverse as the Bank of New York, US investment bank
Bearstearns, accountants KPMG and national newspapers, including the Record's
sister paper the Mirror.

It is a prime terrorist target and bomb threats are common. In 1996, two people
died in an IRA car-bomb blast near the tower.

Building managers stopped short of evacuating the 44-storey landmark but most
firms sent worried staff home after a routine fire alarm test on the 19th floor
added to the sense of panic.

One worker said: "We were watching what was happening in America when suddenly
the power cut out and the fire alarm went off.

"Nobody needed much encouragement to get out."

Katie Thomas, 25, from the advertising department of the Mirror, said: "No one
really expects a plane to hit Canary Wharf but then no one in New York would
have predicted what happened there, so I think we are all secretly relieved to
get out."

The London Stock Exchange, in the heart o London's financial district, was
cleared within 30 minutes of the New York attack.

Trading continued at an unspecified location, said exchange spokesman John
Wallace.

Trader Iain McAllister, 32, said: "The Stock Market went into turmoil and
started to plummet."

In Edinburgh, stunned Americans gathered at the US Consulate General's office.
Many wept as they waited to find out whether friends and family were safe.

The American flag was at half mast on the four-storey building on Edinburgh's
Regent Terrace and police taped off the street as sniffer dogs searched the
area.

A spokesman for the Faslane naval base on the Clyde - home of the Trident
nuclear weapon system - said: "There is no impact for us. Things remain normal
."

Meanwhile, passengers due to fly to the States from Britain were told to expect
long delays after all aircraft in America were grounded.

A spokesman for Scottish Airports said: "We understand US airspace has been
closed and all flights to the United States have been grounded.

"Clearly there will be significant disruption. Passengers travelling to the
United States are advised to contact their airlines."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

NEW YORK TERRORIST ATTACK: RESCUE TEAM ON STANDBY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 104 words


THE Scots-based International Rescue Corps were last night ready to fly to New
York to assist the search for survivors.

IRC president Lord James Douglas Hamilton said they were "on alert".

He said: "It's a terrible national tragedy but the IRC have acted at once.

"We understand an offer of UK help is likely to be forthcoming from Downing
Street, and the Department of International Development asked the IRC to have
its team on standby.

"The IRC specialists have training on how to save lives in devastating
circumstances.

"They are there to be of assistance if their offer of help is accepted."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

NEW YORK TERRORIST ATTACK: FERGIE SET FOR CHARITY VISIT TO TOWERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 160 words


THE Duchess of York narrowly escaped being caught in the World Trade Centre
disaster yesterday.

She was due to visit one of the doomed towers where her charity, Chances for
Children, has an office.

But the terrorists struck before she had set off across New York.

And Prince Andrew was on his way to America when all the airports were shut down
in the aftermath of the attacks.

His British Airways plane did a U-turn over the Atlantic and returned to
Gatwick.

He had been due to land at Atlanta, Georgia, yesterday afternoon.

From there, he was to travel on to New York on Friday as part of his work with
the Outward Bound charity.

His BA flight 2227 turned around just over an hour after take-off.

Buckingham Palace said he was believed to be returning home.

A spokeswoman for the duchess said: "The staff of two were with her. Luckily
they had not set off for the World Trade Centre when the tragic incidents took
place."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

NEW YORK TERRORIST ATTACKS: WORLD TRADE CENTRE FACTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 116 words


THE twin towers of the World Trade Centre were the tallest skyscrapers on earth
when they opened in 1970.

And they remained the world's second tallest buildings until a few years ago.

When they were sold for more than pounds 1billion in August 1999, the owners
described them as "the most valuable trophy property in the US".

The outside viewing platform on the 110th floor was the highest in the world. On
a clear day, visitors at the top could see for more than 80 miles. The curvature
of the earth was clearly visible to the naked eye.

More than 50,000 people worked in the skyscrapers - 25,000 in each tower and
100,000 people visited the 16 acres of the towers daily.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

NEW YORK TERRORIST ATTACKS: 1993 OK, SO SIX DIED .. BUT NOBODY CAN BLOW IT UP;
 THE WORDS THAT HAUNTED MAN IN NEW YORK

BYLINE: Allan Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 433 words


I WALKED through the wreckage after the bombing of the World Trade Centre in
1993 - and thought then it was a symbol ripe for a terrorist attack.

Now it has happened.

The petrol and fertiliser device that erupted then beneath the famous columns
was deadly.

Six died in the explosion and fire that followed - but it was just a scratch on
the hide of a steel-and-concrete rhino.

The blast went downwards and destroyed the tracks of a subway station below.

Above, when the DIY bomb went off, there was smoke, panic, fear and confusion.

Two days after the bombing, police allowed the media into the bowels of the
towers.

They were blackened, they were stinking from the smoke and flames - they looked
like a giant's barbecue had suddenly gone out of control.

As we walked, our guide boasted of the buildings' dimensions - as if size would
save them in the future.

The towers, we were told, have 10million square feet of office space, seven
times that of the Empire State building, with 500 international companies,
50,000 workers and their own subway station.

More statistics were reeled off - 100million rivets, 10billion cubic metres of
steel struts, 11billion screws, nuts and bolts. When I asked whether anyone
thought a plane could fly into it, I was given a classic New Yawk reply.

"Fuhgeddaboutit," said our guide. "This is an enduring symbol of American power
and nothing can destroy it.

"This building will stand forever because it is apolitical."

He said that radar on the east coast would alert authorities long before a stray
plane got within 30 miles.

Of course, he was not taking into account the possibility of modern-day
kamikazes.

Like a lot of Americans, the guide had the arrogance of power and self
-satisfaction about him.

The conflagrations of the Middle East, of Africa, Iraq, Iran, of Asia and
beyond, were not part of his remit.

Built in 1977 by architects Minoru Yamasaki Associates and Emery Roth and Sons,
the World Trade Centre towers were, at 110 storeys, for a short time, the
tallest buildings in the world.

Another great American symbol, the Empire State Building, was struck by a US Air
Force bomber in July 1945.

Lieutenant-Colonel William Smith Jnr, a decorated WWII veteran, was the pilot of
the B-25 Mitchell aircraft.

It became lost in low cloud while en route from Bedford, Massachusetts, to
Newark, New Jersey.

Three crew died when the plane smashed into the New York landmark's 79th floor -
975ft above Fifth Avenue.

Another 10 died and 26 were hurt in the impact and resulting fire.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

NEW YORK TERRORIST ATTACKS: 1993 OK, SO SIX DIED .. BUT NOBODY CAN BLOW IT UP;
 THE WORDS THAT HAUNTED MAN IN NEW YORK

BYLINE: Allan Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 368 words


I WALKED through the wreckage after a bomb ripped through the World Trade Centre
towers in 1993 - and thought then that this was a symbol ripe for a terrorist
attack.

Now it has happened.

The petrol and fertiliser device that erupted then beneath the world's most
famous columns was deadly - six died in the explosion and fire that followed -
but it was but a scratch on the hide of a steel-and-concrete rhino.

The blast went downwards and destroyed the tracks of a subway station below.

Above, when the DIY bomb went off, there was smoke, panic, fear and confusion.

Two days after the bombing police allowed the media into the bowels of the
towers.

They were blackened, they were stinking from the smoke and flames - they looked
like a giant's barbecue had suddenly gone out of control.

As we walked, our guide boasted of the buildings' dimensions - as if size alone
would save them in the future.

The towers, we were told, have 10 million square feet of office space, seven
times that of the Empire State building, with 500 international companies,
50,000 workers and their own subway station. More statistics were reeled off -
one hundred million rivets, ten billion cubic metres of steel struts, 11 billion
screws,nuts and bolts of varying sizes.

When I asked whether or not anyone thought a plane could fly into it, I was
given a classic New Yawk reply.

"Fuhgeddaboutit," said our guide. "This is an enduring symbol of American power
and, as such, nothing can destroy it.

"This building will stand forever because it is apolitical."

He said that radar deployed on the eastern coast would alert authorities long
before a stray plane got within 30 miles. Of course, he was not taking into
account the possibility of modern-day kamikazes careering into them.

Like a lot of Americans, the guide had the arrogance of power and self
-satisfaction about him.

The conflagrations of the Middle East, of Africa, Iraq, Iran, of Asia and
beyond, were not part of his remit.

Built in 1977 by architects Minoru Yamasaki Associates and Emery Roth and Sons,
the World Trade Centre towers were, at 110 storeys, for a short time, the
tallest buildings in the world.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: THIS HORROR WILL HAUNT US FOREVER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 187 words


TRAUMA experts last night said the Trade Centre outrage will haunt the world
forever.

Top British psychologist Leslie Carrick-Smith said the terrorist attack will put
across the message that nowhere in the world is safe.

He said: "This was intended to shake the concept of world order and it has done
so. People are never going to feel as safe again.

"It could have been Buckingham Palace or the Houses of Parliament. The World
Trade Centre is an icon of civilisation.

"If it can happen there, it can happen anywhere and people will slowly start to
comprehend this appalling pillage of democracy.

"This must be the most appalling event the world has ever seen. The
repercussions are going to go on forever."

Mr Carrick-Smith, a specialist in trauma for the British Psychological Society,
added: "I don't think the British public can begin to comprehend the scale of
what has happened. People will feel like they are caught up in some sort of
nightmare film or terrible dream.

"This is the work of fanatics who do not have the same values as ourselves. They
are beyond normal human reproach."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: RETALIATE, BUT HOW AND AT WHOM?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 320 words


THE whole world is asking: What happens next?

President George W Bush must strike back - but how and at whom?

Any sponsoring state can expect its capital to be bombed.

But Bush first has to discover who and where his targets are - from an
intelligence service that failed to predict yesterday's carnage.

A White House Situation Room will have accompanied Bush aboard Air Force One as
a matter of course when he set out for Sarasota, on Florida's Gulf coast, before
the Trade Centre was struck.

He thought it was to be a routine engagement.

But it will have been pressed into action for real as Bush consults allies -
principally Prime Minister Tony Blair and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon -
before deciding how America's massive lethal force will be used.

In the past, the US has prided itself on robust responses to terrorist assaults
on nationals.

In 1986, American planes used English airfields on their way to bomb Colonel
Gaddafi's Tripoli headquarters.

Terrorists acting under his protection had bombed a disco in Berlin packed with
off-duty US personnel.

And Margaret Thatcher gave the go-ahead for British involvement at Ronald
Reagan's request.

Bill Clinton ordered cruise missile strikes on Baghdad in 1993 for an alleged
Iraq plot to assassinate the first President Bush. Again, Britain approved.

In 1998, Tony Blair endorsed Clinton strikes against Afghanistan and the Sudan
in retaliation for US embassy bombings in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam.

Bush is sure to follow that pattern now that the US has come under sustained
attack.

Yesterday, he was as helpless as the rest of the world as scenes not witnessed
by Americans since Pearl Harbour were watched live by millions.

No group could ever be allowed to create such terror across "the greatest
country on Earth".

But for now, the unpredictability of this unseen enemy is all that's certain.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: URGENT SECURITY RETHINK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 152 words


TERRORISTS are "always one step ahead" of international security forces.

Now air chiefs worldwide are being forced to completely rethink security
measures in light of the World Trade Centre outrage.

The bombing of PamAm Flight 103 over Lockerbie, in which 270 people died, proved
fanatics are able to carry out terrorist atrocities almost with impunity.

Last night, Phil Butterworth-Hayes, civil aviation editor with the Janes
information group, warned: "When you get people determined to commit acts of
terrorism, it is almost impossible to stop them.

"Aviation thought that it had sorted out the bombs-in-holds problem after
Lockerbie, but now there is a fresh problem to resolve. But it could be some
time before new measures take effect."

Next year, Libyan Abdelbaset Al Megrahi is to appeal against his conviction for
murdering the 270 people who died at Lockerbie in December 1988.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: HUNT 'EM DOWN;
 WAR ON THE US

BYLINE: Cara Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12, 13

LENGTH: 1055 words


WORLD leaders reacted with horror to the US atrocities and vowed to fight
international terrorism.

American President George W Bush promised to "hunt down and find those folks who
committed this act".

He said: "Terrorism against this nation will not stand."

He ordered a massive effort to help the victims of the "national tragedy" and
promised a full investigation.

Bush was reading to a classroom of children in Florida when his Chief of Staff
Andrew Card whispered the dreadful news into his ear.

The president briefly turned sombre before he resumed reading.

He then flew back to Washington for an emergency meeting of the national
security council.

Prime Minister Tony Blair called on democracies worldwide to unite to fight "the
new evil" of mass terrorism.

Speaking to the TUC in Brighton, Blair sent his "deepest condolences" to Bush
and the American people for the "most terrible and shocking event".

He said: "This mass terrorism is the new evil in our world today. It is
perpetrated by fanatics utterly indifferent to the sanctity of human life."

He said it was the duty of democracies to "come together and fight it together
and eradicate this evil completely from our world". He then cancelled his
planned speech to return to London.

Last night, he chaired a meeting of the Cabinet emergency committee in Downing
Street.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, Home Secretary David Blunkett, Defence Secretary
Geoff Hoon and Chief of Defence Staff Admiral Sir Michael Boyce all attended.

The Queen, in Balmoral, expressed her "growing disbelief and total shock" as the
devastation unfolded.

In a message to Bush, she expressed "heartfelt sympathy" and said her thoughts
and prayers were with Americans.

Russian president Vladimir Putin called a meeting of his top security officials.
He sent a telegram to Bush expressing condolences over the "terrible tragedies".

He said: "I am deeply shocked. To all those who were hurt and the entire
American people, we understand quite well your grief and pain.

"Russians have felt the horror of terror themselves.

"Without doubt, such inhumane acts cannot remain unpunished and the entire world
community should pool efforts against terrorism."

Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, in Gaza City, said: "I send my condolences to
the president, the government and the people for this terrible incident.

"We are completely shocked. It's unbelievable."

US Secretary of State Colin Powell vowed that the terrorists would "never be
allowed to kill the spirit of democracy".

He said: "You can be assured that America will deal with this tragedy in a way
that brings those responsible to justice."

Straw said he had spoken to Powell about the attacks that were tragedies "for
peace and stability of the world". Straw said: "What we have all witnessed on
our television screens from America are acts of evil and horror beyond the
imagination of any of us.

"I have told the US government that we stand ready to give whatever help we can
to assist in tracking down the perpetrators behind this evil and ensuring that
they are brought to justice."

European Union foreign ministers will hold an emergency meeting today in
Brussels to discuss the attacks. French president Jacques Chirac called the
attacks "monstrous" and expressed his solidarity with the American people.

Irish premier Bertie Ahern condemned today's attacks in the US as "horrendous".

He added: "We offer our heartfelt condolences to President Bush and the American
people."

German chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, whose foreign officials held crisis talks,
said: "My government condemns these terrorist attacks to the utmost."

Spanish prime minister Jose Maria Aznar described the terrorism as the "greatest
threat that confronts all of us" and called a crisis cabinet meeting.

Italian president Carlo Azeglio Ciampi told Bush: "Italy is at the side of the
United States. The international community must respond together to this
abhorrent act."

Vojislav Kostunica, the president of Yugoslavia, was concerned over the
escalation of international terrorism.

He said: "Our views regarding terrorism will obviously have to change. It is not
only enormity of the attack, but a fundamental change from all terrorist attacks
seen so far."

The leaders of Northern Ireland's power-sharing executive expressed their
"horror and revulsion".

They said it was "hard to comprehend what could motivate anyone to cause such
misery, destruction and deliberate loss of human life".

And SDLP leader John Hume described the attacks as a "tragedy for all humanity".

In the Far East, Thai prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra watched the news in
disbelief, while Philippine president Gloria Macapagal Arroyo condemned the
attack.

The Pope also condemned the attack, prayed for the victims' souls and offered
his comfort to their families.

A statement from the Vatican said: "The Holy Father has been constantly informed
of the events of this enormous tragedy."

The pontiff was sending a message to President Bush expressing his solidarity
with the American people "in this time of suffering and trial", the statement
added.

We've had a national tragedy. There will be a full investigation to find out who
carried out this act. Terrorism against our nation will not stand

US PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH

It is with disbelief and total shock that I am learning of the outrages. Our
prayers are with you all

QUEEN ELIZABETH

Such inhumane acts cannot go unpunished and the world should pool their efforts
against terrorism

RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN

What we have witnessed are acts of evil and horror beyond the imagination of any
of us

FOREIGN SECRETARY JACK STRAW

These attacks are monstrous and we express our solidarity with the people there

FRENCH PRESIDENT JACQUES CHIRAC

The attacks on the US are horrendous. Our thoughts are with the families of the
victimsIRISH PREMIER

BERTIE AHERNThese are monstrous acts of terrorism. The thoughts of every Scot
are with the people of America

FIRST MINISTER HENRY McLEISH

This mass terrorism is the new evil in our world today. We are going to have to
fight this evil together and eradicate it completely from our world

PRIME MINISTER TONY BLAIR

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: UNHAPPY BIRTHDAY;
 IT WAS A MOVE THAT WOULD SET THE MIDDLE EAST ON THE ROAD TO CONFLICT - AND
SIGNAL THE BIRTH OF TERRORISM

BYLINE: Grace Mclean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12, 13

LENGTH: 906 words


YESTERDAY'S outrage marked the anniversary of the agreement which triggered an
Arab backlash.

September 11th, 1922 was the date that the British were entrusted by the League
of Nations to govern Palestine until it could be granted independence.

But part of that deal was to give a national home to Jews in Palestine.

It was a move that would set the Middle East on the road to conflict and signal
the birth of terrorism.

For Britain was unable to please either the Jews or the Arab population.

No matter how hard the British administration tried to play fair to both
communities, neither was happy.

The country slid toward an Arab-Israeli war with every passing year and British
soldiers were the victims of terrorist attacks from both sides.

Now for generations, religious, political and cultural differences have fuelled
friction between the West and the Arab world.

The reasons for violence have varied, though the Arabs' resentment at the
creation of a Jewish homeland was usually at the core of the tension.

Resentment

In 1948, as Britain was about to hand over its mandate in Palestine, Jews
fleeing post-War Europe were settling in their Promised Land, squeezing out
their Arab neighbours.

The Six Day war in 1967 was a turning point in the Middle East.

The growing tension between Israel and the Arabs states erupted into all-out war
on June 5.

Israeli planes launched pre-emptive strikes against the Arab air forces,
destroying 374 planes.

Troops then swept across the Sinai peninsula towards the Suez Canal, took the
Gaza Strip from Egypt and the biblical towns of Bethlehem and Hebron from
Jordan.

Egypt's Colonel Nasser accused the US and Britain of aiding Israel before
admitting defeat and accepting a UN cease-fire.

Israel then moved into Eastern Jerusalem after capturing it from the Jordanians.

Politicians vowed it would remain Israel's for ever.

Israeli troops advanced across the Sinai to the Suez Canal. They then began an
all-out offensive against Syria bombing Damascus and advancing into the Golan
Heights.Outraged Arabs formed the Palestinian Liberation Organisation, pledging
to fight for a Palestinian state and the Arab holy places in Jerusalem.

The conflict spread with Israel's attacks on Lebanon, where at various points
the PLO, and more extreme groups such as Hamas and church envoy Terry Waite's
kidnappers Hezbollah based themselves.

Despite numerous peace initiatives, the conflict between Israel and the
Palestinians has rumbled on.

Over the last 11 months, more than 600 people on the Palestinian side and 170 on
the Israeli side have died in the violence. Facing Israel's military might -
reinforced by the United States which Palestinians came to view as Israel's
collaborator in their repression - the Arab groups increasingly turned to
terrorism.

Aircraft hijackings and suicide missions have been favoured tactics. These
include:

September 1970 - Palestinians hijack three Western airliners to a desert
airstrip in Jordan. Passengers are released before the planes were blown up.

September 1972 - One of the most notorious Arab-inspired terrorist attacks came
at the Munich Olympics, when "Black September" Arab guerrillas took Israeli
athletes hostage with a demand that 200 Palestinians held in Israeli jails be
released.

The incident ended with a bungled rescue attempt at Munich's military airbase
where the terrorists thought they would be flying to freedom from.

In all 11 Israeli athletes, one policeman and five of the eight terrorists died.

June 1976 - An Air France airliner was hijacked to Entebbe in Uganda where three
civilians and an Israeli soldier were killed during a legendary rescue operation
by Israeli paratroopers. It saved the lives of more than 100 mainly Jewish
passengers.

April 1983 - the US embassy in Beirut is blown up and 17 Americans are killed.

Six months later Islamic Jihad, who kidnapped British journalist John McCarthy
was behind separate truck-bomb attacks in the city in which 242 American marines
and 58 French paratroops died.

November 1985 - Four gunmen seized an EgyptAir Boeing 737, forcing it to Malta.
Sixty people, including two hijackers, were killed when Egyptian commandos
stormed the plane.

December 1988 - a terrorist bomb blows up Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie
shortly after it left London en route to New York. In all, 270 people were
killed - all 259 on board and 11 more on the ground.

February 1993 - A car bomb left in an underground garage rocks the World Trade
Centre in New York killing five people, injuring more than 1000 and forcing
thousands to flee. Moslem extremists were blamed.

July 1994 - Ninety-six people die in a bombing at the Delegation of Argentine
Israeli Associations in Buenos Aires. Israel later bombed Hezbollah targets in
Lebanon in retaliation.

November 1997 - Egypt's Islamic Group massacred 58 foreign tourists, including
six Britons, visiting the temple in Luxor.

Six of the terrorist gunmen were shot dead by Egyptian police.

August 1998 - The bombings of US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania kill 257,
including 12 Americans, and injured thousands. The attacks are carried out by
terrorists linked to wealthy Saudi exile Osama bin Laden.

In response, the US launches cruise missile attacks against targets in
Afghanistan and Sudan said to be bin Laden's terrorist training camps.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: TORIES CALL A HALT TO ELECTION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 130 words


THE Tories yesterday suspended their leadership election for 24 hours as a mark
of respect after the outrage.

Outgoing leader William Hague said he had spoken to the leadership contenders,
Kenneth Clarke and Iain Duncan Smith, and cancelled a reception to welcome the
new party leader tonight.

The winner will instead be announced in a simple statement tomorrow.

Hague said the attack was a "monstrous act of war against the civilised world"
and offered his sympathies to families of the dead and injured

He added: "Britain must, and I am sure will, stand shoulder to shoulder with the
US and peaceful nations across the world in deploying every possible resource to
bring to justice the people responsible and to make sure that terrorism never
prevails."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: MSPSUNITE TO CONDEMN OUTRAGES

BYLINE: James Moncur

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 212 words


SCOTLAND's politicians joined forces last night to convey their horror at
yesterday's terrorist attacks on America.

In a hand-written letter to the American consulate in Edinburgh, the First
Minister described the mass destruction as "monstrous acts of terrorism".

He added: "Our deepest sympathies are with those whose loved ones have been
killed or injured and the thoughts of all Scots are with the people in America."

Henry McLeish then continued by vowing to deliver a statement in the Scottish
Parliament today expressing his "solidarity and sincere condolences" to the US.

Scottish Tory leader David McLetchie was also quick to offer his condolences to
shattered Americans.

He said: "This was not only an attack on the people of the US, but on democracy
itself.

"I trust the UK government will do all it can to assist the US to bring those
responsible to account."

Deputy First Minister and Scots Lib Dem leader Jim Wallace said: "Such an
outrage almost defies belief and must be condemned by all who value democracy
and liberty."

SNP leader John Swinney added: "This is a moment when all democratic nations
must stand together in the face of such desperate acts and ensure terrorists do
not succeed in these despicable acts."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: STOCKS FALL AS MARKETS FEAR CHAOS

BYLINE: Charlie Gall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 220 words


THE world's money markets closed down in turmoil in the wake of the terrorist
attacks.

London's Stock Exchange was closed amid fears it could become a target as the
FTSE-100 index collapsed, closing down 287.7 at 4746.0.

At the same time, the price of oil was going through the roof as the world
anxiously awaited America's reaction to yesterday's atrocity.

One Scottish-based financial expert said: "The FTSE has collapsed through the
floor - that's it's lowest close for some time. It's not surprising the oil
price is going through the roof.

"We don't know how America will retaliate and in the event of reprisals, even
war, oil would become a scarce commodity."

The US dollar fell in European trading and gold rose sharply.

The World Trade Centre and nearby World Financial Centre are home to many firms.

Mike Lenhoff, at broker Gerrard, said: "It throws the whole market into chaos.
Nobody really knows the US response. I think it is going to be pretty severe.

"The oil price is now almost 30 dollars a barrel compared with 27.50 earlier
this morning."

The worst-hit shares were those in airlines, banks and insurers.

Meanwhile, America's entertainment industry, including Disney and Universal
theme parks in Hollywood and Florida, were closed in the wake of the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: US GEARS UP FOR BACKLASH

BYLINE: Nathan Yates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 139 words


DEFENCE experts predicted a speedy counterstrike against the terror onslaught
last night. Several said spies would be working overtime to identify a target.

Analyst Paul Beaver said: "There is talk about retaliation but the US must find
out who was responsible."

President Bush made no secret of his desire for retribution last night as he
jetted off for a council of war.

He said: "Make no mistake, the United States will hunt down and punish those
responsible.

"The resolve of our great nation is being tested and we will show the world that
we will pass this test."

But concerns he was "just the man to over-react and cause World War III" were
voiced by ex-British army officer Mike Yardley.

He said: "The US could play right into the hands of the terrorists who may be
backed by others, like Iraq."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: 21ST CENTURY WAR;
 THE SECRET KILLERS COULD BE FACE OF CONFLICTS TO COME

BYLINE: Simon Houston And Paul Andrew

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 735 words


AMERICAN defence experts believe they have already lost a 21st century war.

Yesterday's atrocities have also cast doubt over President Bush's entire foreign
policy - or lack of it.

One US defence source said last night: "This outrage is how modern warfare will
be fought. No troops, no battlefields - just invisible enemies who can strike at
the heart of the most powerful country in the world, and then disappear without
trace.

"This is a 21st century war and we have lost it."

This morning, the American public is asking how so much money - around $ 26
billion - can be spent on intelligence, yet the country can be brought to its
knees so easily.

They are now living with the reality that their country is under threat from a
new type of war.

This morning Americans feel vulnerable and scared. A nation made confident by
the might of its military, by the vastness of its wealth and by its rock-solid
commitment to democracy, has had that confidence shattered not by cruise
missiles or navy fleets, but by a few terrorists who were willing to trade their
lives for the terror which their actions would wreak.

Now the American public will turn to their president.

It is in the very nature of the American people that in a moment of crisis they
turn to their elected leader. The chaos of Florida will be forgotten. Party
affiliation set aside. The citizens look to be led.

In the coming days and hours George W. Bush, a man whose very presidency has
been labelled a sham and a steal by many, will be called upon to give his nation
the leadership it craves.

In the way Roosevelt guided America through Pearl Harbor and Kennedy spoke to
the fears and hopes of this country at the height of the Cold War during the
Cuban Missile Crisis, Bush will be expected to soothe, to steer and to reassure.

But just as this is a new kind of attack on America, it will demand a new form
of response.

This is terrorism, there is no obvious target for retaliation. Yet America
demands a villain.

Before leaving his position as FBI director, the embattled Louis Freeh made
clear this year that his greatest fear was not an attack from overseas, but from
the growing number of terrorist cells within the United States.

A nation blinded by fear may fail to see fact that a missile defence shield will
never stop this sort of terrorist attack.

But they are likely to be used as evidence of the need for President Bush's
missile defence scheme - Son of Star Wars - which is likely to have implications
for Britain.

Though the attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon saw the terrorists
use hijacked airliners rather than missiles, the fact that the attacks came from
the skies could strengthen the hand of those in the US administration who want
this shield.

The Americans, however, might be better looking at the performance of the
Central Intelligence Agency, supposedly the world's leading spy organisation.

Last night, White House chiefs were trying to understand how the USA was "caught
with its pants down" in such devastating style .

The CIA's failure was made even worse by the fact that they had been warned as
recently as three weeks ago that such an attack was being planned and were
supposedly on full alert.

The CIA are given a fortune to gather information designed to protect America
and her citizens from threats from abroad.

They are also tasked with protecting American embassies, military bases and
multi-million dollar business interests overseas.

The operation ranges from the world's most advanced satellites - capable of
being able to read a car registration plate from 200 miles in space - to high-
flying spy planes, and aircraft designed to eavesdrop all phone transmissions
and radio signals worldwide.

They also employ thousands of paid informers and infiltrators who are supposed
to feed them advanced information about plans to attack the USA or any of its
interests around the globe.

But the CIA have a long history of failure.

They didn't predict Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait in 1990 that sparked the
Gulf War.

After massive American and British attacks forced Iraq to retreat the following
year, the CIA confidently predicted they would topple Saddam by stirring up an
internal revolution.

But the CIA plans failed again, leaving Saddam still defiantly in charge of his
country to this day.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: ATTACK IS WAKE-UP CALL TO THE WORLD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 313 words


THE devastation in the US serves as a wake-up call to world leaders who now know
that global terrorists can strike anywhere, any time - with horrific results.

Last night, the Western nations moved quickly to shore up their defences,
turning the United States into a virtual fortress.

NATO pledged the US can count on the support of all member nations in the war
against terrorism - a battle that "all civilised nations must win".

The Alliance issued its declaration during an emergency meeting. Its governing
North Atlantic Council said the, "mindless slaughter of so many innocent
civilians is an unacceptable act of violence without precedent in the modern
era."

It added: "It underscored the urgency of intensifying the battle against
terrorism, a battle that the NATO countries - indeed all civilised nations -
must win."

Meanwhile, key EU officials rushed to Brussels at short notice yesterday and
called emergency meetings to discuss how they can help the United States.

Foreign ministers of the 15 member states will meet early this morning to look
at how Europe can aid the US in coping with the attacks and investigating who
was behind them.

The EC will also meet in an emergency session.

President Bush also put all American military forces overseas on high alert last
night.

The US European Command in Stuttgart said it was taking "prudent and immediate
steps" to ensure the safety and security of US forces and their families based
in Europe.

On the southern Japanese island of Okinawa, home to more than half of the 47,000
US troops stationed in Japan, military television and radio bulletins announced
that all units had been ordered to the highest of five states of alert.

In Hawaii the National Guard was partially mobilised and all personnel assigned
to ships and submarines at Pearl Harbor were ordered to report.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: THIS WILL HAUNT US FOREVER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 400 words


TRAUMA experts last night said the World Trade Centre outrage will haunt the
world forever.

Top British psychologist Leslie Carrick-Smith said the terrorist attack will put
across the message that nowhere in the world is safe.

He said: "This was intended to shake the concept of world order and it has done
so. People are never going to feel as safe again.

"It could have been Buckingham Palace or the Houses of Parliament. The World
Trade Centre is an icon of civilisation.

"If it can happen there, it can happen anywhere and people will slowly start to
comprehend this appalling pillage of democracy.

"This must be the most appalling event the world has ever seen. The
repercussions are going to go on forever."

Mr Carrick-Smith, a specialist in trauma for the British Psychological Society,
added: "I don't think the British public can begin to comprehend the scale of
what has happened.

"People will feel like they are caught up in some sort of nightmare film or
terrible dream."

Mr Carrick-Smith, who said he took families to the death scene after the
Hillsborough disaster, added: "This is the work of fanatics who do not have the
same values as ourselves. They are beyond normal human reproach."

Dr Michael Isaac, a consultant psychiatrist at London's Maudsley Hospital and a
senior lecturer at King's College in London, warned that people across the world
would now be at risk of post-traumatic stress disorder.

He said: "Anyone who has watched the pictures on TV can hardly fail to be
affected by it. Once people go beyond shock they often develop post-traumatic
stress disorder.

"People will re-experience the trauma through repeated nightmares or daytime
flashbacks.

"They will also become extremely over-vigilant. If they hear a loud bang or
aircraft flying overhead they will jump out of their skin.

"I think many British people will have a lot of difficulty getting these
horrific images out of their minds.

"Post traumatic stress disorder can go on for years - some may never get over
it."

He predicted that thousands of New Yorkers will "alter their entire way of life"
in the aftermath of the tragedy.

He said that many who watched the terror unfold would avoid experiencing
triggers that might cause them to relive it.

He added: "I expect many will move away from the city and some might never get
on an aircraft again."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: TORIES CALL A HALT TO ELECTION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 80 words


THE Tories yesterday suspended their leadership election for 24 hours as a mark
of respect after the Trade Centre outrage.

Outgoing leader William Hague described the events in America as a "monstrous
act of war against the civilised world" and sent out his sympathies to the
families of those killed or injured.

Hague added that he had cancelled a reception to welcome the new party leader
tonight and said the winner would be revealed in a simple statement tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: HUNT THESE FOLKS DOWN;
 BUSH VOW AS WORLD'S LEADERS HIT OUT OVER OUTRAGE

BYLINE: Cara Page

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 11

LENGTH: 1137 words


WORLD leaders reacted with horror to the US atrocities and vowed to fight
international terrorism.

American President George W Bush promised to "hunt down and find those folks who
committed this act".

He said: "Terrorism against this nation will not stand."

He ordered a massive effort to help the victims of the "national tragedy" and
promised a full investigation.

Bush was reading to a classroom full of children in Florida when his Chief of
Staff Andrew Card whispered the dreadful news into his ear.

The president briefly turned sombre before he resumed reading.

He then flew back to Washington for an emergency meeting of the national
security council.

Prime Minister Tony Blair called on democracies worldwide to unite to fight "the
new evil" of mass terrorism.

Speaking to the TUC in Brighton, Blair sent his "deepest condolences" to Bush
and the American people for the "most terrible and shocking event".

He said: "This mass terrorism is the new evil in our world today. It is
perpetrated by fanatics utterly indifferent to the sanctity of human life."

He said it was the duty of democracies to "come together and fight it together
and eradicate this evil completely from our world".

He then cancelled his planned speech to return to London.

Last night, he chaired a meeting of the Cabinet emergency committee in Downing
Street.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, Home Secretary David Blunkett, Defence Secretary
Geoff Hoon and Chief of Defence Staff Admiral Sir Michael Boyce all attended.

The Queen, in Balmoral, expressed her "growing disbelief and total shock" as
devastation unfolded.

In a message to Bush, she expressed "heartfelt sympathy" and said her thoughts
and prayers were with Americans.

Russian president Vladimir Putin called a meeting of his top security officials.
He sent a telegram to Bush expressing condolences over the "terrible tragedies".
He said: "I am deeply shocked. To all those who were hurt and the entire
American people, we understand quite well your grief and pain.

"Russians have felt the horror of terror themselves.

"Without doubt, such inhumane acts cannot remain unpunished and the entire world
community should pool efforts against terrorism."

Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, in Gaza City, said: "I send my condolences to
the president, the government and the people for this terrible incident.

"We are completely shocked. It's unbelievable."

US Secretary of State Colin Powell vowed that the terrorists would "never be
allowed to kill the spirit of democracy".

He said: "You can be assured that America will deal with this tragedy in a way
that brings those respon-sible to justice."

Straw said he had spoken to Powell about the attacks that were tragedies "for
peace and stability of the world". Straw said: "What we have all witnessed on
our television screens from America are acts of evil and horror beyond the
imagination of any of us.

"I have told the US government that we stand ready to give whatever help we can
to assist in tracking down the perpetrators behind this evil and ensuring that
they are brought to justice."

First Minister Henry McLeish wrote to the American consulate in Edinburgh,
describing the events as "monstrous acts of terrorism".

He said the thoughts of everyone in Scotland were with the American people.

SNP leader John Swinney MSP said: "There can be absolutely no justification for
terrorist activity of any type and an attack on this scale is an attack on the
democratic world.

"This is a moment when all democratic nations must stand together in the face of
such desperate acts and ensure terrorists do not succeed."

Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy said: "We offer our profound sympathies
to the US public and to the families of the countless numbers that must have
been killed and injured in this blatant set of attacks.

"The international democratic community must come together as never before to
see down the forces of sheer evil that perpetrate such crimes."

European Union foreign ministers will hold an emergency meeting today in
Brussels to discuss the attacks.

French president Jacques Chirac called the attacks "monstrous" and expressed his
solidarity with the American people.

Irish premier Bertie Ahern condemned today's attacks in the US as "horrendous".

He added: "We offer our heartfelt condolences to President Bush and the American
people."

German chancellor Gerhard Schroeder, whose foreign officials held crisis talks,
said: "My government condemns these terrorist attacks to the utmost."

Spanish prime minister Jose Maria Aznar described the terrorism as the "greatest
threat that confronts all of us" and called a crisis cabinet meeting.

Italian president Carlo Azeglio Ciampi told Bush: "Italy is at the side of the
United States. The international community must respond together to this
abhorrent act."

Vojislav Kostunica, the president of Yugoslavia, was concerned over the
escalation of international terrorism.

He said: "Our views regarding terrorism will obviously have to change. It is not
only enormity of the attack, but a fundamental change from all terrorist attacks
seen so far."

The leaders of Northern Ireland's power-sharing Executive expressed their
"horror and revulsion".

They said it was "hard to comprehend what could motivate anyone to cause such
misery, destruction and deliberate loss of human life".

And SDLP leader John Hume described the attacks as a "tragedy for all humanity".

In the Far East, Thai prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra watched the news in
disbelief, while Philippine president Gloria Macapagal Arroyo condemned the
attack.

We've had a national tragedy. There will be a full investigation to find out who
carried out this act. Terrorism against our nation will not stand

US PRESIDENT GEORGE BUSH

This mass terrorism is the new evil in our world today. We are going to have to
fight this evil together and eradicate it completely from our world

PRIME MINISTER TONY BLAIR

It is with disbelief and total shock that I am learning of the outrages. Our
prayers are with you all

QUEEN ELIZABETH

Such inhumane acts cannot go unpunished and the world should pool their efforts
against terrorism

RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN

What we have witnessed are acts of evil and horror beyond the imagination of any
of us

FOREIGN SECRETARY JACK STRAW

These attacks are monstrous and we express our solidarity with the people
thereFRENCH PRESIDENT JACQUES CHIRAC

The attacks on the US are horrendous. Our thoughts are with the families of the
victimsIRISH PREMIER

BERTIE AHERNThese are monstrous acts of terrorism. The thoughts of every Scot
are with the people of America

FIRST MINISTER HENRY McLEISH

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

NEW YORK TERRORIST ATTACKS: BIG APPLE CHANGED FOR EVER

BYLINE: Linda Barr, Former Daily Record Jounalist

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 199 words


I WATCHED in disbelief yesterday as I saw the New York sky-line - and the city
itself - changed for all time.

With possibly tens of thousands lying dead on the streets, thieves raided stores
as shopkeepers stood with the crowds on the streets.

Panic mounted as the reality of the situation sunk in.

I was among the thousands of New Yorkers whose day stopped shortly before 9am.
I'd just got off the subway at 6th Avenue.

It was a beautiful, sunny day but. suddenly, everyone on the street turned as
they heard a loud bang and clouds of thick, black smoke poured out of the top of
one of the World Trade Centre towers.

People stood for a second in a stunned, eerie silence, which was slowly broken
by gasps and cries of complete and utter disbelief.

Drivers got out of their cars to join the commuters on the streets staring at
the smoking building.

As we watched from 30 blocks away, a second explosion erupted in the side of the
other tower and a ball of flame shot out. Within minutes, radio news reports
said that it was a passenger jet.

The sound of sirens is echoing around the city and we all wait for news. None of
us can belief that this has happened.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

NEW YORK TERRORIST ATTACKS: WE RAN FOR OUR LIVES.. IT WAS LIKE A WAR ZONE OUT
THERE;
 VICTIMS TELL OF DESPERATE ESCAPE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 757 words


IT WAS a scene straight out of a nightmare - people on fire jumped in terror
from the Twin Towers seconds before the buildings collapsed.

On the streets below, the panic spread as the full reality of the horror began
to sink in.

People wandered dazed and terrified. Dust and dirt flew everywhere. Ash was two
to three inches deep in places.

Fire marshal Mike Smith said: "Everyone was screaming, crying, running, cops,
people, firefighters, everyone.

"A couple of marshals just picked me up and dragged me down the street.

"It's like a war zone."

Newsman Dunstan Prial described a strange sucking sound from the Trade Centre
buildings after the first tower collapsed. He said: "Windows shattered. People
were screaming and diving for cover. They walked around like ghosts, covered in
dirt, weeping and wandering dazed."

One eyewitness, weeping and his face covered in ash, said: "I saw two people
jump from the top. They just fell to their deaths. Oh man, it was awful."

Nearby, a crowd mobbed a man on a pay-phone, screaming at him to get off the
phone so that they could call relatives.

Sirens wailed as people stumbled along roads strewn with debris.

Twisted chunks of metal and huge chunks of mortar lay on the ground as thousands
of sheets of paper blew across the streets.

Some witnesses collapsed in the street. One man was given a heart massage by
city police.

A woman wept: "People were jumping out of windows. I guess people were trying to
save themselves."

Chaos

One man who had been in the World Trade Centre before the planes crashed into it
said: "There was a big explosion, some guy came out, his skin was all off, I
helped him out.

"I saw 13, 14 people jumping out of windows."

He added: "Ten minutes later, the second building went off, it just blew up, a
big explosion, people started running, there was chaos everywhere."

Bob Rendine, who works at the nearby American Stock Exchange, said: "At the
point of explosions, all you could see outside were personal belongings and
office supplies raining down."

Commuter Joan Goldstein was on a bus from New Jersey when she saw smoke pouring
out of the World Trade Centre building.

Trembling and crying, she said: "All of a sudden, there was an orange plume, a
huge explosion. It shot out the back of the building.

"Everybody on the bus was just moaning and gasping. It was the most horrible
thing I've ever seen in my life."

James Winter, 30, a British worker living in an apartment close to the centre,
said: "I was in bed and there was a huge explosion.

"The whole building rattled and shook.

"I ran to the window and there was smoke billowing from the south side of one of
the towers.

"Everyone in my building was panicking and running around. It is just
unbelievable that this is happening."

British reporter Hugh Dougherty, of the Press Association, said: "I was 200
yards from the World Trade Centre, an hour after the first blast, when it
collapsed.

"There was a huge bang followed by utter silence, which seemed to last forever,
and then smoke and debris flew down the street.

"People were running, trying to outpace the huge black cloud but failing. I saw
one man with a bloody wound to his head fall.

"I hid in a doorway unable to see even in front of my eyes, which were filling
with black debris. And as I stood something whistled past my head and landed
with a crash.

"Beside me, a man was trying to kick in the door to gain shelter but it would
not give and he stood crying, beating his fists against the glass.

"Further away, in the silence, someone was crying for help, at first loudly and
then whimpering.

"I walked down Broadway, New York's main thoroughfare, and a man walked up to me
and said, crying: "Have you seen my kids? Have you seen my kids?'"

British ex-pat Jon Loutit, 26, was working on Manhattan island as the two
passenger planes hit.

The marketing executive, who works for British firm OHAL just streets from the
catastrophe, said: "New York is like a timebomb - it feels like the whole place
is going to go up any minute.

"Everyone is frozen in fear and in a state of sheer disbelief. All you can do to
look up in the sky and keep your fingers crossed.

"Every American regards the World Trade Centre as unshakeable but then to view a
skyline without those twin towers is unbelievable. Reports and rumours are
flying around and you just don't know what is going to happen next."

"I would imagine it is like how the Blitz was."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

NEW YORK TERRORIST ATTACKS: I WAS DUE ON DOOMED TOWERS FLIGHT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 205 words


CRAIG MacFarland buried his head in his arms at Boston's Logan Airport as he
realised he had brushed with death in the terrorist atrocity.

The Los Angeles resident had been due to fly to the city on Flight 11, one of
the planes which crashed into the World Trade Centre.

But he exchanged his ticket at the last minute and saved his life.

Scots TV news presenter Kirsty Young only learned her husband, in New York on
business, was safe only seconds before she went on air to report the tragedy.

Millionaire restaurateur Nick Jones then went live on air to tell of the scenes
of horror unfolding near him.

Jones was in Soho, close to the World Trade Centre and told his wife, who
recently gave birth to their first daughter: "No one here can take in what has
happened.

"You have this horrible feeling something else is going to happen." The Duchess
of York avoided the Trade Centre disaster by minutes.

She was due to visit her charity, Chances for Children, based in one of the
doomed towers.

But she had not yet set off across New York to the building when the planes
struck.

Then her ex-husband Prince Andrew had his British Airways flight to Atlanta,
Georgia, turned back over the Atlantic.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: PALESTINIANS TAKE TO THE STREETS IN CELEBRATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 270 words


PALESTINIANS celebrated yesterday's atrocities, chanting "God is great" and
handing out sweets to passers-by.

And the head of an Islamic organisation in London said the terrorist attacks on
the US would bring joy to fundamentalists throughout the world.

The US government has become increasingly unpopular in the West Bank and Gaza
Strip in the past year of Israeli-Palestinian fighting, with many Palestinians
accusing Washington of siding with Israel.

In the West Bank town of Nablus yesterday, thousands of people poured into the
streets shortly after the attacks.

Demonstrators distributed sweets in a traditional gesture of celebration as
Palestinian gunmen fired shots into the air.

Nawal Abdel Fatah, 48, said she was happy because "America is the head of the
snake, America always stands by Israel in its war against us".

Her daughter Maysoon, 22, said she hoped the next attack would be launched
against Tel Aviv. In traditionally-Arab east Jerusalem, adults led young
children in chants, while passing drivers honked their horns and flashed victory
signs.

In London, Sheik Abu Hamza - the leader of supporters of Shariah - said the
attacks were the price the US had to pay for supporting Israel.

He added: "The US have designed policy in such a way that things like this are
always going to happen.

"It is similar to describe a pressure cooker with no valve. The pressure will
build up and up and explode like it has today.

"Being a superpower doesn't mean you can contaminate the rest of the world.

"Many people will be happy, jumping up and down at this moment."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK/WASHINGTON: SO WHO DID GIVE ORDERS?;
 TERROR BOSS BIN LADEN IS PRIME SUSPECT

BYLINE: Steve Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 834 words


EXPERTS last night blamed Osama bin Laden for the worst terrorist atrocity in
history.

Reports last night suggested the world's most wanted man had warned three weeks
ago of "an unprecedented" attack over America's support for Israel.

While the list of obvious suspects is under investigation by the FBI, bin Laden
will be top.

But Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein is also thought to have the necessary links
with terrorists around to have arranged the attacks.

Early on, the finger was pointed at Islamic group the Democratic Front for the
Liberation of Palestine - the claims were later denied by its leadership.

Middle East expert Professor Efraim Karsh said the US disaster was the "most
significant" terrorist attack in history.

At 8.57am, the twin towers were standing proudly - by 10.27am they had
collapsed.

In the wake of the US tragedy, he stressed that Britain was also not safe from a
similar atrocity.

Professor Karsh, of King's College London, said: "It shows they could blow up
Big Ben, just because Jack Straw says something they don't like.

"They are ruthless fanatics who will attack anyone they see as supporting
Israel.

"If they can do this to the World Trade Centre, then they can strike almost
anywhere."

Professor Karsh said the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine is
part of the Palestine Liberation Organisation, led by Yasser Arafat.

Professor Karsh said: "If it is this group, then Arafat must be held
responsible, even if not directly.

"He is the head of the PLO and they belong to his organisation.

"Politically, it is the most significant terrorist attack in history because it
was a direct attack on the USA on a massive scale."

Terrorism expert David Capatanchik, based at Aberdeen University, said: "I am
totally gobsmacked.

"I do not think it is the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine
because I really don't think they have the capabilities to carry out something
like this.

"It is very difficult to point the finger at anyone because of the magnitude of
what has happened.

"The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine General Command are an
interesting group because they are the ones which a lot of people thought were
behind the Lockerbie bombing.

"Bin Laden is a definite possibility because he presides over all sorts of
groups around the world.

"His Islamic groups may certainly be capable of carrying out such an atrocity.

"If the Americans think bin Laden is responsible for this then you can expect
them to just go in and bomb Afghanistan.

"This is the spectacular to end all spectaculars and makes what the IRA did pale
into insignificance."

Another leading expert believes the attack could have been carried out by a
newly formed Palestinian terrorist group.

Professor Victor Bulmer-Thomas, of the Royal Institute of Inter-national
Affairs, said the future of US national security was now at grave risk.

He said: "Though the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine would like
to claim responsibility for this attack it is unlikely that it was them.

"This attack was astonishing in the high level of sophistication it required.

"It involved breaching US airport security, electronic equipment and radar and
that would need an extremely high level of funding and manpower.

"Osama bin Laden has a track record for this kind of thing and has a much bigger
organisation at his disposal, one that could be capable of something of this
scale.

"It is still hard to imagine that it could be bin Laden or any other large
Islamic group that we know of.

"All of those organisations are watched very closely by the US and it would be
very strange if there was no prior warning.

"With that in mind, I would say that it is highly possible that this attack was
carried out by a new organisation, one that security forces have not heard of.
After the Oklahoma bombing a few years ago we must be cautious about attributing
blame at such an early stage.

"Having said that, it is clear that recent events in Israel and the Middle East
have generated anger amongst Palestinian groups."

Another expert in Middle East politics said it would not be the first time that
terrorist groups had tried to use passenger jets as bombs.

Dr George Joffe of Cambridge University said that in 1994 a group called
Gamiyaat Islamiyya, who have also carried out a terrorist attack on the World
Trade Centre, tried to crash land a passenger jet on Paris.

He said: "The group captured an Air France jet at Algiers airport and flew to
Marseilles - probably for refuelling.

"They said that the plane was going to be dropped on the Eiffel Tower. But the
army stormed the plane and killed the gunmen."

And he warned: "Do not forget Waco. Do not forget Oklahoma City.

"The organisation this has taken is phenomenal and makes me think it is not a
Palestinian group.

"The attack may well have originated from a militia group inside the USA."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: THE AIRCRAFT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 264 words


Four passenger jets, carrying a total of 266 people, brought mayhem to the US on
the day of national disaster

FLIGHT NO 77

FLIGHT NO 11

THE planes which slammed into the World Trade Centre were thought to be American
Airlines flights.

The first to crash into the towers was Flight 11, which was hijacked on its way
from Logan Airport in Boston to Los Angeles.

The 767 jet was carrying 81 passengers, nine crew and two pilots, although the
plane has the space to carry up to 267 passengers on a fully-laden flight.

It's thought the second plane was an American Airlines flight bound for Los
Angeles.

Flight 77 was seized after leaving Washington DC.

It was carrying 58 passengers, four crew and two pilots.

The jet, seen by millions on TV hitting the second tower in a ball of fire, was
a 757.

FLIGHT NO 93

FORTY-FIVE people were on board United Airlines Flight 93, which crashed about
80 miles south-east of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

The fate of those on board the Boeing 757 was not immediately known and it was
not clear last night if the crash was related to the others.

The plane was travelling from Newark Airport, just outside New York, to San
Francisco.

FLIGHT NO 175

THE plane that brought devastation to the heart of America's military by
striking at the Pentagon was a Boeing 767.

When it struck, Flight 175 collapsed one side of the famous five-sided structure
in Washington DC.

American Airlines confirmed there were 65 people on board the flight from Boston
to Los Angeles when the terrorists hijacked it.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: HOW DID TERROR TEAM STRIKE AT THE US?

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 406 words


ONE question was baffling the world last night - just how did they do it?

How did a group of terrorists manage to hijack the airliners and deliberately
fly them into America's greatest landmark?

Defence experts believe the terrorists had trained pilots in their hijack teams.

A senior RAF source said: "The pilots would most likely have been recruited from
the armed forces, trained in the Middle East to fly fighters such as the MiG 29,
Mirages, or MiG 21.

"They may even have had training on flight simulators supplied by companies like
Boeing or Airbus, which have been sold worldwide.

"This is clearly a plot that has been months, probably years, in the planning."

The terrorists are believed to have chosen internal flights because of lower
security screening.

It is also thought they chose planes leaving on long-haul flights to the west
coast because they would be carrying at least 100 tons of fuel.

The terror teams probably involved at least two men.

The FBI believe tickets, probably business class to put them closer to the
flight deck, were bought in advance, using "cloned" credit cards.

They are also working on the theory that the terrorists used "sleepers" -
sympathisers who have taken jobs at airports.

Guns may have been slipped under designated seats by cleaners or ground crew .

Kieran Daly, editor of Air Transport Intelligence UK, said: "An enormous amount
of planning must have gone into this attack.

"Planes have been hijacked before but the question here is: can you hijack more
than one at a time in a co-ordinated manner? It's a tough task."

Mr Daly agreed they would also have needed an experienced pilot on board.

He said: "It's not as easy to crash a plane into a building as it sounds.

"The cruising altitude would have been around 30,000 feet. You would have to
dive the plane to the ground.

"These planes are not made for this. They very rapidly pick up far too much
speed to control."

"It is inconceivable that they forced the airline pilots to fly to their own
destruction.

"The response of those pilots when confronted would have been, 'OK, so shoot
me.'

"They had to be prepared for that eventuality. Too much planning has gone in for
them not to have covered every possibility.

" They may well have killed the pilots and co-pilots first and then installed
their own "kamikaze" pilots to guide the jets to their targets."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: HOLLYWOOD NIGHTMARE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 129 words


THE scenes in New York and Washington unfolded like a grisly action movie. But
this time it wasn't make-believe.

Yesterday's horrific events sparked chilling echoes of dozens of Hollywood
movies.

When we see the White House and Empire State Building destroyed by aliens in
Independence Day, the atrocity of September 11, 2001, will spring to mind.

In movieland, a hero - like Will Smith in Independence Day - saves the world.
But there was no saviour to prevent yesterday's carnage.

The tragedy has chilling echoes of Tom Clancey's 1994 book, Debt of Honour, in
which a kamikaze 747 pilot flies into the White House.

Yet no writer or film director could have dreamt such an appalling disaster
could ever be anything but fiction - until yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: HIJACK TEAMS FLEW THE PLANES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 261 words


THE terrorists who hijacked four planes and attacked the World Trade Centre and
the Pentagon must have had their own pilots, experts said yesterday.

And they added that it was a scheme that was not in any of the scenarios
envisioned by national security officials.

Gene Poteat, president of the Association of Former Intelligence Officers, said
"They flew the planes themselves.

"No pilot, even with a gun to his head, is going to fly into the World Towers."

Poteat said the hijackers used the planes as weapons, adding that they may also
have had the ability to disable communications systems used to alert the
authorities to trouble.

He added: "This has been an enormously long-planned and obviously carefully
planned operation."

Steven Emerson of the Investigative Project, a research group on international
terrorism, said the massive planning involved was far beyond anything conceived
by counter-terrorism officials, who have focused on preventing individual
attacks.

He said: "No one thought there was a capability of doing simultaneous attacks,
so none of the counter-terrorism scenarios ever envisioned this.

"The authorities have examined the chances of individual attacks on high
-profile targets such as the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon, including an
attack on a large building using a commandeered plane.

But most research examining the potential for attacks causing devastating loss
of life has focused on chemical or biological means.

"To the extent that we know now, this is relatively low technology."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

WASHINGTON TERRORIST ATTACK: CENTRE OF AMERICA'S POWER

BYLINE: Robert Fairburn And Ian Dow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 501 words


THE Pentagon is the very heart of America's massive military might.

Around 23,000 people work there and it has three times the floor space of the
Empire State Building in New York.

The huge five-sided office complex is as much a symbol of the world's greatest
super-power as the United States' formidable array of weapons.

For any terror group to hit the Pentagon in Arlington County, near Washington
DC, is to deliver a stinging blow to US pride.

It also rams home the brutal message that for all its warplanes, missiles, tanks
and aircraft carriers, the US is vulnerable to the attacks of dedicated fanatics
who are willing to lose their own lives for their cause.

It is the headquarters of the US Department of Defence and all three armed
services Army, Navy and Air Force.

It was designed by George Edwin Bergstrom and built in 1941-43 to gather all the
scattered US War Department into one structure. When it was completed it was the
largest office building in the world, covering 34 acres and offering 3.7million
square feet of usable floor space.

It consists of five concentric pentagons, or "rings" with spoke-like corridors
connecting the whole.

The offices of the inner rings are those of the most senior military personnel.

The Pentagon is virtually a city in itself.

The 23,000 employees - both military and civilian - arrive by 30 miles of access
highways, including express bus lanes and one of America's most modern subway
systems. They ride past 200 acres of lawn to park 8770 cars in 16 parking areas.
More than 200,000 telephone calls are made daily through phones connected by
100,000 miles of telephone cable.

Its defence post office handles about 1.2million pieces of mail monthly and the
various libraries provide 300,000 publications and 1700 periodicals in various
languages.

The Pentagon also contains 131 stairways and 19 escalators to reach the offices,
which boast 284 toilets, 4200 clocks and 691 water fountains.

Catering staff number 230 with one dining room, two cafeterias, six snack bars
and an outdoor snack bar.

It is still regarded as one of the most efficient office buildings in the world.

Despite 17.5 miles of corridors, it takes only seven minutes to walk between any
two points in the b uilding.

The original site was nothing more than wasteland swamps and dumps.

A total of 5.5million cubic yards of earth and 41,492 concrete piles contributed
to the foundation of the building.

Additionally 680,000 tons of sand and gravel, dredged from the nearby Potomac
River were processed into 435,000 cubic yards of concrete and moulded into the
Pentagon form.

The building was constructed in the remarkably short time of 16 months and
completed on January 15, 1943, at an approximate cost of $ 83million.

Due to the sensitive nature of its business, The Pentagon has a highly
sophisticated security system.

But it proved just as vulnerable to a suicide attacker as the World Trade Centre
towers.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

WASHINGTON TERRORIST ATTACK: IT WAS A FIREBALL ..A HUGE ORANGE FIREBALL;
  PENTAGON DEVASTATED BY DIRECT HIT FROM HIJACKED 767

BYLINE: Grace Mclean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 996 words


THE PENTAGON took a direct, devastating hit when a hijacked aircraft crashed
into the nerve centre of the US military.

It was targeted just 50 minutes after the first attack on the World Trade
Centre.

The crash, described by one witness as "a fireball, a huge orange fireball",
demolished one of the building's famous five sides.

Another hijacked plane crashed 80 miles from Pittsburgh, with more than 45
people on board.

An emergency phone operator in Pennsylvania received a mobile phone call from a
man who said he was a passenger locked in the bathroom of United Flight 93, a
Boeing 757.

Dispatch supervisor Glenn Cramer claimed the passenger said: "We are being
hijacked, we are being hijacked!"

Cramer added: "The man said the plane was going down. He heard some sort of
explosion and saw white smoke coming from the plane and we lost contact with
him."

The fate of the passengers was not immediately known.

There was speculation last night that this, the fourth hijacked plane, could
have been heading for the White House in Washington.

The reason for the crash in Pittsburgh was unclear.

It may have been the result of a struggle between the hijackers and the pilot,
it may have been brought down by an inexperienced hijacker - or perhaps even
shot down by the US military to prevent a greater disaster.

Earlier, the Pentagon was hit by an American Airlines 757, hijacked as it headed
from Boston to Los Angeles.

Inside, America's military chiefs had been trying to draw up a response to the
Twin Towers attack.

The plane crashed into the west side of the building, which is thought to house
army officials, working in planning and logistics. Amid smoke and rubble,
Pentagon staff scrambled to safety desperately trying to drag out injured
colleagues.

Secondary explosions were reported in the aftermath and great billows of smoke
drifted up toward the Potomac River and the city beyond.

As emergency services reached the scene, the massive evacuation operation began
to get 20,000 Pentagon staff to safety.

Glenn Flood, a Pentagon spokesman, said there were "extensive casualties and an
unknown number of fatalities".

He added: "We don't know the extent of the injuries."

By late afternoon, one hospital in suburban Virginia reported 26 victims had
been brought from the Pentagon for treatment.

Seven were taken to a Washington hospital, in a critical condition with burns.

Air Force civilian employee Terry Yonkers, who was working inside the Pentagon
at the time, said last night: "The whole building shook with the impact.

"There was screaming and pandemonium but the evacuation ordered shortly
afterward was carried out smoothly."

Early reports had claimed the building was hit by a jumbo jet.

Witness Paul Begala, a Democratic consultant, said the explosion sent a huge,
orange fireball skyward.

A female eyewitness said: "A commercial plane was coming in. It was too fast,
too low and then I saw the fire that came up after that."

Reporter Dave Winslow, who also witnessed the crash, said: "I saw the tail of a
large airliner - it ploughed right into the Pentagon."

General Richard Myers, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that
prior to the Pentagon crash, military officials were notified of another
hijacked plane heading from New York to Washington.

He said he assumed that hijacked plane was the one that hit the building, though
he couldn't be sure.

The Ministry of Defence in London confirmed a number of British servicemen were
currently in Washington, attached to the Pentagon.

But all those who could have been in the building at the time of the crash had
been accounted for.

Minutes after the Pentagon attack, the west wing of the White House was
evacuated, along with the departments of Justice, State, Treasury and Defence.

One lawmaker said the congressional leadership had been hustled away to safety.

Record reporter Anna Adams was in Washington yesterday when the plane hit the
Pentagon.

She said: "Nothing prepared me for what I saw this morning.

"As I took a walk through American history, in the seat of government of the
most powerful nation on Earth, the vulnerability of the nation was laid before
my astonished eyes.

"I was just five blocks away as Armageddon came to America.

"A passenger jet screamed into the Pentagon and was followed by a ball of fire
which erupted skywards. A thick pall of smoke quickly covered the area.

"The ear-splitting explosions ripped through the area, the smell of burning
filled the air, panic spread throughout the streets.

"At first, no one knew or could believe what had happened. We thought we did but
it was impossible to take in.

"Although I was only a few hundred yards away, I had to return to my nearby
hotel and turn on the TV in my room to find out the enormity of the calamity.

"Then I went back on the streets. The mayhem was growing by the minute.

"I have never heard so much noise in my life - a cacophony of sirens and
screaming. God knows how many innocent people have lost their lives in front of
my eyes."

The plane which came down near Pittsburgh crashed eight miles east of
Jennerstown at 10am.

A statement from United Airlines confirmed "flight UA93, flying from Newark to
San Francisco, has gone down near Pittsburgh".

James Goodman, Chief Executive of United Airlines, said: "The thoughts and
prayers of everyone at United are with the passengers and their families.

"We are working closely with the FBI to find out everything we can about this
disaster.

"Anyone in the UK who is concerned about friends or relatives is asked to call
their local reservation centre."

The terrorists could only have succeeded by using their own trained pilots,
experts insisted.

Gene Poteat, of the Association of Former Intelligence Officers, said: "No
pilot, even with a gun to his head, is going to fly into the World Towers."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

WASHINGTON TERRORIST ATTACK: IT WAS A FIREBALL ..A HUGE ORANGE FIREBALL;
  PENTAGON DEVASTATED BY DIRECT HIT FROM HIJACKED 767

BYLINE: Grace Mclean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 739 words


THE PENTAGON took a direct, devastating hit when a hijacked aircraft crashed
into the nerve centre of the US military.

It was targeted just 50 minutes after the first attack on the World Trade
Centre.

Inside the building, America's military chiefs were already trying to draw up a
military response to the terrorist outrage.

They had no idea they were also a target in the biggest single attack on the US
since Pearl Harbor.

The Pentagon was hit by a 767 aircraft, hijacked as it headed from Boston to Los
Angeles.

The plane crashed into the west side of the building, which is thought to house
army officials, working in planning and logistics.

Amid smoke and rubble, Pentagon staff scrambled to safety desperately trying to
drag out injured colleagues.

Secondary explosions were reported in the aftermath of the attack and great
billows of smoke drifted up toward the Potomac River and the city beyond.

As emergency services reached the scene, the massive evacuation operation began
to get 20,000 Pentagon staff to safety.

Within hours, a portion of the five-sided Pentagon crashed down.

Glenn Flood, a Pentagon spokesman, said there were "extensive casualties and an
unknown number of fatalities".

He added: "We don't know the extent of the injuries."

By late afternoon, one hospital in suburban Virginia reported 26 victims had
been brought from the Pentagon for treatment.

Seven were taken to a Washington hospital, in a critical condition with burns.

Air Force civilian employee Terry Yonkers, who was working inside the Pentagon
at the time, said last night: "The whole building shook; with the impact.

"There was screaming and pandemonium,but the evacuation ordered shortly
afterward was carried out smoothly."

Early reports had claimed the building was hit by a jumbo jet.

Witness Paul Begala, a Democratic consultant, said the explosion sent a huge,
orange fireball skyward.

A female eyewitness told CNN: "A commercial plane was coming in. It was too
fast, too low and then I saw the fire that came up after that."

Reporter Dave Winslow, who also witnessed the crash, said: "I saw the tail of a
large airliner - it ploughed right into the Pentagon."

General Richard Myers, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that
prior to the Pentagon crash, military officials were notified of another
hijacked plane heading from New York to Washington.

He said he assumed that hijacked plane was the one that hit the building, though
he couldn't be sure.

The Ministry of Defence in London confirmed a number of British servicemen were
currently in Washington, attached to the Pentagon. But all those who could have
been in the building at the time of the crash had been accounted for.

Minutes after the Pentagon attack, the west wing of the White House was
evacuated, along with the departments of Justice, State, Treasury and Defence.

One lawmaker said the congressional leadership had been hustled away to safety.

Record reporter Anna Adams was in Washington yesterday when the plane hit the
Pentagon.

She said: "Nothing prepared me for what I saw this morning.

"As I took a walk through American history, in the seat of government of the
most powerful nation on earth, the vulnerability of the nation was laid before
my astonished eyes.

"I was just five blocks away as Armageddon came to America.

"A passenger jet screamed into the Pentagon and was followed by a ball of fire
which erupted skywards. A thick pall of smoke quickly covered the area.

"The ear-splitting explosions ripped through the area, the smell of burning
filled the air, panic spread throughout the streets.

"People ran in all directions - they didn't know where or why.

"I was among them - out of breath and out of my mind - I walked in circles.

"At first, no one knew or could believe what they had actually seen, what had
happened.

"We thought we did but it was impossible to take in.

"Although I was only a few hundred yards away, I had to return to my nearby
hotel and turn on the TV in my room to find out the enormity of the calamity.

"Then I went back on the streets. The mayhem was growing by the minute.

"I have never heard so much noise in my life - a cacophony of sirens and
screaming.

"God knows how many innocent people have lost their lives in front of my eyes.

"I will never forget what I witnessed today."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: THE TARGETS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 240 words


THE terrorists struck at the centre of the US's financial power in New York by
flying two planes into the World Trade Centre and at the symbol of its military
might with the attack on the Pentagon. There was mystery last night over a third
plane which crashed in Pennsylvania

THE TWIN TOWERS

THE twin towers were completed in 1976 and at the time they were the tallest
buildings in the world. They were designed to be a critical hub for
international trade. The complex provided a home for 1200 businesses and around
50,000 people worked in the towers. The complex included an observation deck and
other tourist attractions and drew another 90,000 visitors each day

PENTAGON

THE massive Pentagon office building which is home to the army, navy and air
force, is a symbol of the power of the United States throughout the world. The
fact that terrorists manage to breach the highly sophisticated security system
is a dreadful blow to America's pride and emphasises that no country can be
secure against fanatics willing to die

PENNSYLVANIA

IN Pennsylvania, a United Airlines Boeing 757 en route from Newark to San
Francisco, crashed about 80 miles southeast of Pittsburgh, with 45 people
aboard. It was not clear if the crash was related to the disasters elsewhere.
United also said that another of its planes, a Boeing 767 bound from Boston to
Los Angeles with 65 on board, had crashed, but it did not say where.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: WE'RE DYING IN HERE;
 VICTIM'S CRY OF TERROR AS HIJACKED JETS HIT TOWERS

BYLINE: Annie Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2, 3

LENGTH: 1310 words


UP TO 10,000 Americans were feared dead last night after the bloodiest terrorist
attacks in world history.

Arab fanatics hijacked four passenger jets and sent two of them ploughing into
the twin towers of the World Trade Centre in New York.

The 110-storey landmarks, packed with 20,000 workers, burst into flames then
collapsed about an hour later.

Thousands were feared burned alive or buried in the rubble. Others jumped to
death with their clothes ablaze.

There were 2100 wounded, 600 seriously. About 150 people were critically ill.

A woman office worker, phoned just after the first impact, screamed: "We're
f****** dying up here."

Minutes later, a third airliner hit the Pentagon in Washington, nerve centre of
America's defence.

Officials confirmed "extensive casualties" but didn't know how many had died.
One side of the building collapsed.

A fourth jet crashed in Pennsylvania. Reports claimed it had been on its way to
hit the White House or the Presidential retreat at Camp David.

The passenger planes had a total of 266 people aboard.

The co-ordinated attacks were being seen as acts of war designed to cripple
America and smash symbols of US power.

Senator Chuck Hagel said: "This is the second Pearl Harbor. I don't think I
overstate it."

Terror kingpin Osama bin Laden was prime suspect for the slaughter. US
intelligence sources had "good indications" that the Saudi-born millionaire was
involved.

Bin Laden was blamed for the 1998 bombs which killed more than 200 people at US
embassies in Africa and for a 1993 blast at the World Trade Centre.

He reportedly vowed three weeks ago to unleash "a very big attack" on the USA.

A key associate of bin Laden was due to be sentenced for terrorism today at a
court near the World Trade Centre.

Fear spread across America and the western world, with scores of government and
military buildings evacuated.

President Bush called the attacks a national tragedy and said: "Make no mistake.
The US will hunt down and punish those responsible for this cowardly act."

Bush was not allowed to return to Washington from a trip to Florida in case he
too was targeted. He and other leaders were spirited away to military bunkers to
plan America's revenge.

Key Bush ally Senator Richard Shelby said: "This is total war, a real war. It's
a wake-up call for America."

Another senior Republican, Senator Orrin Hatch, vowed: "We're going to get the
bastards who did this."

New York was plunged into chaos. Mayor Rudy Giuliani sent in 41,000 police and
14,000 firefighters.

He told citizens to evacuate lower Manhattan, one of the busiest districts on
earth, by simply walking north.

America's day of hell began at 9am local time (2pm BST) when an airliner smashed
into the World Trade Centre's north tower. There was no warning.

American Airlines Flight 11 had 92 people on board. It was going from Boston to
Los Angeles when it was hijacked.

Security consultant Joseph Gomez looked out of his 71st-floor window and saw a
fireball heading towards him.

He said: "I thought the world was going to end and now I can't stop shaking."

Eyewitness Richard Thompson, a pilot, said: "The plane was at full power, going
straight for the building."

Corpses, debris and blazing wreckage rained down from the tower. A building
worker who was nearby said: "You could see bodies flying out of the sky. I can't
imagine anything worse."

People's possessions rained down from the towers into the street as fleeing
workers were slashed by flying glass.

Eighteen minutes later, TV viewers looked on in horror as United Airlines Flight
175 from Boston to Los Angeles was flown into the centre's south tower. The
Boeing 767 was carrying 65 people.

Witness Joe Trachtenberg said: "It went straight in, just kamikaze." A TV
commentator cried: "It looks like Hollywood but it's real."

The fireball could be seen 30 miles away. Smoke shrouded Manhattan.

William Rice, manager of the World Trade Centre, said as many as 20,000 workers
had been inside the towers. Thousands more people, including many tourists,
visit each day.

Rice and his staff were among those who dug themselves out of the rubble.

He said: "We could see dozens of people leaping off the building as fires blazed
around them.

"Hundreds of rescue workers were caught in the debris and I cannot imagine what
the final death toll will be."

Both aircraft were left embedded in the burning buildings.

Survivors spoke of huge fires, stoked by tons of aviation fuel, roaring down the
lift shafts inside the towers.

Businessman Donald Burns said: "I saw four severely burned people on the
stairwell. I tried to help them but they didn't want anyone to touch them - the
fire had melted their skin."

Some people escaped the buildings only to be crushed in the stampede to get
away. Looting was reported.

Fire marshal Mike Smith said: "Everyone was screaming, running. Cops,
firefighters, everyone. It's like a war-zone."

A female survivor said: "It was absolute horror but Americans will persevere. I
don't think we will stoop to the level of the zealot terrorist pigs."

The huge south tower crashed down with a roar an hour after the attack.

It was followed 20 minutes later by the north tower. Both had been designed to
withstand the impact of a Boeing 707.

Dozens of police, medics and firefighters were feared buried. Some radioed for
help from the rubble.

Witness Andy Shiff said: "The tower buckled and collapsed within itself. It was
worse than a horror movie."

Bystanders a mile from the scene were covered in dust. Paper from the towers'
offices was found three miles away.

Survivors ran across the Brooklyn Bridge to safety. Many wore breathing masks
handed out by rescuers to protect them from the choking dust.

Rescuers were hindered by reports of further bombs in nearby cars and schools.

Local hospitals were flooded with casualties, with many being treated for severe
burns. Dozens of bodies lay on stretchers, covered by sheets.

Nurses from all over New York State were on call and hundreds of local people
queued to give blood.

More scenes of horror were played out at the Pentagon, home to more than 23,000
employees.

The building was struck by American Airlines Flight 77, a Boeing 757 taking 64
people from Washington to Los Angeles.

Troops were immediately deployed, including a regiment of infantry.

The West Wing of the White House was evacuated after the Pentagon attack.

A witness said: "The last few hundred people to get out were told by the Secret
Service to run. They were running through the gate."

The jet which crashed in Pennsylvania, about 80 miles south-east of Pittsburgh,
was a United Airlines 757, Flight 93, going from Newark to San Francisco.

One passenger called emergency services on his mobile phone from a toilet to
report the hijack. The jet crashed as he spoke to the operator.

All planes across America were later grounded, with hundreds of flights forced
to divert to Canada. The National Guard was called out in New York.

Sixteen US fighters were ordered to shoot down any suspicious aircraft over New
York or Washington.

All sporting events in the US were cancelled and the Ryder Cup later this month
was atrisk of being called off.

The Queen sent her sympathy to the US people.

Prime Minister Tony Blair chaired a top-level Cabinet security meeting and
banned all flights over central London. He called on all democracies to unite to
fight the "new evil" of mass terrorism.

REPORTING TEAM

Steve Smith, Simon Houston, Donna Watson, Mark McGivern, Marie Sharp, Ian Dow,
Robert Fairburn, Judith Duffy, Annie Brown, James Moncur, Andrew Walker, Alex
Dowdalls, Thomas Smith, Grace McLean, Charlie Gall, Bob Dow and Brian McCartney

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: WE'RE DYING IN HERE;
 VICTIM'S CRY OF TERROR AS HIJACKED JETS HIT TOWERS

BYLINE: Annie Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2, 3

LENGTH: 1235 words


UP TO 25,000 Americans were feared dead last night after the bloodiest terrorist
attacks in world history.

Arab fanatics hijacked four passenger jets and sent two of them ploughing into
the twin towers of the World Trade Centre in New York.

The 110-storey landmarks, packed with 20,000 workers, burst into flames then
collapsed about an hour later.

Thousands were feared burned alive or buried in the rubble. Others jumped to
death from the tops of the towers with their clothes ablaze. Thousands more were
wounded

One office worker, phoned just after the impacts, screamed: "We're f****** dying
up here."

Minutes later, a third airliner hit the Pentagon in Washington, nerve centre of
America's defence.

Officials there confirmed "extensive casualties" but could not say how many had
died. One side of the building collapsed.

A fourth passenger plane crashed in Pennsylvania. Reports claimed it had been on
its way to hit the Presidential retreat at Camp David.

The jets had a total of 266 people aboard.

An explosion was reported at the State Department - America's Foreign Ministry -
and the White House was evacuated.

The co-ordinated attacks were being seen as acts of war, designed to cripple
America and smash symbols of US power.

Senator Chuck Hagel said: "This is the second Pearl Harbour. I don't think I
overstate it."

Terror kingpin Osama Bin Laden was prime suspect for the slaughter.

Bin Laden was blamed for the 1998 bombs which killed more than 200 people at US
embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, and for a 1993 attack on the World Trade
Centre.

He reportedly vowed three weeks ago to unleash "a very big attack" on the USA.

Fear spread across America and the western world, with scores of government and
military buildings evacuated.

President Bush called the attacks a national tragedy and vowed to hunt down the
killers. He and other leaders were spirited away to military bunkers to begin
planning America's revenge.

In an address to the nation later, Bush said: "Make no mistake. The US will hunt
down and punish those responsible for this cowardly act."

New York was plunged into chaos, with Mayor Rudy Giuliani telling citizens to
evacuate lower Manhattan by leaving their workplaces and walking north.

Giuliani said: "I have a sense it's a horrendous number of lives lost. It's a
horrible, horrible tragedy."

America's day of hell began at 9am local time (2pm BST) when an airliner smashed
into the World Trade Centre's north tower. There was no warning.

American Airlines Flight 11 had 92 people on board. It was going from Boston to
Los Angeles when it was hijacked.

Bodies rained down from the skyscraper along with hunks of masonry and blazing
pieces of wreckage.

Eighteen minutes later, millions of TV viewers looked on in horror as AA Flight
77 from Washington to LA was flown into the centre's south tower. The jet was
carrying 64 people.

Witness Joe Trachtenberg said: "It went straight in, just kamikaze."

Dozens of police, medics and firefighters were thought to be among the dead.
Some radioed for help from the rubble.

Giuliani said: "The losses to our police and fire department are going to be
severe. I'm praying for them."

He urged people to clear the whole of lower Manhattan, one of the busiest
districts on earth. He said: "Everyone must just walk out and go north. The most
important thing is to get people out so the emergency people can get in."

William Rice, manager of the World Trade Centre, said as many as 20,000 workers
had been inside the towers.

Mr Rice and his staff were among those who dug themselves out of the rubble.

He said: "We could see dozens of people leaping off the building as fires blazed
around them.

"Hundreds of rescue workers were caught in the debris and I cannot imagine what
the final death toll will be."

Both aircraft were left embedded in the burning buildings.

Survivors spoke of huge fires, stoked by tons of aviation fuel, roaring down the
lift shafts inside the towers.

Businessman Donald Burns said: "I saw four severely burned people on the
stairwell. I tried to help them but they didn't want anyone to touch them - the
fire had melted their skin."

Some people escaped the buildings only to be crushed in the stampede to get
away. Looting was reported.

Fire marshal Mike Smith said: "Everyone was screaming, running. Cops, people,
firefighters, everyone. It's like a war zone."

A female survivor said: "People were stampeding, they started screaming that
there was another plane coming.

"It was absolute horror but Americans will persevere. I don't think we will
stoop to the level of the zealot terrorist pigs."

The south tower crashed down about an hour after the first impact, followed 20
minutes later by the north tower.

Witness Andy Shiff said: "The tower buckled and collapsed within itself. It was
worse than a horror movie."

Computer analyst Boris Ozersky had just run down 70 flights of stairs to safety
when the tower he had been in fell.

He said: "I just got blown somewhere, and then it was total darkness."

People's possessions rained down from the towers into the street.

Paper from the offices was found three miles away in Brooklyn as survivors ran
across the Brooklyn Bridge to safety. Many wore breathing masks handed out by
rescuers to protect them from dust.

Rescuers were hindered by reports of further bombs in nearby cars and schools.

Local hospitals were flooded with casualties, with many being treated for severe
burns.

Nurses from all over New York State were on call and hundreds of local people
queued to give blood.

More scenes of horror were played out at the Pentagon, home to more than 23,000
employees.

The flight number of the plane used to attack the huge building had not been
revealed last night.

But bosses at United Airlines said they were deeply concerned about their Flight
175, a Boeing 767 bound from Boston to Los Angeles.

Troops were immediately deployed, including a regiment of infantry.

The West Wing of the White House was evacuated after the Pentagon attack.

A witness said: "The last few hundred people to get out were told by the Secret
Service to run. They were running through the gate."

Secret service agents with automatic weapons were patrolling the White House
grounds last night.

The jet which crashed in Pennsylvania, about 80 miles south-east of Pittsburgh,
was a United Airlines 757, Flight 93, going from Newark to San Francisco.

The Duchess of York was due to visit the World Trade Centre yesterday but had
not set off when the attack happened.

All planes across America were grounded, with hundreds of flights coming into
the country forced to divert to Canada.

All sporting events in the US were cancelled and the Ryder Cup later this month
was set to be called off.

The Queen sent her sympathy to the US people, and Prime Minister Tony Blair
called on democracies to unite to fight "a new evil".

He said: "This mass terrorism is perpetrated by fanatics who are utterly
indifferent to the sanctity of human life."REPORTING TEAMSteve Smith, Simon
Houston, Donna Watson, Mark McGivern, Marie Sharp, Ian Dow, Robert Fairburn,
Judith Duffy, Annie Brown, James Moncur, Andrew Walker, Alex Dowdalls, Thomas
Smith, Grace McLean, Charlie Gall, Bob Dow and Brian McCartney

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: HOW THE TERRORIST HORRORS QUICKLY UNFOLDED;
  TIMETABLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 323 words


IT was just 8.58am and the busiest time of the day in New York and Washington as
hundreds of thousands of Americans began what they thought was just another day
at work. In seconds horrific scenes of devastation unfurled. All times are in
BST.

1.58pm: A Jet airliner crashes into the World Trade Centre in New York.

2.16pm: A second airliner crashes full on into the second tower, causing a
devastating explosion. Television pictures show the dramatic pictures.

2.20pm: Reports emerge that the FBI is investigating reports of a plane being
hijacked before the World Trade Centre crashes.

2.29pm: First reports of casualties indicate that at least six people were

killed, with at least 1000 injured then reports come in of a third explosion in
Washington.

2.30pm: US President George Bush declares: "We have had a national tragedy.

" Two aeroplanes have crashed into the World Trade Centre in an apparent
terrorist attack on our country."

2.32pm: CNN reports that one of the planes was an American Airlines Boeing 767
that took off from Boston.

2.43pm: Abu Dhabi television reports it had received a call from the Democratic
Front for the Liberation of Palestine claiming responsibility for crashing two
planes into the WTC.

2.43pm: Reports confirm that a plane crashed near the Pentagon in Washington -
the heart of the American military machine.

2.45pm: The White House is evacuated amid further terrorist threats.

2.50pm: All airports across the US are shut down.

3.07pm: The south tower of the World Trade Centre tower collapses, totally
engulfing Manhattan in dust.

3.12pm: UK Prime Minister Tony Blair describes the attacks in the United States
as "the most terrible shocking event".

3.25pm: A Car bomb explodes outside the State Department in Washington.

3.27pm: The north tower of the World Trade Centre collapses.

3.30pm: Reports emerge of a crash near Pittsburgh.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: WAR;
 WORLD CRISIS EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 33 words


10,000 feared dead after suicide hijackers use four planes to blitz the heart of
America

TERROR FROM THE SKIES: Pages
2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,20,21,25,26,27, 28 & 29

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: WAR;
 WORLD CRISIS EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 775 words


25,000 dead as suicide hijackers use four planes to blitz heart of America

TERROR FROM THE SKIES: Pages 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18, 28 &
29

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                               September 12, 2001

TERRORIST BOSS WARNED OF ATTACK THREE WEEKS AGO; THE SMILING MONSTER

BYLINE: by STUART WINTER and GORDON THOMAS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 716 words


THE bloodied finger of suspicion for the world's worst terrorist outrage was
pointing at one man last night - Osama bin Laden.

Both the FBI and CIA have targeted the multi-millionaire Arab as the mastermind
for the suicide bomb attacks that brought America to its knees.

Fuelled by a hatred for the hamburger culture, bin Laden has waged a long and
savage war against America.

Six months ago, he vowed on a website: "We don't consider it a crime if we use
any weapon to destroy our enemy America."

Then, three weeks ago, he chillingly pledged to wreak revenge against the US for
its support of Israel.

Yesterday he showed just what he meant - carrying out an attack that will become
as infamous as Pearl Harbor.

Bin Laden's brand of terror knows no bounds.

His army of 3,000 devotees stretches across 50 nations and has a massive
stockpile of nerve gas and germ warfare bombs, along with tons of high
explosives.

The terror disciples are ready to die in an instant at their master's command.

Security services in 25 countries have placed bin Laden, 56, at the top of their
most-wanted lists.

The CIA call him"the grandmaster of terrorism" and Israel's Mossad have labelled
him as "wanted at all costs".

Saudi-born bin Laden has long been exporting his own brand of terror to
America's front door. He planned the bombings that left a trail of devastation
at the American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998.

His suicide squads also blew apart a US warship in Aden last year, killing six
sailors.

But September 11, 2001, will go down in history as the day Bin Laden made the
world shiver.

From his secret lair in the hills above the Afghanistan capital of Kabul, bin
Laden - protected by the extremist Taliban regime - had spent months planning
the huge strike against his most hated foe.

Ironically, bin Laden was once a trusted ally of the Pentagon as the leader of
the Afghanistan warlords fighting a bitter five-year war against the Soviet
Union, The CIA plied him with the latest war technology and taught him how to
fight a guerrilla campaign against the Communist Red Army.

Experts believe that at 5pm yesterday Kabul time, bin Laden would have looked at
his diamondencrusted Rolex, and smiled as his battle plan against the hated
Satans in Washington was brought to a final, bloody conclusion.

Bin Laden, a folk hero across the Middle East, had struck the most deadly blow
in the dark history of terrorism.

After the bombing of the US embassy in Nairobi, President Clinton ordered bin
Laden be hunted down.

President Bush last night repeated the demand to his intelligence chiefs.

Today satellites and sophisticated ground tracking equipment is being mobilised
to find bin Laden.

Physically he is easy to spot.

With his high cheekbones, narrow face and gold-fringed robe, he is the classic
mountain warrior of Afghanistan.

He is steeped in violence, having driven a captured tank against Russian
soldiers.

When he had helped drive out the Soviets, he turned against the Americans and
their "hamburger and Coca-Cola values".

Today he takes pride in being America's most sought-after enemy. Everywhere he
goes, so do his 50 bodyguards.

Every man is hand-picked, ready to die for him.

His four wives remain at home in Jeddah in Islamic purdah. Despite the
unprecedented manhunt that has been launched, bin Laden will already be plotting
to strike again.

Rafi Eitan, who masterminded Mossad's capture of German Adolf Eichmann, last
night identified the problem of capturing the world's terror leader.

"Satellites can only tell you what is happening now. You need men on the ground,
" he said.

For the past year Mossad has been infiltrating Afghan-born Jews into Kabul to
try to penetrate the Taliban regime. Despite reports that bin Laden is no longer
in Afghanistan, Mossad believes he is still hiding in the mountains outside the
capital.

Last year the Americans attacked the area with cruise missiles. But bin Laden
remained unscathed.

Since then, he has avoided the CIA's electronic eavesdroppers by writing his
orders in a neat Arabic handwriting to be carried around the world by his
agents.

In America yesterday those words resulted in some of the bloodiest deeds in
history.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 Express Newspapers

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: WAR;
 WORLD CRISIS EDITION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 28 words


25,000 dead as suicide hijackers use four planes to blitz heart of America

TERROR FROM THE SKIES: Pages 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18, 28 &
29

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 12, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: Parliament recalled to discuss crisis

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 119 words


The UK Government has decided to recall Parliament from its summer break in the
wake of the US terror attacks.

Members of Parliament will be brought back from their holidays to return to
Westminster on Friday morning.

Tony Blair officially announced the decision at noon on Wednesday. Recalls only
happen at times at crisis and there have only been 18 since 1948.

The announcement followed a Downing Street summit of senior ministers,
intelligence chiefs and defence staff to review security measures for the UK.

That meeting in Downing Street broke up after just over an hour at about 09.15
BST and Foreign Secretary Jack Straw has headed to Brussels for emergency talks
with the other European Union.

EGi News 12/09/01



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 12, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: Outrage could speed global recession

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 783 words


The terrorist attack that ripped the heart out of the world's financial centre
and killed thousands of innocent people could have an untold impact on the
global economy, City experts warned today.

The US economy is now almost certain to plunge into a recession before the end
of the year, and the rest of the world could follow, they said.

A coordinated round of interest rate cuts in the UK, the euro-zone and the US
may even take place within the next week to help boost the markets.

Philip Shaw, chief economist at City stockbroker Investec, said: "The
ramifications are potentially extremely serious." He explained that the extent
of the impact may not be known until trading resumes on the New York Stock
Exchange. Wall Street is closed today.

"The extent at which the US market opens down is unknown, but if unchecked it
could lead to a big slide in confidence in markets and consumer confidence. We
should see the US slide into technical recession this year and the rest of the
global economy will suffer as a result.

The one thing stopping the UK markets falling further is the expectation of cuts
in interest rates, and there is a strong possibility of a coordinated round of
cuts from the major central banks in the next few days.''

The uncertainty provoked by yesterday's attack was reflected on the FTSE 100
Index in London, where close to £21bn was wiped off the value of Britain's
leading companies in the first ten minutes of trading.

The FTSE recovered in the next 20 minutes to stand up 54.7 points at 4,800.7
after half an hour, with Marconi leading the way. 15 minutes later it was back
down to 4,749.2.

Shaw said that the one thing that could prevent the UK economy sliding into
recession was the strong retail sector and buoyant housing market, adding: "If
the consumer does his bit we should escape recession.''

Tom Hougaard, trader and technical analyst at City bookies Financial Spreads,
said he believed the UK could fall into recession next year. "It could quite
easily go into recession. This will rock consumer confidence - the Towers, they
have always been a symbol of wealth, it couldn't get any bigger than that.''

He said panic selling had caused the early fall in the FTSE 100 today, but the
market had stabilised as the City's key institutions had decided to hold steady.
"The UK's large institutions are refusing to sell as they have no idea of the
long-term implications of this. They know if they start selling they will cause
a meltdown.''

Dr Ali Rodriguez Araque, secretary general of the Vienna-based Organisation of
Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec), yesterday reiterated Opec's commitment to
ensuring adequate oil supply. Member countries were also prepared to use their
spare capacity, if deemed necessary. He rejected suggestions that some of Opec's
members could use oil as a weapon.

Other economic experts said yesterday's attack could spark a recession.

David Webb, a professor at the London School of Economics, said it would impact
on consumer confidence "which wasn't that high anyway'' and make the jittery
financial markets even more jittery. "We will be very nervous until we have a
clearer picture. Is it the first event of many? Can it be contained if it
involves the Middle East?

"These are serious questions about the US involvement in the Middle East. It
could raise the oil price which would then fire a recession but they will try to
avoid that.

"The real issue is whether the policymakers, and also those across the advanced
economies, can give confidence to the markets that they are not going to move
into a recession.

"Banks must be able to provide liquidity and fiscal authority to calm consumers.
I think it's possible to avoid a recession and rising oil prices if the right
policies are applied and people don't panic.''

The attack could, however, have a large effect on the price of oil, especially
if there is a connection with the Middle East. The price, which yesterday closed
up $1.61 a barrel at $29.06 - after rising as high as $31.05 - was today
stabilising, and trading at $28.71 at midday.

Julian Lee, senior energy analyst at the Centre for Global Energy Studies, said:
"In the very short term, I expect prices to remain volatile. However, I expect
Opec will step in very quickly to make up any shortage in any event of a
physical stop in supplies.''

He added that he expected a major reduction in air travel following the action,
which would undermine oil demand growth.

Following the Gulf War people had been less keen to travel by air, he said,
adding that this was "much closer to home''.

However a cut in demand for air fuel could be offset by more demand for gasoline
in the US, with an expected rise in car travel.

EGi News 12/09/01




LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 12, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: Regus confirms death of five staff in New York

BYLINE: Alex Catalano

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 96 words


Five of Regus' staff at its serviced office centre in the World Trade Center in
New York were killed in yesterday's terrorist attack.

Chief executive Mark Dixon is now on his way to the US.

In an official statement, Dixon said: "It was confirmed overnight that five
members of our staff are unaccounted for. We are devastated by this tragic news
and our thoughts are with the five individuals, their family and friends. The
situation for our clients is unclear, and yet to be confirmed", said Dixon.

The centre, opened this spring, occupied the 93rd floor of Tower 2.

EGi News 12/09/01


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 12, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: LSH affiliate among first to confirm casualties at WTC

BYLINE: Robert Gibson

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 312 words


Staff at Lambert Smith Hampton's US affiliate Julien J Studley are among the
casualties of the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. Studley's
satellite office was on the 86th floor of the first tower that collapsed.

Jim Guttenberg, a senior broker, and a receptionist are missing, and other staff
are unaccounted for. LSH international director, Matthew Purser, said: "Our
thoughts and prayers are with the relatives of everyone affected in a New York
that is reeling." Purser was speaking from Los Angeles, where he had been
stranded.

Guttenberg's boss Robert Goodman was fortunate to escape. "He just left the
building for a meeting and was in the subway when the building went down. One
slight ameliorating factor to this disaster was that at the time of impact not
all the broking and surveying staff had arrived," said Purser.

Both Insignia and Jones Lang LaSalle have closed their central New York offices
as they struggle to come to terms with the dreadful tragedy that has hit the
city. Their senior spokesmen have been reluctant to comment while human
resources staff desperately try to account for all their personnel.

John Travers, senior partner of Healey & Baker, was due to be in New York today.
Travers said: "Our prayers are with everyone over there. Cushman & Wakefield is
completely shell-shocked. Our offices in New York are still operating from
midtown where our international director John Coppage saw the towers go down
yesterday. I believe the best show of solidarity is to try and conduct business
as usual." H&B is affiliated with Cushman and Wakefield.

UK firms with US offices have had huge problems getting in touch with their US
colleagues. One tragic complication for those desperately trying to find
information about colleagues was that many of the antennae for mobile phones
were located on the top of the World Trade Center.

EGi News 12/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 12, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: London hotel sector braced for downturn

BYLINE: Andrea Cockram

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 251 words


London hotel owners are bracing themselves for the economic impact of Tuesday's
US terrorist attacks on the UK hotel market.

Demand soared briefly this week as thousands of US tourists were stranded at UK
airports, but industry experts are now predicting low occupancy rates and delays
on deals at the top end of the market.

There is widespread expectation that mass cancellation of US business and
tourist travel plans will speed up the slowdown in the luxury bracket of the UK
hotel market.

This trend could affect sales of trophy hotels such as the Lanesborough in the
short term, as occupancy levels dip and investors hold out to see which way the
market will turn.

Knight Frank's hotels chief Colin Hall said: "This will take away one or two of
the buyers and in the short term may jeopardise sales of some London trophy
hotels. In the longer term it may release some stock, as owners decide times are
going to be tough and now is the time to release assets."

Arthur de Haast, Managing Director Europe, said: "UK hotels rely heavily on the
US for business. The last comparable time was the Gulf War in 1991."

But some agents are adopting a more hopeful approach. Managing director at
Insignia Hotels Derek Gammage said: "This was a single act. It is not a war.
Even if the attack speeds up the slowdown we are much better placed to weather a
slowdown than we were in 1991."

The US is Britains most important tourism market, with more than 4m visitors to
the UK in the 12 months to February 2001.

EGi News 12/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 12, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: Shaken LSE goes back to work

BYLINE: Selina Mills

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 157 words


The London Stock Exchange resumed trading this morning after its evacuation
yesterday, as many in the City awaited news of colleagues following the
terrorist attacks in New York.

The FTSE-100 index at 8am was up 15.8 at 4761.8, with strong trading in Gold and
Oil.

Analysts said, however, that trading would be slow for at least the next week.
Andrew Causer, of JP Morgan, said: "We are really facing a period of huge
uncertainty. US economic conditions are set to be frozen for the next few days,
while people do nothing but buy food. Business levels will be very low."

Others analysts said the US, already facing economic slowdown, will now be
pushed into recession.

"The US is set to experience massive temporary shock. Companies will be
reporting the effects for months and whole industries will be effected. People
are already coming into work saying, who is really prepared to work in towers
above 20 storeys," one analyst said.

EGi News 12/09/01

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                               September 12, 2001

US Terrorist Attack: Third building collapses at World Trade Center

BYLINE: Alex Catalano

SECTION: EGi News

LENGTH: 466 words


Salomon Smith Barney 's 47-storey HQ at the World Trade Center (WTC) in New York
is the latest building to collapse following yesterday's terrorist attack on the
complex.

The two towers, which dominated the WTC, crashed to the ground just over an hour
after two planes collided with them at about 9am New York time. The Salomon
building fell about five hours after the initial attack.

The Pentagon in Washington DC was hit by a third plane at 10:15 am. A fourth
hijacked plane crashed outside Pittsburgh.

The casualties are estimated to be around 800 at the Pentagon and in the
thousands in New York. There were also 266 passengers and crew aboard the
hijacked planes.

Two were hijacked at Boston's Logan Airport and flown into the WTC towers. A
third was hijacked at Dulles Airport in Washington and flown into the Pentagon,
while the fourth, a flight from Newark, crashed near Pittsburgh.

The WTC complex housed 430 firms, with around 50,000 workers. The businesses
included a high proportion of foreign banks and big US financial groups
including Lehman Brothers, Credit Suisse First Boston, Bank of America, and
Salomon Smith Barney. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter was one of the largest tenants,
with about 3,500 employees in 22 floors of one of the towers, 2 WTC, and three
floors in a smaller building, 5 WTC. Another large occupant was health insurer
Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield, with some 4,000 employees on seven floors in
1WTC.

Built in the 1970s, the WTC was a complex of seven buildings in New York's
financial district, just a stone's throw from Wall Street. The two towers, 1 WTC
and 2 WTC, were New York's tallest at 110 stories each, and the third tallest
skyscrapers in the world.

The complex contained 1.12m sq m (12m sq ft), seven times the size of the Empire
State Building, and had its own postcode and subway station. The two towers
alone comprised 836,100 sq m (9m sq ft), and there was also a 39,668 sq m
(426,996 sq ft) underground shopping mall.

In 1981, a 181-room Marriott hotel was the last addition to the main complex. US
newswires are reporting this morning that the hotel is on the verge of collapse.

This April, New York real estate firm Silverstein Properties and Australian
shopping centre group Westfield paid the New York and New Jersey Port Authority
US$3.2bn for a 99-year lease on the two towers and two of the smaller buidlings,
plus the shopping mall.Silverstein, a private company, already own some 743,200
sq m (8m sq ft) of mainly New York real estate, including 7 WTC.

It was a joint bid, but the office and retail elements were leased separately by
the two partners. Westfield was responsible for the shopping mall, which had
some 75 stores and restaurants. It was one of the highest-earning in America,
with sales of more than US$900 per sq ft.

EGi News 12/09/01



LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright  2001 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 12, 2001

'We will find these people - and they will suffer the consequences' The
President;
Terror Attack on US Terrorism USA

BYLINE: Richard Holliday

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 272 words


"WE will find these people - and they will suffer the consequences of taking on
this nation."

This is what George W. Bush told his national security team from Air Force One
as he was whisked from Florida, via various USAF bases, back to Washington.

Back at the White House, at 8.30pm Eastern Standard Time - 1.30am BST - the
President addressed America on coast-to-coast television.

He told the nation: "Today, our fellow citizens, our way of life, our very
freedom came under attack in a series of deliberate and deadly terrorist acts.
The victims were in airplanes or in their offices.

"Secretaries, business men and women, military and federal workers.

Moms and dads. Friends and neighbours.

"Thousands of lives were suddenly ended by evil, despicable acts of terror.

The pictures of airplanes flying into buildings, fires burning, huge structures
collapsing, have filled us with disbelief, terrible sadness and a quiet,
unyielding anger.

"These acts of mass murder were intended to frighten our nation into chaos and
retreat. But they have failed. Our country is strong. A great people has been
moved to defend a great nation.

"Terrorist attacks can shake the foundations of our biggest buildings, but they
cannot touch the foundation of America."

Mr Bush went to say: "America was targeted for attack because we're the
brightest beacon for freedom and opportunity in the world."

He then quoted Psalm 23: "Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of
death, I fear no evil for you are with me."

The President concluded: "Thank you.

Good night and God bless America."


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PRESIDENT GEORGE W BUSH DELIVERS HIS ADDRESS TO AMERICA ON
COAST-TO-COAST TELEVISION

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 12, 2001

Voices in rubble of death towers;
Terror Attack on US Terrorism USA

BYLINE: Patrick Sawer;Justin Davenport

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1615 words


TWO New York policemen were pulled out alive from the rubble of the World Trade
Center today as America struggled to come to terms with the worst attack on its
country since Pearl Harbour.

But that ray of hope was dimmed by the overwhelming scale of the horror only now
beginning to emerge from the devastation inflicted on New York and Washington.

As many 800 people are feared dead in the attack on the Pentagon and as yet
unknown thousands perished inside the twin towers of the World Trade Center.

Entire companies of firefighters who had rushed to the rescue were wiped out as
the towers collapsed and there are fears as many as 300 men were lost.

One hundred police officers are missing.

Thousands of FBI agents are scouring the country in the search for the killers
and the finger of suspicion points to terrorist leader Osama bin Laden.
President George Bush has said the US will retaliate.

There are reports of survivors somewhere in the wreckage desperately pleading
for help on their mobile phones.

More than 2,000 walking wounded have been shipped to Liberty State Park in New
Jersey by ferry and tugboat, and 1,100 others taken to New York City hospitals,
among them 200 in critical condition.

Well into the night, a steady stream of boats continued to arrive at the park.

New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said: "We don't have a count yet (on fatalities)
and we really don't want to hazard a guess until some time later.

When we get the final number, it will be more than we can bear."

The search for bodies and survivors continues, with New York Hospitals geared up
for its biggest ever disaster operation.

But the chances of finding more than a handful alive in the mass of concrete and
steel that once were one of the world's tallest buildings are slim. Each tower
is capable of holding 10,000 office workers.

Emergency Medical Service worker Louis Garcia said initial reports indicated
that bodies were buried beneath two feet of soot on streets around the Trade
Center.

"A lot of the vehicles are running over bodies because they are all over the
place," he said.

In an operation of chilling efficiency, hijackers armed only with knives seized
four planes as they began their flight across the continent, fully laden with
fuel.

Two were flown into the World Trade Centre , a third was crashed into the
Pentagon - the US Department of Defence - while the fourth crashed near
Pittsburgh, believed to be targetting the presidential retreat at Camp David.

The US is today a country in a state of seige.

Its borders with Mexico and Canada remain sealed. All flights have been grounded
and airports shut. The Stock Exchange is closed.

For the first time since D-Day major league baseball games were cancelled.

The Emmy awards have been postponed and all Broadway theatres have closed.

Dinseyworld in Florida and Disneyland in California have shut.

The US Atlantic Fleet deployed two aircraft carriers off the East Coast to
provide air defences for Washington and New York. Air Force F-16s patrolled the
skies over Washington and military commanders ordered forces on highest alert.

The fleet also dispatched five guided-missile cruisers and two guided-missile
destroyers capable of thwarting air attacks, along with amphibious ships
carrying Marine Corps and Navy security forces and surgical teams in the wake of
the attacks.

The North American Aerospace Defence Command is on its highest alert. Around the
country, fighters, airborne radars and refueling planes took the skies.

Ccontrollers did track one of the hijacked planes, but it crashed into the World
Trade Center even as fighters were scrambling, said Colonel Mike Perini. The
world business community and international airports wrestled with the knock-on
effects of the attack.

Key indexes sank on world stock markets and many European and Asian airlines
cancelled flights to the United States and recalled planes already in the air.

In London an extra 500 police were deployed on the streets, security surrounding
airports and US buildings was stepped up and commercial flights over the centre
of the capital were banned.

President Bush said in an address to the nation last night. "Today, our nation
saw evil." He said thousands of lives were " suddenly ended by evil, despicable
acts of terror".

Admiral Robert J. Natter, commander of the US Atlantic Fleet, said: "We have
been attacked like we haven't since Pearl Harbour." Establishing the death toll
could take weeks.

At the Pentagon, Arlington County Fire Chief Edward Plaugher said part of the
roof of the five-sided building, was still ablaze and firefighters would not be
able to extinguish the flames until today. Mayor Giuliani said the city's fire
department lost its first deputy commissioner, chief of department, chief in
charge of the special operations command and a chaplain.

. One of them, Ray Downing, went to Oklahoma City with a group of New York City
firefighters to help out following the terrorist attack on the federal building
there.

CNN named David Angell, creator and executive producer of the American comedy
show Frasier, as one of 56 passengers on United Airlines flight 175 - the second
plane to hit the World Trade Centre. Mr Angell had also worked on the comedy
Cheers.

A police department source said callers trapped inside the rubble have dialed
the 911 emergency number and were trying to describe to police where they were.

One man caught under the rubble used his cell phone to reach family in
Pennsylvania with a plea for help.

"She received a call from him saying he was still trapped under the World Trade
Center.

He gave specific directions and said he was there along with two New York City
sergeants," said Brian Jones, an emergency telephone coordinator in Allegheny
County.

He would not give their names, but said the message was passed to New York
authorities.

However, doctors manning the emergency centre at the NYU Downtown Hospital said
they saw mostly firefighters coming in for treatment.

"We keep hearing word that they are finding pockets of people, and that's why
we're all excited and standing around here. But I just walked over there an hour
ago and it didn't seem like we were getting real close to that," said Dr Harold
van Bosse.

US. intelligence intercepted communications between bin Laden supporters
discussing the attacks on the World Trade Center in New York and the Pentagon,
according to Utah Senator Orrin Hatch, the top Republican on the Senate
Judiciary Committee.

"They have an intercept of some information that included people associated with
bin Laden who acknowledged a couple of targets were hit," Mr Hatch said.

He also said law enforcement agencies have data possibly linking one person on
one of the four ill-fated flights to bin Laden's organization.

The FBI was preparing to search locations in south Florida and central Florida
with links to the suspected bin Laden supporter on the jet passenger list,
officials said.

Government and industry officials said at least one flight attendant and two
passengers called from three of the planes as they were being forced down in New
York and Washington - each describing similar circumstances involving
knife-wielding hijackers.

The callers told how hijackers armed with knives stabbed flight attendants, took
control of the plane and were forcing them down toward the ground, officials
said.

OShortly after 7 p.m local time, rescue crews began heading into "ground zero"
of the attack to search for survivors and recover bodies.

All that remaines of the twin towers is a pile of rubble and twisted steel
barely two stories high, leaving a huge gap in the New York City skyline. A
burning, 47-story part of the Trade Center complex, long since evacuated,
collapsed in flames just before nightfall.

New York governor George Pataki mobilised the National Guard to help, and
hundreds of volunteers and medical workers converged on triage centers, offering
services and blood.

"I hope we get patients," said medical student Eddie Campbell, who rushed to
help at one of the centers. "But they're not coming out. They're in there," he
said, pointing down the street to where the World Trade Center once stood.

Hundreds of volunteers with medical, military or nursing experience formed crews
to accept blood donations and take care of minor injuries as truckloads of
medical supplies flooded in.

Nearby, a construction crew carted plywood to the emergency teams to be used as
makeshift stretchers.

Following the attacks, leaders of Congress were led to an undisclosed location,
as were key officials of the Bush administration. Guards armed with automatic
weapons patrolled the White House grounds and military aircraft secured the
skies above the capital city.

National Guard troops appeared on some street corners in the nation's capital.

Evacuations were ordered at the tallest skyscrapers in several cities, and
high-profile tourist attractions closed.

Bin Laden came to prominence fighting alongside the US-backed Afghan mujahedeen
- holy warriors - in their war against Soviet troops in the 1980s.

But former followers say he turned against the United States during the 1991
Gulf War, seething at the deployment of US troops in Saudi Arabia during the
Gulf War campaign to oust Iraq from Kuwait. He has repeatedly called on Muslims
worldwide to join in a jihad, or holy war, against the U.S.

i The Evening Standard printed hundreds of thousands of extra copies last night
to supply readers but still sold out in several areas for which we apologise.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 12, 2001

'I want you to know that I love you in case I don't see you again';
Terror Attack on US: On the Planes Terrorism USA

BYLINE: Harriet Arkell;Anthony France

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 762 words



TERRIFIED passengers and crew on board the hijacked planes used their mobile
phones to make desperate calls for help, it emerged today.

As armed hijackers moved through the planes stabbing airline crew to force them
to co-operate, people locked themselves into lavatories to ring relations and
emergency services.

On the American Airlines Flight 77 from Washington, television reporter Barbara
Olson, 46, locked herself in the lavatory to call her husband, Solicitor General
Theodore Olson.

Seconds after she spoke to him for the second time, her plane crashed into the
Pentagon, reportedly killing all 60 people on board.

Her distraught husband, a friend of President Bush who fought for him during the
legal battle over the disputed presidential election, said: "She called from the
plane while it was being hijacked. I wish it wasn't so but it is."

A spokesman for the family said Mrs Olson, a mother and grandmother, only
decided to take the flight at the last minute, to join her husband for his
birthday.

He said: "She called and said she was locked in the toilet and the plane had
been hijacked. She said they had box-cutters and knives. They had rounded up the
passengers at the back of the plane. She referred to them as more than one.
There was nothing she could do. She said to her husband 'What shall I tell the
pilot to do?' "Mrs Olson was not even supposed to be on that flight.

She flew a day early to make sure she could be at Ted's birthday."

Mrs Olson, a prominent figure in American media circles, was a frequent guest on
television shows discussing the Clinton administration. More recently she spoke
on television about the disappearance of Washington intern Chandra Levy.

Her close friend Barbara Ledeen said: "Barbara was one of the dearest, most
loyal people. Sunny, witty and wonderful, she was a brilliant wife and friend."

Mrs Olson's plane crashed into the Pentagon at 9.43am local time, causing an
explosion which destroyed six storeys of the military command centre.

On board the second jet that hit the World Trade Center, a flight attendant
managed to call an emergency number from the back of the plane.

An American Airlines source said the stewardess told how her colleagues had been
stabbed by hijackers, the cabin had been taken over and the plane was going down
in New York.

Another desperate call came from the United Airlines plane that crashed in
Pennsylvania.

Alice Hogland, from San Francisco, told television channel KTVU-TV how her son
Mark Bingham, 31, telephoned her from United Airlines Flight 93 on his mobile
phone.

His mother, Alice Hoglan, broke down as she told CNN: "He said 'We've been taken
over.

There are three men that say they have a bomb'.

"He said 'I want you to know that I love you very much, in case I don't see you
again'."

"He went on 'I'm in the air. I'm calling on the air phone of the airplane.

We've been taken over.

There are three men that say they've got a bomb.' "He repeated that he loved me.
Then he became distracted, as if someone was speaking to him. He said something
to the effect that it was true. "Then the phone went dead."

Another report told how a passenger from the same flight rang emergency workers
from his mobile.

He said he was locked in the plane's lavatory, the plane was being hijacked and
it was going down.

Emergency worker Glenn Cramer, who took the call, said he cried '"e are being
hijacked, we are being hijacked." As he spoke, there was an explosion and the
call ended.

The Boeing 757, from Newark, New Jersey, then crashed in grassy field near
Pittsburgh, killing all 38 passengers, two pilots and five flight attendants on
board.

American businessman Peter Hanson made desperate calls to his father in
Connecticut as his United Airlines flight from Boston was taken over.

The local minister in Connecticut, Bonnie Bardot, said Mr Hanson, who was flying
with his wife and young child, called his father Lee Hanson twice before the
jetliner smashed into the World Trade Center.

She said: "He called to his parents' home and so in that way, they were together
in that moment."

Lorne Lyles, a Florida police officer, was at home when his wife, flight
attendant CeeCee Lyles, called him on her mobile phone.

"She called him and let him know how much she loved him and the boys," said her
aunt, Mareya Schneider.

She said Mrs Lyles was crying and her husband could hear people screaming in the
background. Then she said "we've been hijacked" and the phone went dead.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BARBARA OLSON SPOKE TO HER HUSBAND THE SOLICITOR GENERAL MOMENTS BEFORE
HER PLANE HIT THE PENTAGON; THE LYLES FAMILY: AIR STEWARDESS CEECEE CALLED HER
HUSBAND LORNE FROM THE HIJACKED PLANE NEAR PITTSBURGH TO TELL HIM HOW MUCH SHE
LOVED HIM AND THEIR TWO SONS, JEVON AND JEROME, PICTURED; DISTRAUGHT: US
SOLICITOR GENERAL TED OLSON, A FRIEND OF GEORGE W BUSH, WHO HELPED IN THE
ELECTION LEGAL BATTLE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 12, 2001

Voices in rubble of death towers;
Terror Attack on US: Cries for Help Terrorism USA

BYLINE: Patrick Sawer;Justin Davenport

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1062 words


TWO New York policemen were pulled out alive from the rubble of the World Trade
Center today as America, and the rest of the world, struggled to come to terms
with the horror of the terrorist devastation.

A rescue worker, one of hundreds caught in the debris, has reportedly been found
alive but trapped. His legs may have to be amputated to free him. One man used
his mobile phone to guide rescuers to him as cries for help drifted down
deserted, wreckage-strewn streets.

But those few rays of hope, after America's worst peacetime attack, were dimmed
by the sheer scale of the tragedy, the full magnitude of which could take days
if not weeks to emerge.

Firefighter Rudy Weindler, who spent 12 hours searching for survivors, found
only four, including a pregnant woman slumped on the pavement among the rubble.

Rescuers are still searching the ruins. "It is unimaginable, devastating,
unspeakable carnage," said firefighter Scott O'Grady.

"To say it looks like a war zone and to tell you about bodies and blood in the
street and steel beams blocking roads would not begin to describe what it's
like. It's horrible."

As many as 800 people are feared dead in the attack on the Pentagon and as yet
unknown thousands perished inside the twin towers of the World Trade Center.

Entire companies of firefighters, probably as many as 300 men, were wiped out as
the towers collapsed.

The fire department has lost its first deputy commissioner, chief of department,
chief in charge of the special operations command and a chaplain.

One hundred police officers are missing.

Thousands of FBI agents are scouring the country in the search for the killers
and the finger of suspicion points to terrorist leader Osama bin Laden.
President George W Bush has said the US will retaliate.

More than 2,000 walking wounded have been shipped to Liberty State Park in New
Jersey by ferry and tugboat, and 1,100 others taken to New York City hospitals,
among them 200 are in critical condition. Well into the night, a steady stream
of boats continued to arrive at the park to unload victims.

Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said: "We don't have a count yet (on fatalities) and we
really don't want to hazard a guess until some time later. When we get the final
number, it will be more than we can bear." But the chances of finding more than
a handful alive in the mass of concrete and steel are slim. Each tower is
capable of holding 10,000 office workers.

Emergency Medical Service worker Louis Garcia said initial reports said bodies
were buried beneath two feet of soot on streets around the Trade Center. "A lot
of the vehicles are running over bodies because they are all over the place," he
said.

American Airlines Flight 11 was deliberately flown into the North Tower just
before 9am New York time. Minutes later United Airlines Flight 175 slammed into
the south tower. At 9.43am American Airlines Flight 77 crashed into the Pentagon
- the US Department of Defence - while the fourth, United Airlines Flight 93
crashed near Pittsburgh, believed to be targeting the presidential retreat at
Camp David.

The US is today a country in a state of siege. Its borders with Mexico and
Canada are sealed. All flights have been grounded and airports shut.

The stock exchange is closed. For the first time since D-Day major league
baseball games were cancelled. The Emmy awards have been postponed and all
Broadway theatres are closed.

Disneyworld in Florida and Disneyland in California are shut.

The US Atlantic Fleet deployed two aircraft carriers off the East Coast to
provide air defences for Washington and New York and F-16s patrolled the skies
over Washington.

The fleet also deployed five guided-missile cruisers and two guided-missile
destroyers along with amphibious ships carrying Marine Corps and Navy security
forces.

The North American Aerospace Defence Command is on its highest alert. Around the
country, fighters, airborne radars and refuelling planes are taking off.

Controllers did track one of the hijacked planes, but it crashed into the Trade
Center even as fighters were scrambling, said Colonel Mike Perini. The world
business community and international airports wrestled-with the knock-on effects
of the attack. Key indexes sank on world stock markets and many European and
Asian airlines cancelled flights to the United States and recalled planes
already in the air.

In London, as many as an extra 1,000 police were deployed on the streets to
reassure residents and businesses.

Security surrounding US airports was stepped up and commercial flights over the
centre of the capital are banned. President Bush said in an address to the
nation: "Today, our nation saw evil." He said thousands of lives were "suddenly
ended by evil, despicable acts of terror". At the Pentagon, Arlington County
Fire Chief Edward Plaugher said part of the roof of the five-sided building is
still ablaze and firefighters could not yet extinguish the flames.

David Angell, creator and executive producer of the American comedy show
Frasier, was named as one of 56 passengers on United Airlines flight 175 - the
second plane to hit the World Trade Center.

Businesses with offices in the devastated towers have begun to report how many
of their staff were in the buildings at the time. Morgan Stanley had 3,500
workers in the South Tower, City Group said it managed to evacuate its workers
from the plaza level and nearby buildings. Credit Suisse First Boston said its
staff were evacuated.

London based Cantor Fitzgerald International as well as eSpeed International are
still taking stock of how many of their 1,000 staff were on the 101 to 105th
floors. ABM had 800 workers at the centre.

One man caught under the rubble used his phone to reach family in Pennsylvania
with a plea for help.

"He gave specific directions and said he was there along with two New York City
sergeants," said Brian Jones, an emergency telephone coordinator.

Doctors manning the emergency centre at the NYU Downtown Hospital said they saw
mostly firefighters coming in for treatment. Dr Harold van Bosse said: "We keep
hearing word that they are finding pockets of people, and that's why we're all
standing around here. But I just walked over there an hour ago and it didn't
seem like we were getting real close to that."


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: AN EMERGENCY MEDICAL TEAM WASHES OUT THE EYES OF A FIREFIGHTER A FEW
BLOCKS FROM THE WORLD TRADE CENTER EARLY TODAY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 12, 2001

Hunt for five terrorists after Arabic flight manual and Koran are found at
airport;
Terror Attack on US: Tracing the Suspects - Terrorism USA

BYLINE: Justin Davenport

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 363 words


FIVE Arab terrorists are being hunted after police seized a car in Boston which
reportedly contained flight training manuals written in Arabic.

Two of the passenger jets used in yesterday's attacks took off from the city's
Logan International Airport.

The Boston Herald quoted one source as saying that two of the suspects, who had
passports which have been traced to the United Arab Emirates, were brothers, one
of them a trained pilot.

Investigators suspect the brothers were aboard United Airlines Flight 175, which
was flown into the World Trade Center's South Tower.

At least two other suspects were reported to have flown to Boston yesterday from
Portland, Maine, where authorities believe they had travelled after crossing
over from Canada. The luggage of one of the men did not make his scheduled
connection.

The Boston Globe reported the luggage contained a copy of the Koran, an
instructional video on flying commercial airliners and a fuel consumption
calculator.

The Mitsubishi hire car seized by police was identified by a civilian who got
into an altercation with several Arab men as they were parking their car, it was
reported. The unnamed man called Boston police after his own flight landed
yesterday and he learned planes hijacked from Logan had been involved in the
attacks. The car - rented from National Rental Car - has been seized by the FBI.

Meanwhile, detectives interviewed more than 130 people at the airport.

The development came as US officials began focusing on Osama bin Laden, the
prime suspect for the 1993 World Trade Center truck bombing and the 1998
bombings of US embassies in Africa.

According to one report, US intelligence intercepted communications between Bin
Laden supporters discussing the attacks on the World Trade Center and the
Pentagon.

The passenger list of one of the four jets that crashed contained the name of
one man who had been identified as a possible Bin Laden supporter.

The information led the FBI to prepare to search locations in Florida's Broward
County and the Daytona Beach area, locations which had links to the suspected
Bin Laden supporter on the passenger list.


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 12, 2001

'Attack could send the world into recession';
Terror War on US Terrorism USA

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 82 words


THE ATTACK could cost the British economy billions of pounds and push us into
recession, it was claimed today. Martin Hayward, chairman of the Henley Centre -
a consumer research group that advises the retail industry on consumer thinking
- also warned that damage to the travel industry, insurance companies and
consumer confidence in general may push the economy over the edge. He said the
terrorist outrage could be "the straw that breaks the camel's back" of the world
economy.


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 12, 2001

Now US hunts for the enemy within;
Terror War on US: Scale of terror attack points to network of conspirators on
the ground: The Atrocity Terrorism USA

BYLINE: Keith Dovkants

SECTION: Pg. 8;9

LENGTH: 874 words


AMERICA'S security and intelligence agencies are today engaged in a hunt for an
enemy within as emerging evidence from yesterday's atrocities points towards a
network of "sleepers" in the US.

The elite New York Joint Terrorist Task Force, the CIA and FBI are putting
together clues to the identities of the attackers from passenger lists, ticket
sales and closed circuit television film from the three airports where the
hijackers are believed to have boarded the planes.

One thing is certain: the simultaneous seizure of four aircraft involved a large
number of conspirators, not just on the planes themselves but probably on the
ground, too.

With suspicion concentrating on a Middle East connection the security services
are examining the possible involvement of individuals who had become assimilated
into the American system, either through longstanding residency or even
citizenship. Since the 1990-1991 Gulf War intelligence officials have been aware
of large numbers of people from Middle Eastern states, many in the business
community, who have made their home in the US.

If the involvement of the five men identified as suspects in Massachusetts today
is confirmed, it may narrow down the hunt for others in a gang believed to
number at least 30. Some would have been involved in the air travel industry, it
is believed.

Kieran Daly, editor of Air Transport Intelligence, an internet-based news
service, said sleepers could have been airport workers. "People might have
infiltrated into aviation systems years ago and then merely waited to ensure
that all the attacks worked," he said.

While the attacks were almost certainly organised inside the US, inspiration for
them probably came from abroad and attention focused today on Osama bin Laden,
America's most potent terrorist adversary. At 48 Bin Laden is a legend in Arab
dissident and Muslim fundamentalist circles. He runs a training camp for
terrorists in Afghanistan, where the Taliban leadership gives him sanctuary.

About 2,000 volunteers are believed to be housed in this camp, many Palestinians
pledged to give their lives in the war against Israel and its main ally,
America. Bin Laden is believed to have been behind murderous assaults on US
embassies in Africa and American ships.

The security services are already examining striking parallels between the
hijacked plane attacks and other Bin Laden-inspired atrocities. In 1993 one of
his followers, British-educated extremist Ramzi Yousef, masterminded the bombing
of the World Trade Center in an operation intended to level the Twin Towers. He
later blamed a lack of explosives for the failure to cause serious structural
damage.

Yousef, too, conceived a plot to hijack and destroy 12 American planes
simultaneously.

He also had a plan for a suicide pilot to fly a plane into the CIA headquarters
in Langley, Virginia. He is in jail but intelligence officials know he did not
act alone and his network is almost certainly still out there.

Bin Laden has access to substantial funds but access to money does not entirely
explain one of the puzzles of the suicide plane operation - how did the
hijackers target the World Trade Center and the Pentagon so successfully?

Most of Bin Laden's volunteers are angry Palestinians from Gaza and the West
Bank, or dissidents from his own native Saudi Arabia. They are unlikely to
comprise a high number of Boeing-trained pilots ready to carry out a kamikaze
raid.

From the accounts of passengers who managed to make mobile phone calls as the
planes were hijacked, it seems the attackers began by eliminating cabin staff,
stabbing women crew and then moving into the cockpit. The possibility of the
hijackers persuading the pilots to crash their planes into buildings is not
being seriously considered and the current hypothesis is that at a crucial point
the cockpit crew was either murdered or disabled and the plane then flown by
someone with at least some training on the type of aircraft involved.

The fact that the fourth plane crashed in a wood in Pennsylvania, 85 miles from
Camp David, suggests the hijackers met resistance they were unable to overcome.
Flight recorders could provide evidence of what happened to this aircraft and
the way the hijacking and suicide missions were prosecuted.

It is expected the evidence will show at least one hijacker was a pilot able to
control a passenger jet. To arrange this kind of training would probably be
beyond the scope of Bin Laden's camp in Afghanistan, but his international
network includes Iraq and Saddam Hussein, someone who has his own reasons for
wishing to strike against the United States.

It would not be difficult for Iraq to train pilots and the security services are
taking seriously the idea that Saddam may have been involved.

As America moved two aircraft carriers into positions in the Gulf today, there
was speculation they were being readied for cruise missile attacks on Bin
Laden's bases in Afghanistan, a move that followed bombing attacks on the US
embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.

But America's most urgent response will be to try to find those people who, even
now, are within its own borders and perhaps capable of striking again.


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SMOKE FILLS THE SKY AND EMERGENCY VEHICLES AND RUBBLE LINE THE GROUND
AS FIREFIGHTERS STRUGGLE TO DEAL WITH THE DEVASTATION IN NEW YORK; IN THE
SPOTLIGHT: TERROR CHIEF BIN LADEN AND ACOLYTE YOUSEF, WHO BOMBED THE WORLD TRADE
CENTER IN 1993; WRECKAGE: THE PENTAGON BUILDING IN WASHINGTON IS RIVEN IN TWO
AFTER THE HIJACKED AMERICAN AIRLINES FLIGHT 77, A BOEING 757, CRASHED INTO THE
HEADQUARTERS OF THE US MILITARY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 12, 2001

Expect delays on all flights;
Terror Attack on US: Security Terrorism USA

BYLINE: Allan Ramsay

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 121 words


ALL passengers planning to fly out of Heathrow today should ring their airline
before leaving home, BAA warned.

While flights to the US and Canada remain suspended, those planning to travel to
other destinations from the airport should also expect delays, said a BAA
spokeswoman.

Sixty-eight flights had been due to leave for the US alone today and British
Airways has also suspended flights to Tel Aviv and Islamabad.

Flights over central London are still forbidden, adding to delays as flight
paths have to be changed to accommodate this.

BA's number is 0845 7799977, American Airlines' 08457 789 789 and Continental
Airlines' 0800 776 464.

Passengers should also check the website www.baa.com


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: EXTRA POLICE PATROL HEATHROW TODAY. THERE WILL BE DELAYS AND PASSENGERS
ARE ADVISED TO PHONE THEIR FLIGHT OPERATOR

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 12, 2001

London on full alert as police leave is cancelled;
Terror Attack on US: Security Terrorism USA

BYLINE: Deepa Shah

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 634 words


ABOUT 500 extra police are being deployed today to bolster London's defences
against terrorist attack.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens has cancelled their leave and
recalled them from training for operational duties as the capital's emergency
services were put on high alert and all civil flights over London banned.

Sir John was briefing the Prime Minister in Downing Street early today on plans
to protect London. At 10am, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Andrew Trotter planned
to address the Greater London Authority and Mayor Ken Livingstone, who condemned
the atrocity as " monstrous" in a letter to his New York counterpart Rudolph
Giuliani.

London Underground was also placed on a "heightened state of awareness" with
staff told to be "extra vigilant" for anything suspicious or unattended
packages.

Met Commissioner Sir John was over the Atlantic on a flight to New York to
consult FBI chiefs on the terrorist threat when he heard about the devastation
and the plane had to turn back. Sir John moved to reassure Londoners that the
capital could cope should disaster strike on such a scale.

He said: "London could cope as well as New York. Having endured 20 to 25 years
of terrorism, we've got more experience of dealing with these attacks than most
places.

"The City, which has suffered more than most in the past, has been on the
highest level of alert over the Real IRA. We regularly rehearse disaster
scenarios involving terrorist attacks so we're well prepared. However, everybody
has been very shocked by this unimaginable situation."

Sir John and other police chiefs, including RUC Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan,
were flying to New York for talks with the FBI's new chief on anti- terrorism
strategies when reports of the attacks reached them.

Sir John said: "I spoke to the captain who told me we were on our way back and
then told the passengers what had happened. There were many New Yorkers among
them who were incredibly upset and wanted to go home. We had to dump fuel in the
Atlantic before heading back."

He urged Londoners to proceed with "business as usual" today. "Our sympathies go
out to the victims in New York. We have geared up all our resources so that all
vulnerable points in London, such as Heathrow Airport, are covered. Everything
is being done."

Mr Livingstone extended his sympathies to New York's Mayor. "My thoughts are
naturally first with our sister city of New York, but extend to all those in the
United States who have suffered in these attacks.

"Having visited the World Trade Center in January this year to discuss links
between New York and London, I am appalled at the terrible scale of the
destruction and human tragedy.

"That the venue of that meeting has been destroyed brings home to me personally
some sense of the shock New York must now be feeling."

Meanwhile, London Fire Brigade joined the police in insisting that the "major
incident procedure" put into action during disasters like the Paddington rail
crash would "work like clockwork" in the event of such an attack.

A spokesman said: "We always have sufficient resources available. If something
happened in central London a huge number of firefighters from surrounding areas
would be deployed straight away, with brigades from further afield stepping in
to cover their patches to ensure that no part of the capital is left
unprotected."

But Geoff Martin, of London Health Emergency, said hospitals would be stretched
to breaking point. "It would be impossible for the NHS to cope with an emergency
even on a limited scale. We struggle to cope with routine demand when intensive
care beds, paramedics staff and casualty departments are under strain even
without a disaster. We just don't have the spare capacity."


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TRIBUTE: A CARD ATTACHED TO FLOWERS PLACED NEAR THE AMERICAN EMBASSY IN
GROSVENOR SQUARE; CANDLE VIGIL: AMERICANS JONATHON AND DIANE OATIS WITH SON JAY,
NINE, OUTSIDE THE US EMBASSY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 12, 2001

Shocked Londoners pay their respects at embassy;
Terror Attack on US: Reaction Terrorism USA

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 61 words


LONDONERS shocked by the terror attacks on America today left bunches of flowers
and messages of sympathy outside the US embassy in Grosvenor Square. The
tributes included a framed photograph of the New York skyline and cuddly toys.

Earlier, US ambassador William Farish said he had been moved by the dozens of
calls to the embassy expressing sympathy.


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 12, 2001

Football matches, TUC conference called off;
Terror Attack on US: Reaction Terrorism USA

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 613 words


TRADE union leaders called off their congress in Brighton today as a mark of
respect for those killed in the US terror attacks.

European football's governing body has also postponed all its matches including
eight Champions League fixture, including Manchester United, and more than 40
Uefa Cup matches due to be played today and tomorrow.

They had already decided it had been impossible to stop last night's games
without major security problems as many of the fans were already in the grounds
and some matches had started, but a minute's silence was held before the start
of all the matches.

Mayor Ken Livingstone and members of the London Assembly also led a minute's
silence this morning for the victims. At the start of a scheduled Assembly
meeting, the Mayor said he has been briefed by the Met and Londoners should stay
calm in the knowledge that the capital did not face an imminent threat.

"There are no indications that London or the UK has been targeted for any
further attack," he said.

One of the music industry's biggest events, the BMI awards at the Dorchester
Hotel, has also been called off.

At the TUC, Bill Morris, general secretary of the Transport and General Workers
Union, said of the attacks: "They represent a fundamental assault on democracy
and democratic values throughout the world. The grief of the American people
must be our grief."

Mr Morris said it was inevitable that many trade unionists including fire
fighters and police officers would be among the victims of the outrage. He told
delegates there was a widespread feeling that it would be inappropriate to
continue with the conference.

"Many delegates feel it would be fitting for us to show our respect. Simply to
continue with business as usual would not be the right message we want to
convey," he added.

"As a statement of our solidarity we want to propose that we conclude our
business in a dignified and orderly fashion and draw Congress to a close."Mr
Morris told delegates he was aware that this was an "unusual procedure" but he
said it thought it was the right course in these "extraordinarily difficult
circumstances".

A few delegates later argued that the conference should have continued but the
majority agreed it was the appropriate thing to do.

Last night, pop group Hear'Say went ahead with their London concert, observing a
minute's silence.

The Pope joined the condemnation of the attacks describing them as a "dark day
in the history of humanity" but said Americans should have courage to persevere
because "evil will not have the last word".

The Pope, in what is believed to be an unprecedented gesture, opened his weekly
audience by making a strong and lengthy condemnation of the US attacks.

He said they had caused "unspeakable horror" and called them a " terrible
assault against human dignity."

European Union foreign ministers were offering moral support and practical help
to the US today at an emergency meeting. "There will be a very strong message of
support to the president and the people of the United States," said Cristina
Gallach, spokesman for EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana.

"We are also ready to offer practical help, if necessary, for example with
rescue operations and with helping to track down the perpetrators of these
terrible acts," she said.

The head of Russia's SVR foreign intelligence service, in a rare public comment,
said his service was working closely with agencies in the US, Europe and the
Middle East to prevent new attacks. Sergei Lebedev said the attacks had proved
"the global nature of the threat of international terrorism and the need for
joint action".


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CANDLE VIGIL: JONATHON AND DIANE OATIS WITH THEIR SON AT THE EMBASSY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 12, 2001

Bin Laden leads the cheers for terror attackers

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 327 words


SAUDI dissident Osama bin Laden congratulated the people who carried out the
deadly terrorist strikes in the United States, but denied today that he was
involved, a Palestinian journalist said.

"Osama bin Laden thanked All mighty Allah and bowed before him when he heard
this news," said Jamal Ismail, Abu Dhabi Television's bureau chief in Islamabad.

Ismail said one of bin Laden's aides called him early today on a satellite
telephone from a secret hide-out in Afghanistan.

Bin Laden praised the people who carried out the attacks in Washington and New
York, "But he had no information or knowledge about the attack" ahead of time,
Ismail said.

The journalist has long-standing ties with Bin Laden and has won rare interviews
with him several times over the last few years.

Bin Laden is a key suspect in the bombing of two U.S. embassies in East Africa
in August 1998 that killed 224 people, including 12 U.S. citizens.

Washington wants bin Laden to be tried for the bombing, but Afghanistan's ruling
Taliban militia rulers have refused to hand him over, despite tough UN sanctions
against the Taliban.

The Taliban government calls bin Laden their guest and a hero of Islam.

The aide said that bin Laden has described the devastation in the United States
as "a punishment from Allah," Ismail said.

The United States had invited Allah's wrath because it is trying to control the
entire world by force, Ismail said, quoting the aide.

"There are thousands of Muslims who have vowed for jehad (or a holy war) and
martyrdom," according to bin Laden's aide.

"They have experience to fight with all sorts of weapons."

Mullah Sami Al Haq, chairman of the Afghan defence council, who has known bin
Laden for 12 years, insisted today that he was not responsible for yesterday's
terrorist attacks.

He said: "He is a real Muslim and I don't think, therefore, that he could kill
innocent people because it is un-Islamic."

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: OSAMA BIN LADEN

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 12, 2001

WORLD GOES;Precautions put in place to stop more terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 845 words


The world went on a terror alert today as governments stepped up security in the
wake of the attacks that left people wondering whether their cities might be
next.

In London, Tony Blair confirmed the recall of Parliament on Friday, with a
special Cabinet meeting now scheduled for tomorrow.

In London, where planes have been banned from overflying the centre, aviation
experts warned that the RAF has strict orders to shoot down any aircraft
ignoring the restrictions.

Security has also been stepped up at all military bases including the Clyde
naval bases at Coulport and Faslane.

Across the globe, embassies locked their doors and stock markets shut down.

Japan, Australia, Canada, Russia, South Korea, Thailand, Indonesia and the
Philippines were just some of the countries mobilising soldiers or police to
bolster security at potential terrorist targets.

Israel closed itself off by air and land, a move almost unprecedented in peace
time.

Check points were set up outside Hong Kong's Citibank Tower and Asian-Pacific
Financial Tower, and the CN Tower in Toronto, was shut.

Meanwhile, US military forces throughout Asia were on their highest alert.

Some 37,000 US soldiers are stationed in South Korea, while Japan hosts 47,000.

Across the world, schools kept pupils home, and stores, public parks and
skyscrapers cut off access.

LONDON

Downing Street was evacuated by police today as Tony Blair and senior ministers
held a security summit with intelligence chiefs from MI5 and MI6.

The priority for the newly-named Civil Contingencies Committee meeting will be
to review the restrictions on UK airspace, assess the "security profile" of all
UK armed forces, diplomatic and intelligence personnel abroad, and the safety of
UK nationals travelling.

All British military assets will be put at the disposal of the White House if
President George Bush can identify a target for retribution.

Flight paths into London have been changed so there will be no civil overflights
of central London.

About 50 journalists were ordered to leave their positions on the pavements
opposite number 10 by police after a "suspect package" was discovered.

This was later said to be a "false alarm."

Mayor Ken Livingstone urged the city's people to remain vigilant but calm.

He said he had been in regular contact with the Metropolitan Police
Commissioner's office and had seen deputy commissioner Ian Blair today.

Mr Blair had outlined the measures being taken to ensure that London was as safe
as possible.

"One thousand extra police officers are on the streets with high visibility in
the City and Heathrow," Mr Livingstone said.

"The police are working with the business community to assist them with their
security arrangements.

KUALA LUMPUR

Malaysians feared the worst when a bomb threat triggered the evacuation of
thousands of people from the world's tallest buildings, the Petronas Twin
Towers.

A second threat cleared another skyscraper that houses offices for IBM and
Standard Chartered Bank, also in Kuala Lumpur.

Police later ruled out both threats as hoaxes - but another chill was cast when
the US embassy in Jakarta warned that terrorists may be planning a strike
against American interests in Indonesia.

TOKYO

Calling for "utmost vigilance," Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi went
on television to calm the country and outline his defence strategy.

It is to stabilise financial markets, step up military patrols and coordinate an
emergency rescue team to help the US in digging out the World Trade Centre
rubble.

But it was all cold comfort on the streets of Tokyo, where a wary population
still remembers the 1995 nerve gas attack on Tokyo's subway system that killed
12 people and sickened thousands.

Another terrorist attack "could happen in Japan, too, since we're allies with
America," bus driver Kohei Suzuki said.

Today's terrorist warning in Indonesia followed a similar alert last week by the
US State Department to Americans living in Japan and South Korea.

At the time, an embassy spokesman in Tokyo said officials had "credible"
information an attack might occur in the region. So far, it hasn't.

But yesterday's attacks in the United States underlined the need for everybody
to be prepared.

FRANKFURT

Two buildings housing the Stock Exchange were evacuated yesterday after a bomb
threat, a spokesman said.

Police were on the scene and the exchange also stepped up security on the
trading floor in central Frankfurt after the terrorist attacks on the World
Trade Centre in New York, spokesman Walter Allsicher said.

The threat was called into the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper police
spokesman Franz Winkler said. The bomb was supposed to go off 20 minutes after
the call.

It was unclear how many people were in the buildings when the threat came in.

Police sealed off the area around the old trading floor in central Frankfurt and
were clearing a cafe next door.

Normal trading hours ended 45 minutes early.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Occupants of the Petronas Twin Towers, the world's tallest
building,gather at its base after a bomb scare in Kuala Lumpur. The 6000 workers
were all safely evacuated.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 12, 2001

HIGH FLYER OF THE DAY; PLEA FOR CALM AFTER HORROR OF TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 139 words


AFTER sitting watching the tragic events of the day unfold I feel compelled to
write to send my deepest condolences to all the families of those killed or
injured in the terrorist attacks.

It brings me out in a cold sweat to think of the people behind the attacks
sitting and planning the whole operation. That they can wipe out the lives of
thousands of innocent people in order to further their cause is quite
nauseating.

It is terrifying to think of all the hatred that must have built up over the
generations to bring them to that point. My only hope now is for calm to reign
in the wake of all the terror. I hope that President Bush can rise to the
challenge thrown down to him and that he can act with wisdom. And I hope that
the American people can likewise resist the urge to retaliate.

L Wheatstone, Perth

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                               September 12, 2001

'It is worse than ever you could imagine'
 FIREFIGHTER DESCRIBES THE CARNAGE OF usa'S WORST TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: AGENCY:AGENCY:AGENCY, Pg.2

LENGTH: 677 words


THE world was today coming to terms with the worst terrorist attack in its
history, which claimed thousands of lives in America.

No one has been able to put a figure on how many people may have lost their
lives in New York, Washington and Pittsburgh yesterday.

It is feared thousands may have perished, including up to 300 rescue workers,
when two planes crashed into New York's World Trade Centre, causing it to
collapse.

Around 800 people may have been killed when a third plane hit the Pentagon in
the US capital. More died on the Boeing 767 which crashed 80 miles south-east of
Pittsburgh.

The culprits have yet to be caught but today five Arab men - one of them a pilot
- have been identified as suspects in the terror outrage, the Boston Globe
reported.

Police seized a rented car containing Arabic- language flight training manuals
at Logan International Airport, a source told the paper.

Two of the men were brothers whose passports were traced to the United Arab
Emirates. One was a trained pilot, the paper reported.

It said investigators suspect the two brothers were aboard hijacked United
Airlines flight 175, which crashed into the World Trade Centre.

In a section of the West Bank and the Palestinian town of Nablus, thousands
celebrated in the streets, chanting "God is Great" and distributed candy in a
traditional gesture of celebration.

Russian President Vladimir Putin called the attacks "terrible tragedies."

Prime Minister Tony Blair conducted a special meeting at Downing Street this
morning. At one point the street was evacuated after a suspect package was
found. It was not dangerous.

Rescue workers dug for bodies in mountains of rubble as New York struggled to
recover from the airborne attack.

Firefighter Rudy Weindler spent nearly 12 hours trying to find survivors and
only found four - a pregnant woman sitting on a kerb and three others in the
rubble of a building in the trade centre complex.

"I lost count of all the dead people I saw," Weindler said. "It is absolutely
worse than you could ever imagine."

Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said police had received mobile phone calls from people
trapped in the debris.

"There are people that are still alive," he said.

President George Bush estimated the dead in the thousands.

He addressed his nation last night and said: "This is a day when all Americans,
from every walk of life, unite in our resolve for justice and peace."

The final death toll may not be known for weeks.

The four planes had 266 people aboard. Authorities said between 100 and 800
people were believed dead at the Pentagon.

The mayor said hospitals had treated 1,100 injured by last night. But apparently
most of the victims remained buried, and ground zero at the World Trade Centre
was inaccessible for hours after the disaster due to the fire, smoke, wreckage
and searing heat.

Fire Commissioner Thomas Von Essen estimated that more than 300 firefighters
were missing. Dozens of police are also feared dead.

Cranes 120 feet tall and bulldozers were brought in to clear the streets.

PRIME Minister Tony Blair today held 75 minutes of emergency talks at No 10
today in the wake of the US terror attacks.

The meeting of the Cabinet's civil contingencies committee began at 8am and
broke up at 9.15am.

There was no immediate word of the outcome of the talks, chaired by Mr Blair and
involving Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott, Chancellor Gordon Brown, Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw, Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon, Home Secretary David
Blunkett and other senior ministers.

MALAYSIANS today feared the worst when a bomb threat triggered the morning
evacuation of thousands of people from the world's tallest buildings - the
Petronas Twin Towers in Kuala Lumpur.

A second threat cleared another skyscraper that houses offices for IBM and
Standard Chartered Bank in Malaysia's biggest city.

Police later ruled both threats a prank - but another chill was cast when the US
embassy in Jakarta warned that terrorists may be planning a strike against
American interests in Indonesia.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2001 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                               September 12, 2001

MPs tell of shock and horror as terrorist attack unfolded

SECTION: NEWS:999:Disasters, Pg.3

LENGTH: 347 words


GRIMSBY and Cleethorpes MPs Austin Mitchell and Shona McIsaac have spoken of the
horror and shock they felt as the American atrocities unfolded.

Ms McIsaac was in Barton when the first attacks happened, and was informed by
members of the public who invited her in to their homes to watch the tragedy on
television.

She said: "It is one of those questions, isn't it? Where were you when Kennedy
was shot? Where were you when Diana died in the car crash?

"Events which stop us in our tracks through sheer disbelief at the horror of it
all. Events which shake the world.

"Now we've got a question to add to the list.

"Where were you when the world's tallest building was destroyed by the world's
worst act of terrorism? It was a tragedy when Kennedy was shot and when Diana
died, but this is so, so much worse.

"We don't know how many have died - hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands?

"What we do know is that today there are people waiting to hear news of someone
who's missing, hoping someone will walk through the door.

"My heart goes out to all those waiting and hoping.

"And I think of all the times I phoned my husband, Peter, when he was working in
the World Trade Centre. Many of his friends and colleagues worked there, we
don't know what's happened to them.

"They just went to work. That's the real horror of this for me, that's what was
so sickening."

Grimsby MP Austin Mitchell, a regular holidaymaker in the USA, has warned
against knee-jerk reactions from the US.

He said: "This is beyond anyone's imagination. The fact is this has been so
highly organised with planes being hijacked and the aircrews killed so the
planes could be flown on these missions.

"All I can do is think of the horror and the cost to humanity of it.

"The number of people killed is going to be quite horrendous. It is a national
tragedy for the United States and a tragedy for the world.

"One just does not know what to do. There is no point in revenge attacks until
we know how it has been organised.

"It is a tragedy but there should not be any rash reactions."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SHONA McISAAC: Heart goes out to those awaiting news. AUSTIN MITCHELL:
This is beyond anyone's imagination.

                    Copyright 2001 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                               September 12, 2001

Terrorist attack on America

SECTION: AGENCY:AGENCY:AGENCY, Pg.5

LENGTH: 1247 words


THE worst terrorist attack in world history in which thousands are believed to
have died began when four jetliners were hijacked shortly after takeoff from
Boston, Newark, New Jersey and Boston.

The day blew up into tragedy shortly before 9am local time (2pm) BST when there
was a massive explosion near the top of one of the Trade Centre's 110 storey
twin towers.

It was a CNN TV executive who broke the news that a twin-engined jet liner had
crashed straight into the office block, where 50,000 people work.Smoke and
flames poured out of the tower as emergency teams rushed to the scene.

Then, 18 minutes later, a second airliner was captured on TV cameras being lined
up and then crashing into the tower just below the first impact.

It was then that the US realised this was not a tragic accident, but a blatant
and daring act of terrorism.

At first, American Airlines said they were both their planes - Flight 11,
hijacked after take-off from Boston with 92 people on board and Flight 77, which
was seized while carrying 64 people from Washington to Los Angeles.

Later, the airline said that was unconfirmed and a pilot who witnessed the
Pentagon attack said the plane he saw crash into the defence building was an
American Airlines 757.

United's pilots union said United Flight 175 crashed into the Trade Centre. That
flight was a Boeing 767 bound from Boston to Los Angeles with 65 people on
board.

Then a United Airlines jet plunged into the ground in Pennsylvania. It was said
to be heading for the presidential retreat at Camp David in Maryland.

A terrified passenger on that plane dialled 911 (US 999) from a toilet and told
an operator that the plane "was going down."

Operator Glenn Cramer said heard some sort of explosion and saw white smoke
coming from the plane and we lost contact with him."

United Airlines said Flight 93 left Newark at 8:01 am (1301 BST) with 38
passengers, two pilots and five flight attendants.

Then the Pentagon - the headquarters of the US military - was targeted. At 0920
(1420 BST), another hijacked crashed into the famous fives sides building.

The US panicked from coast to coast.

There was no attempt to minimise the impact.

"This is the second Pearl Harbour. I don't think that I overstate it," said
Senator Chuck Hagel, referring to the attack 60 years ago that surprised the
United States and propelled it into the Second World War.

Chris Yates, an aviation expert at Jane's Transport in London, said "This is
perhaps the most audacious terrorist attack that's ever taken place in the
world."

In reaction, the world's most powerful nation virtually cut itself off from the
rest of the globe and President Bush, who had been in Florida was rushed to
Louisiana air force base then Strategic Air Command HQ in Nebraska before
heading to Washington.

President Bush was in Sarasota, Florida, reading to children in a classroom when
his chief of staff, Andrew Card, whispered into his ear.

The president briefly turned sombre before he resumed reading.

He ordered all resources go to help the victims and "hunt down and find those
folks who committed this act..

"Terrorism against this nation will not stand," he said.

The top leaders of Congress were led to the safety of an undisclosed location
and military aircraft were patrolling the skies above Washington.

But that was not an end to the atrocities.

The Pentagon - nerve centre of the US military - burst into flames and a portion
of one side of the five-sided structure collapsed when another plane struck.

Secondary explosions were reported in the aftermath of the attack and great
billows of smoke drifted skyward toward the Potomac River and the city beyond.

Victims, many in critical condition, were rushed to hospitals in the region.

"The whole building shook" with the impact, said Terry Yonkers, an Air Force
civilian employee at work inside the Pentagon at the time of the attack.

"There was screaming and pandemonium," he said, but the evacuation ordered
shortly afterward was carried out smoothly.

A torrent of people rushed from their office buildings throughout the capital,
eager to leave a city under siege. The mobile phone networks were overloaded,
clusters of people sprayed on the pavements and at least one suburban school
district announced plans to close early.

New York - where terrorist bombers struck the World Trade Centre in February
1993, killing six people and injuring more than 1,000 others - was in shock

"A second occurrence is just beyond belief," said Ira Furber, former National
Transportation Safety Board spokesman.

Several subway lines were immediately shut down. Trading on Wall Street was
halted.

"We heard a large boom and then we saw all this debris just falling," said
Harriet Grimm, who was inside a bookstore on the World Trade Centre's first
floor when the first explosion rocked the building.

"The plane was coming in low and it looked like it hit at a slight angle," said
Sean Murtagh, a CNN vice president.

New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani did not even want to contemplate what the
number of lost police officers and firefighters would be.

"When the building collapsed, we had a lot of police officers and firefighters
in the building, and I know many of them, because I saw many of them go in, I'm
praying for them.

"The losses to our police and fire department are going to be severe."

He added: "I never thought I would see anything like this happen. I got there
after the first plane hit and before the second. Watching people jump from the
top of the World Trade Centre was an unbelievable sight."

A female eye witness said: "I saw people jumping off the building, there were
many people just jumping.

"Everybody was screaming, everybody was running, the cops were trying to
maintain calm. People were stampeding, they started screaming that there was
another plane coming. The second building just exploded, all the debris was
flying towards us."

She added: "It was absolute horror. I can't even look back there. My
six-year-old boy asked me and my husband only last week to take him to the
observation deck.

"But Americans will persevere, I don't think we will stoop to the level of the
zealot terrorist pigs."

The planes blasted fiery, gaping holes in the upper floors of the twin towers.

About an hour later, the southern tower collapsed with a roar and a huge cloud
of smoke; the other tower fell about a half-hour after that, covering lower
Manhattan in heaps of grey rubble and broken glass. Firefighters trapped in the
rubble radioed for help.

Authorities had been trying to evacuate those who work in the twin towers when
the glass -and-steel skyscrapers came down in a thunderous roar within about 90
minutes after the crashes

But many people were thought to have been trapped. About 50,000 people work at
the Trade Centre and tens of thousands of others visit each day.

And the Federal Aviation Administration ordered the entire US air traffic system
shut down.

Abdel-Bari Atwan, editor of the Al-Quds, an Arabi newspaper, said he received a
warning from Islamic fundamentalists close to bin Laden, but did not take the
threat seriously.

"They said it would be a huge and unprecedented attack, but they did not
specify," Atwan said in London.

Evacuations were ordered at the United Nations in New York and at the Sears
Tower in Chicago. Los Angeles mobilised its anti-terrorism division and security
was intensified around naval installations.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2001 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 12, 2001

Terrorist attacks send shudders through world financial markets ;Strike at heart
of capitalism

BYLINE: Ian Mcconnell Deputy Business Editor

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1099 words


WORLD stock markets were last night staring into the abyss, as terrorist attacks
on the centre

of US capitalism threatened to shatter consumer confidence and plunge the
American economy into recession.

The FTSE-100 index in London plummeted to its worst one-day points loss since
the stock market crash of October 1987, with about (pounds) 67bn wiped off the
value of leading shares. The Footsie tumbled 287.7 points, or 5.7%., to a fresh
three-year low of 4746 points.

Stock markets around the globe plunged, amid fears that economies around the
world would slow further or even be dragged into recession.

Wall Street, much of which is driven from the destroyed World Trade Centre in
New York, did not open for business and will remain closed today.

Edinburgh-based fund manager Ian Rushbrook, who has one of the best track
records over many years, predicted there would be further plunges in world stock
markets.

He said last night: "What happened today guarantees the US will have a
recession. The consumer reaction will be very, very significant.

"Whatever (Federal Reserve chairman Alan) Greenspan wants to take off interest
rates now is irrelevant. The American consumer will not be spending and he wants
to go to war. Is it serious? Yes, it is very serious."

He added: "We are seeing attacks on the centre of Ameri-can capitalism - the
capitalist icons of two World Trade Centre towers."

Rushbrook, whose gloomy view on stock valuations had seen him move more than
half of his (pounds) 80m Personal Assets Trust to cash even before yesterday,
predicted Wall Street might not reopen today because of the amount of telecoms
and other infrastructure in the area affected.

But he believed other stock markets must. He said: "I think it is very important
to ensure that markets are allowed to operate even if it is catastrophic in

terms of pricing. It is an open market."

Spokespeople for the London Stock Exchange, for the pan-European Euronext
exchange and Deutsche Boerse, and the Vienna, Copenhagen, Stockholm, and Milan
stock markets said trading would continue as normal today.

A bomb threat last night to the Deutsche Boerse - which closed trading early -
cast some doubt on Frankfurt trading today.

Traders were forecasting US stock market indices could plunge more than 5%
whenever trading did restart.

Trading volumes are likely to be thin this morning in Europe because of the
absence of US guidance. But movements could be exaggerated by lack of volume.

The oil price surged to a nine-month peak of $ 31.05 and trading on the
International Petro-

leum Exchange was suspended for one hour because trading volumes leapt and the
exchange could not keep up.

Brent crude oil futures eased back at the reopening but still closed $ 1.61
higher on the day at $ 29.06-a-barrel.

The dollar tumbled. The pound was last night about one-and-a-half cents higher
against the US greenback at $ 1.474.

A flight to safer investments pushed gold up $ 18.45 on its Monday close in New
York to $ 290.10 per ounce last night, and commodity prices surged.

Shares in oil companies leapt.

British Petroleum jumped 27.5p to 588.5p. One oil ana-

lyst noted that about 20 million BP shares had changed hands

in one half-hour period in the aftermath of the US tragedy - four or five times
the normal volume.

But shares in insurers, especially those with big US exposure, tumbled. CGNU was
a casualty in the UK, and Swiss Re, the world's second-largest reinsurance firm,
plunged 17.3% to SwFr126.5 in a Zurich stock market which was down 7.1%.

The French equity market tumbled 7.4%, and insurer Axa was a casualty, and the
Deutsche Boerse in Frankfurt was down 8.5%.

British Airways suffered as the City braced itself for a plunge in travel,
especially to and from North America, and shares in Hilton also fell as a result
of

this.

Jim Kerr, head of foreign exchange trading at Royal Bank of Scotland, predicted
equity markets would fall further

today assuming they reopened and the dollar would continue to slide.

He said: "It is a difficult one to call going forward. You have got to fancy a
continuation of what we have seen so far anyway."

One oil analyst, who declined to be named, forecast a plunge in demand for crude
and believed it would be "very hard to shore up oil prices" at current levels
because a loss of confidence would affect demand.

The analyst drew a distinction between the current situation and the build-up to
the Gulf war in late 1990 and early 1991 - believing the current situation was
not going to affect the oil supply.

But he added: "I think it is going to have a phenomenal impact on demand - (on)
global confidence with regard to consumption of oil, of energy.

"Your average holidaymaker in North America is not going to travel. It is going
to impact severely."

Rushbrook predicted US president George W Bush would have to react aggressively
and that an escalation of hostilities would be bad news for world stock markets.

The fund manager said: "You are looking effectively at terrorists launching a
Pearl Harbour on the United States. They have attacked a very visible part of
the American economy.

"I think Bush has got to respond in a quite ferocious manner, otherwise he has
no future (as) president. Does it bode well for world stock markets? No way. In
terms of damage to the international system or the US financial system, what has
been taken out in terms of those two buildings is very, very significant. How
quickly they can recover, I have no idea."

The Footsie, which had plunged through 4900 but regained the key 5000 level
before the close on Monday, had been up 95 points at one stage yesterday.

Kerr highlighted how activity had ground to a halt not just in the affected
cities of New York and Washington but right across the US.

His team had called a bank in Detroit through which it bought and sold foreign
exchange every day - yesterday morning US time - and staff were already heading
home.

Even in the UK, some fund managers stopped trading before the London stock
market reached its 4.30pm close.

A spokesman for Aegon

Asset Management, which runs (pounds) 34bn from Edinburgh, said: "We stopped
trading immedi-ately. We are not going to

trade off the back of a human tragedy."

A spokeswoman at Standard Life said of its investment arm: "They are concerned
about the people affected."

The London Stock Exchange evacuated its Exchange Tower headquarters yesterday
afternoon as a precautionary measure.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                               September 12, 2001

BECAUSE of the scale of death and destruction in the United States yesterday, we
have decided to devote today's edition of your Mail almost entirely to the
terrorist attacks and their aftermath.

BYLINE: by MelCook3

SECTION: NEWS:999'disasters, Pg.2

LENGTH: 26 words


We have also postponed until tomorrow the launch of our Bingo game. Bingo
numbers that should have appeared in today's Mail will be printed tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Hull Daily Mail

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                               September 12, 2001

'The ultimate terrorist attack ... nothing like it has happened'

BYLINE: by angusyoung3

SECTION: NEWS:999;disasters, Pg.18

LENGTH: 493 words


THE "ultimate suicide bombers" were behind the American attacks, according to a
Hull security expert.

Dr Eric Grove, director of the University of Hull's centre for security studies,
said he had been "staggered" by the sheer scale of the atrocities.

He said: "Like everyone else, I was abso$ -lutely shocked when I heard the news
- shocked and staggered.

"Nothing like this has ever happened before. It is certainly the worst terrorist
attack in the real meaning of the word terrorism."

Dr Grove said the incidents appeared to be highly professional and co-ordinated.

"Terrorist groups have spent the past 30 or 40 years working towards something
like this," he added.

"Many of these groups work together, and in$-evitably a sophisticated level of
professional$-ism has developed over the years.

"The finger of blame for these unprece$-dented assaults appears to be pointing
at Osama bin Laden, who has warned recently he was planning a big attack on
America.

"I would not be surprised if bin Laden was involved. America's support for
Israel has in$ -furiated the more extreme Islamic fundamen$-talists, and these
attacks are highly symbolic.

"The targets have been specifically chosen. The terrorists obviously wanted to
achieve something outrageous while also striking at what they see as the heart
of western capital$-ism. You couldn't find more potent symbols than the World
Trade Centre and the Pen$-tagon."

Dr Grove added: "The recent suicide bomb$-ings in Israel were, in hindsight, a
warning of what was to come. Usually, people who hijack aeroplanes use the
passengers to achieve an end. But in this horrific case, the passengers were
unwilling kamikazes at the mercy of the ultimate suicide bombers.

"If anything, the contemplation of such death and destruction shows the utter
desper$-ation among some Islamic groups."

Dr Grove said he believed the Americans would avoid an immediate military
reaction.

"I think the American response will be mea$-sured. Part of the aim of the
terrorists is to get the Americans to over-react.

"The Americans are not stupid and will know they are being quite deliberately
pro$ -voked. The test for President Bush and his ad$-visors will be to decide
what public opinion will demand rather than allow.

"I think there will be a demand for serious action but I suspect that, in
reality, plans will be put into effect which allow the likes of the FBI, the CIA
and the American Special Forces a wider remit than at present to settle a few
old scores."

Dr Grove said his visits to the Pentagon and the World Trade Centre had
reassured him that security measures were tight.

But he said the hijacking of internal domes$-tic flights to be ultimately used
as flying bombs had revealed an Achilles' heel in Amer$-ica's national security.

"Americans use internal flights like we use trains and security on these
services does seem to have been overlooked," he added.

ayoung@hulldailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Hull Daily Mail

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

TERROR IN AMERICA: PAST ATTACKS ON AMERICA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 280 words


A decade ago, the United States had almost no experience of terrorist attacks on
its own soil. What has transpired since has been a gradual, and ever deepening,
loss of innocence about its vulnerability to attack from hostile forces.

The World Trade Centre, obliterated in yesterday's attacks, was previously a
target on 26 February 1993 when a car bomb exploded in a basement garage. That
attack killed six people, injured hundreds of others and caused $ 300m in
damage. The Muslim cleric Omar Abdel Rahman was convicted along with 10 other
Islamic militants.

A far greater calamity occurred in April 1995 when a truck bomb devastated the
Alfred P Murrah federal building in Oklahoma City, killing 168 people and
severely injuring more than 500 others. That attack had its origins in the world
of white supremacist right-wing militia members who saw the federal government
as part of a Zionist conspiracy to take over the world.

Timothy McVeigh, a decorated Gulf War veteran, was eventually held responsible
for carrying out the attack, with some logistical help from two former army
buddies. McVeigh became the first federal prisoner to be executed in 38 years
when he was put to death by lethal injection in June.

Both of these attacks have raised questions about the number of people involved
and the role of federal authorities in failing to prevent the attacks from going
ahead.

Recent years have also seen an increase in attacks on US targets overseas. In
1996 a military housing complex in Saudi Arabia was bombed, with the loss of 19
US military personnel. In 1998 the US embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam
were bombed, killing 224 people.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

TERROR IN AMERICA: THE PENTAGON, WASHINGTON - ATTACK DEALS A BLOW TO HEART OF
THE US DEFENCE SYSTEM

BYLINE: Matthew Beard The Pentagon lacked a shield against attack from the skies
Hyungwon; Kang

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 570 words


AS THE headquarters of the United States Department of Defence, the Pentagon is
widely considered one of the safest and most impregnable structures in the
world.

Security at the complex in Washington DC - the nerve centre for command and
control of America's military might - is said by defence experts to be extremely
tight to protect its mass of military secrets.

About 26,000 military and civilian personnel work in the building, which was
built in the Second World War near the Potomac river and Washington national
airport. Staff are subjected to rigorous vetting and daily identity checks.

But security experts said yesterday that the five-sided building - thought to be
the world's biggest office complex - has an Achilles' heel: lack of a shield
against attack from the air. This was exposed to devastating effect when a plane
crashed into the building during morning working hours.

The plane - reported to be a commercial jumbo jet - crashed into the west side
of the building, according to eyewitnesses. This area contains offices thought
to house army officials who work in planning and logistics.

Defence experts said yesterday that, although restrictions on air traffic
movements operate in the sky above the complex - civilian aircraft are banned -
no air shield was in force. Military chiefs had not conceived of a missile
threat.

But Nick Cook, of Jane's Defence Weekly magazine, said that, even if an air
defence system had been in force at the Pentagon, troops would have been
reluctant to open fire on a civilian aircraft.

Mr Cook said: "The security is tight but there is nothing you can do against an
airliner. It was a hopeless situation."

The massive planning effort behind yesterday's attack was far beyond anything
conceived by counter-terrorism officials, who have focused on preventing
individual attacks, according to Steven Emerson of the Investigative Project, a
research group that focuses on international terrorism.

"No one thought there was a capability of doing simultaneous attacks, so none of
the counter-terrorism scenarios ever envisioned this," he said.

Authorities have examined the chances of individual attacks on high-profile
targets, including an attack on a large building using a commandeered plane, he
added. But most research examining the potential for attacks causing devastating
loss of life has focused on chemical or biological means, he said.

It was not clear if the Defence Secretary, Donald Rumsfeld, was in the building
at the time of the crash, which occurred near a helicopter landing pad on the
south-western side.

Last year, the Pentagon was penetrated as far as the Defence Secretary's office
by undercover investigators posing as law enforcement officers. Pentagon
officials pledged to improve security after the breach by agents working for
Congress' investigative arm.

The official Pentagon website says that the five-sided building is "virtually a
city within itself", housing around 23,000 military and civilian employees and
3,000 support personnel dedicated to protecting US national interests.

It was completed on 15 January 1943, and has three times the floor space of the
Empire State Building in Manhattan, New York. The complex has 17.5 miles of
corridors and was designated a national historic landmark in 1992. A multi-
billion-dollar renovation project was under way to update the building.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

TUC IN BRIGHTON: CANCELLED BLAIR SPEECH GAVE FIRM BACKING TO EURO;
 PRIME MINISTER DROPS HIS ADDRESS ON THE SINGLE CURRENCY AS CONFERENCE SUSPENDS
BUSINESS FOLLOWING US TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: Barrie Clement Labour Editor Tony Blair: Planned to speak in favour of
euro

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 557 words


THE PRIME Minister was due to deliver yesterday what would have been one of his
strongest speeches in support of the European single currency since he took
office.

However, as the scale of the atrocities in America became clear, Tony Blair
cancelled his planned address to the TUC conference in Brighton and made a
statement offering his sympathy to the victims' families and declaring his
determination to form a worldwide front against terrorism.

The TUC later suspended its conference - the first time it has done so in living
memory - and cancelled a dinner that was to be addressed by Mr Blair. In copies
of his speech distributed before his intended address to TUC delegates, Mr Blair
had failed to offer the assurances that trade unionists were seeking over the
scale of private involvement in the delivery of public services.

As a mark of respect for the victims in the US, union leaders declined to
comment, but it is expected there will now be a major row on the subject at the
Labour Party conference later this month, when the Prime Minister faces defeat
on the issue.

It was not clear last night whether the TUC conference would resume today when
delegates were due to debate the issue. Mr Blair's intended remarks on the euro
were designed to draw attention away from the row over plans to increase private
involvement in public services and indicate his enthusiasm for the euro.

While not committing the Government to any imminent referendum on the single
currency, he emphasised that a successful euro was in Britain's interest and
that, provided economic conditions were met, it was still in our interests to
join. He said that three million jobs and nearly 60 per cent of international
commerce relied on trade with the European Union. "It is the most integrated
regional bloc of nations the world has seen and it now works together on issues
of common foreign defence policy.

"Tell me what nation anywhere, faced with such a strategic alliance right on its
doorstep, at the crux of international politics, would isolate itself from that
alliance." It would be an "absurd denial" of self-interest, he said.

Mr Blair was to remind delegates that from next January the euro would be
circulating in 12 of the 15 EU countries. Sweden was considering membership and
while Denmark had rejected it, the country's currency remained tied to the euro.

Mr Blair's speech notes said: "All those people who said it would never happen
now content themselves with saying it will be a disaster. I believe they are
wrong. And a successful euro is in our interest. So provided the economic
conditions are met, it is right that Britain joins."

However, it was known that his planned references to plans for public services
would have failed to placate Labour's biggest union affiliates. Senior trade
unionists had demanded that Mr Blair provide details of his plans for private
-sector involvement in state services.

However, he would have told them that the areas where there might be a role for
the private sector had already been spelled out "with crystal clarity" in the
published plan for the NHS, the Education White Paper and in the 10-year
transport strategy. However, he intended to tell union leaders that they would
be consulted if the proposals change.

Leading article, Review, page 3

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               September 12, 2001

Terrorist attack was a crime against humanity: McAleese;

BYLINE: By Valerie Robinson

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 436 words


TAOISEACH Bertie Ahern has described yesterday's terrorist attack on the US as
"terrible and evil".

Emerging from a meeting with President George W Bush's adviser on Northern
Ireland Richard Haass Mr Ahern condemned the "horrendous attacks", and expressed
condolences to the American people.

"At this time our thoughts are with the families of the victims in their
mourning and we offer our deep and heartfelt condolences to President Bush and
the American people, " he said.

President of Ireland, Mary McAleese described the atrocities as "crimes against
the very foundation of our humanity".

President McAleese, who spoke to the US Ambassador to Ireland Richard Egan in
the wake of yesterday's attacks, said it was "unbearable and almost unbelievable
for the rest of the world to be witnessing such wanton destruction of human life
in front of our eyes".

Mrs McAleese said all Irish citizens had friends and relatives in the US, adding
that the attacks were "doing what they were designed to do. . . spreading terror
and fear and panic".

The president said the attackers had succeeded in showing the rest of the world
"how low, how utterly, unbearably, unbelievably low human beings can sink in
their hatred for one another".

Meanwhile the Republic's foreign affairs minister Brian Cowen cut short his
Middle East trip in the wake of the terrorist strikes.

Mr Cowen who was on a factfinding mission to the region was travelling to a
meeting with Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat when the attacks began in
Washington and New York.

As speculation mounted on Middle Eastern responsibility for the atrocities, Mr
Cowen said the Palestinian president had condemned the mass murder and stressed
his support and sympathy for the American people.

Mr Cowen, who will today attend a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Brussels,
said he had discussed with Mr Arafat the need to "show solidarity in this
terrible time and to confirm that everybody in the international community,
everyone in civilised society must work now to bring the perpetrators of these
heinous acts to justice".

Tanaiste Mary Harney condemned the atrocities as "deeply shocking and
outrageous".

Fine Gael leader Michael Noonan also expressed his party's sympathy for the
American people saying that "an attack on democracy anywhere is an attack on all
of us who believe in and work the democratic system".

Labour's foreign affairs spokesman Michael D Higgins said the scale of carnage
in Washington, New York and Pittsburgh was "virtually unimaginable" and
condemned the attacks as "mass murder".

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONDEMNATION: Bertie Ahern

                     Copyright 2001 The Irish News Limited

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               September 12, 2001

Terrorist attacks on the US;

SECTION:  Pg. 12

LENGTH: 444 words


October 2000: Terrorist bombing kills 17 US sailors aboard the USS Cole as it
refuelled in Yemen's port of Aden. US says Saudi exile Osama bin Laden prime
suspect.

August 7 1998: Car bombs explode outside US embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar
es Salaam, Tanzania, within minutes of each other, killing 224 people and
wounding thousands of others. Bin Laden is again blamed.

June 25 1996: Truck-bomb explodes outside the Khobar Towers, Dharan, eastern
Saudi Arabia, killing 19 US servicemen and wounding hundreds of various
nationalities. Members of a little-known Saudi militant group, Hezbollah, were
indicted for the attack.

September 13 1995: Rocketpropelled grenade pierces wall of US embassy in Moscow,
but causes no injuries.

November 13 1995: Car bomb detonates at a US military headquarters in Riyadh,
Saudi Arabia, killing five US service personnel.

April 19 1995: Bomb rips through the Alfred P Murrah Federal Building in
downtown Oklahoma City, killing 168 and wounding more than 500.

Former US soldier Timothy McVeigh is convicted of carrying out the attack; he
was executed earlier this year.

February 26 1993: A bomb explodes in a parking garage below the World Trade
Center in New York, killing six people and wounding more than 1,000. Six Islamic
militants were convicted of the bombing and sentenced to life in prison.

December 21 1988: Pan Am Boeing 747 explodes over Lockerbie, Scotland, on a
flight from London to New York, killing 270 people including residents of the
town.

September 5 1986: Hijackers seize Pan Am jumbo jet carrying 358 people at
Karachi Airport. Twenty people killed when security forces storm the plane.

October 8 1985: Crippled American Jew Leon Klinghoffer killed by Palestinian
militants who had seized the Italian cruise liner Achille Lauro.

June 14 1985: Shiite gunmen seize a TWA Boeing 727, forcing it to Beirut,
Lebanon.

They demand the release of 700 Arabs held by Israel. A US Navy diver is killed
and 39 Americans are held until they are released on July 1 after Syrian
mediation.

September 20 1984: A car bomb at a US embassy annex in east Beirut, Lebanon,
kills 16 and injures the ambassador.

December 12 1983: Shiite extremists set off car bombs in front of the US and
French embassies in Kuwait City, killing five people and wounding 86.

October 23 1983: Shiite suicide bomber blows up US Marine barracks in Beirut,
Lebanon, killing 241 marines.

April 18 1983: Suicide car bomber blows up US embassy in Beirut, killing 17
Americans.

November 4 1979: Islamic students storm US embassy in Tehran, Iran, holding 52
Americans hostage for 444 days.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STATE OF CONFUSION: Top, American Airlines planes grounded at Logan
International Airport yesterday, one of the two planes that crashed into the
World Trade Center in New York was an American Airlines plane. Middle, an
injured person from the Pentagon is loaded into an ambulance after the
Washington building took a direct hit from an aircraft. Left, people cover their
mouths as the make their way through the smoke after the World Trade Center
collapsed

                     Copyright 2001 The Irish News Limited

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                               September 12, 2001

terror in the streets: New Yorkers run for their lives after the hijacked jets
crashed into the World Trade Centre Tower yesterday at the beginning of the
terrorist attacks that stunned the world

BYLINE: by LMarlow

SECTION: News:999:Terrorism, Pg.11

LENGTH: 963 words


Terror that strikes at the heart of America

It was a terrorist attack that stunned the world. Why there? And what next? Lee
Marlow and ADAM WAKELIN investigate

It was the single biggest and most dramatic attack on America, in that country's
conflict-strewn history. The targets were the bricks and mortar embodiment of
the United States' power and wealth - the twin 1,300ft towers of the Word Trade
Centre in New York and the Pentagon in Washington.

It's not hard to see why, says Professor Nick Cull, director of American Studies
at the University of Leicester.

"You can see it in Freudian terms," he said. "The symbolism is immense. Blowing
up the World Trade Centre can be seen as an attempt to emasculate America. I am
sure that is not lost on who did it.

"The Pentagon and the World Trade Centre are the two symbolic centres of the
United States' financial and military might."

As thick plumes of smoke smothered Manhattan's skyline yesterday, fingers of
blame were already pointing towards the Middle East.

"I have already heard American commentators saying 'this day will live in the
infamy of the 21st century'," said Prof Cull.

"That is a direct borrowing from Roosevelt's speech after Pearl Harbour which
said 'this day will live in history'. I think that is significant. The US media
is going nuts. The impact is going to reverberate across America."

"Every war that America has taken part in has had its beginning in an unprovoked
attack on US sovereignty."

The Spanish American War began with the sinking of the battleship Maine, the
Lusitania's sinking by German forces dragged it into the First World War, the
bombing of Pearl Harbour saw the US declare war on Japan and Germany.

The country holds an unenviable position in world affairs - one in every three
terrorist attacks worldwide is directed against a US target.

Terrorists attack the United States for what it does, not what it stands for,
say experts.

Professor of criminology Dr Philip Bean of Loughborough University, said outlaws
shoot first and rarely, if ever, ask questions after.

"Terrorists don't care about retaliation," he said. "If I'm a terrorist, I don't
care what George Bush or America thinks. I want to see him hurt, I want to see
the damage. I'm not at all worried about the after-effects."

"We must remember one or two terrorists, of one particular mindset, can cause
more damage today than a small army did 40 years ago."

So large-scale terrorist attacks should come as no surprise, said Prof Bean.

"All members of extreme organisations have one abiding characteristic - they
have to show they are active, committed and prepared to do something about what
they see to be the problem, which in this case is capitalism, America and the
target is the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

"Terrorists draw attention to what they see to be the problem. It's the most
effective way of getting their point across."

Previous atrocities, such as the Lockerbie bombing met with rapid revenge
strikes from the US.

This time, however, the response could be different.

Dr Simon Bennett, a lecturer in disaster management at the University of
Leicester, says the attack may force President Bush back around the peace talk
table.

"This attack may help to pull the US back into Middle East politics," he said.
"They've withdrawn slightly since Bush was elected and the irony is that this
may now force America's hand and encourage Bush to become more involved."

Yesterday, Bush was talking tough. He promised a "full-scale investigation to
hunt down and find those folks who committed this act.''

Professor Nick Cull said America needed also to examine it's own role in world
affairs.

"They want power without responsibility," he said.

"Now they have found out that you cannot be ignorant of the world or the world
will come and get you."

Even the America's much-vaunted Star Wars programme - a satellite-based missile
defence system - is now coming under fresh scrutiny.

Dr Simon Bennett said: "Bush will be embarrassed. He's a patriot and the
question many Americans will want to know today is: What does this do to the
Star Wars programme?

"Star Wars would have done nothing to stop this attack and I think Bush will
need to re-examine the project's worth."

So what happens now, and how can you prevent copycat strikes? Aircraft safety
will be improved, says Dr Bennett.

"If an aircraft can be hijacked like that and flown into a prestige target,
further restrictions will have to be made," he said. "It's hard, if not
impossible to prepare for this kind of incident. If you've got people prepared
to commit suicide and their only concern is to meet their god, there's little
you can do to stop it."

"America is a free and open society - that is its strength, but its
corresponding weakness is that it's a target for repressive regimes. But those
people are never going to win."

The World Trade Centre in Lower Manhattan, New York city, consists of seven
buildings and a shopping concourse.

It is the world's biggest commercial complex, with many businesses, government
agencies, and international trade organisations.

Its twin 110-storey rectangular towers, one rising to 1,362ft (415 m) and the
other to 1,368ft (417 m), were completed in 1973 at a cost of $$750 million.

A massive terrorist car-bomb explosion damaged portions of the complex in 1993,
killing six people and causing more than $$300 million in damages.

In 1995, Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman and nine other militant Muslims (Sudanese,
Egyptian, American, and Jordanian citizens) were convicted of conspiracy and
other charges related to the bombing.

In 1998 the so-called mastermind, Ramzi Yousef, was also convicted of the
bombing and sentenced to life plus 240 years in prison.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2001 Leicester Mercury

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                          September 12, 2001 Wednesday

SCOTLAND & WALES HORRIFIED BY US TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: ARTICLE; Policy and Politics; News

LENGTH: 595  words



HIGHLIGHT: The Scottish executive has cancelled all ministerial engagements for
Wednesday as a result of the terrorist attacks...


The Scottish executive has cancelled all ministerial engagements for Wednesday
as a result of the terrorist attacks on US cities.First minister Henry McLeish
contacted the US consul in Edinburgh to express the sympathy of the Scottish
people.Mr McLeish said: 'This is a terrible act of wanton destruction by people
who have no regard whatsoever for the sanctity of life. This is a black day for
democracy. These horrific events will unite the world in the fight against
terrorism.'The prime minister has today spoken for the United Kingdom - and for
all Scots - when he expressed his horror at the terrible, shocking events in the
United States of America.'I have today written personally to the Liane Dorsey of
the American consul in Edinburgh to express on behalf of the Scottish executive
- and the Scottish people - our condolences.'Innocent people have lost their
lives today and our thoughts and our sympathy are with the people of America and
President Bush at this time.'The prime minister has spoken for all of us when he
said democrats that we must unite to oppose the evil of terrorism.'It is
difficult to find words to express your feelings in the face of an incident like
this.'The Scottish cabinet met today but it was a brief meeting and the thoughts
of all those around the table were with the people of America.'Earlier prime
minister Tony Blair told delegates at the TUC conference in Brighton:'There have
been most terrible, shocking events taking place in the United States of America
within the last hour or so, including two hijacked planes being flown
deliberately into the World Trade Centre.

I'm afraid we can only imagine the terror and the carnage there, and the many,
many innocent people that will have lost their lives.I know that you would want
to join with me in sending the deepest condolences to President Bush and to the
American people on behalf of the British people at these terrible events. This
mass terrorism is the new evil in our world today. It is perpetrated by fanatics
who are utterly indifferent to the sanctity of human life, and we the
democracies of this world are going to have to come together to fight it
together and eradicate this evil completely from our world.Delegates, I hope you
will understand that I don't believe it would be appropriate to carry on the
speech that I was going to give to you today. I know I have issued copies of the
speech, we will make sure that all delegates get copies of the speech; but I
think it inappropriate to give that speech now, here. I will obviously want to
carry on the discussions that we've had about the issues that concern us. I will
now return to London, and once again I thank you for your indulgence here. I am
very, very sorry that it has turned out the way that it has. But I know that, as
I say, you would want to join with me in offering our deepest sympathy to the
American people and our absolute shock and outrage at what has happened.'The
Foreign and Commonwealth Office have issued an emergency number for those
worried about friends or relatives in the United States: 0207 008 0000Statement
from the Welsh first minister on terrorist attacks in America:'Having only just
returned from the USA, I am appalled and revolted by this carnage inflicted on
innocent people by these barbaric acts of terrorism.'On behalf of the people of
Wales I want to send the president and people of America our deepest condolences
and sympathy. I am contacting the US consular office in Cardiff with the same
message.'Terrorism takes no prisoners but in the end wins no wars.'

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 2001 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

SUZY IN THE CITY : HOW THE MARKETS WERE LEFT IN TURMOIL;
 U.S. TERROR ATTACKS WIPE POUNDS 67BN OFF FTSE

BYLINE: Edited By Kevan Reilly

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 642 words


WHAT started as a day of recovery for the markets turned into a nightmare
yesterday as pounds 67billion was wiped off the UK index in just 150 minutes.

After news broke of the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the
FTSE 100 plunged 287.7 points, with fears that the London would be the next
terrorist target.

The Stock Exchange and Lloyd's of London were both evacuated, as were some
American banks, but trading continued electronically until the markets closed at
4: 30pm.

The day had started promisingly, with the FTSE up 90 points by mid-morning, and
as they returned from lunch dealers chatted optimistically to colleagues in the
World Trade Center, who had just arrived at work.

But then the phones went dead and the screens froze. And when they had stopped
staring in horror at the scenes on their TV screens, dealers began to sell.

Serious panic set in when the terrorists hit the Pentagon and the White House
was evacuated.

It was the worst day ever for the market, which closed at 4746.0 after a bigger
fall than it saw on Black Monday, October 20, 1987.

Then the market dropped 250.7 points.

This time, nearly six per cent of the value of Britain's biggest firms was wiped
out.

Just three shares finished ahead: BP, up 4.9 per cent to 592p, Shell, up 11.5p
to 543p, and arms manufacturer BAE Systems, up 14.5p at 325p.

The London Stock Exchange has pledged trading will continue and the FTSE is
expected to open at least 50 points down today.

Wall Street which, along with the Nasdaq, suspended trading as soon as the scale
of the disaster became clear, is expected to drop at least 600 points - if it
re-opens.

If it doesn't then the fall will be even bigger. No one is willing to guess how
bad. Freddie Tulloch of Financial Spreads said: "We have had an absolute
nightmare trying to work out what will happen."

But experts reckon the UK market - already reeling from fears over recession -
will recover from the terrorist attack. Lloyds TSB's chief economist Trevor
Williams said: "The fallout from this attack will not last too long.

"It is a bit of a kneejerk reaction but it's also traders being cautious in case
there are economic reactions that they are not aware off. Trading volumes are
likely to remain low for a few days as traders wait to see what happens.

"Damage to the US economy as a whole will not be that enormous, although New
York will really suffer.

"But there will be Government help."

British Airways and hotel giant Hilton were the biggest losers amid fears of
more terrorist attacks and soaring fuel prices.

BA dropped 21 per cent to 210p and Hilton lost 47.5p to 179p - but almost every
share suffered.

"People are linking this to the Middle East," one trader said.

"In this situation people are buying the oils and selling everything else,
especially stocks with a US exposure and the insurers and banks.

"One certainty is the oil price will be high so they have bought oil stocks.
Also there will be insurance claims so they have been sold off."

THE Association of British Insurers admits UK firms will have to help pay the
cost of the attacks.

"Our exposure will not be significant but British firms are likely to suffer in
other ways. It is too early to say what the implications are.

"Insurers are almost certain to increase terrorist insurance premiums for UK
firms after this as companies here could also be targets."

Oil prices surged, hitting $ 30 a barrel and forcing the London International
Petroleum Exchange to suspend trading because of the rush of business.

Gold prices also climbed, soaring $ 16 an ounce to $ 287 as investors bailed out
into safe assets.

And the dollar sank against all major currencies, losing two per cent to the
Euro and falling to a seven-month low against sterling.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Screen International

                          September 12, 2001 Wednesday

Global media industry reacts to terror attack

BYLINE: Adrien Gombeaud

SECTION: ARTICLE; Categories.Industry / Corporate

LENGTH: 789  words


Terrorist attacks in the US on Tuesday threw into sharp relief the relevance of
the entertainment industry. As the tragedy unfolded, US studios, cinemas and TV
networks shut down for the day. The Emmy TV awards were postponed and the Latin
Grammy awards cancelled. Even Walt Disney World in Florida and Disneyland were
closed.

At the Toronto International Film Festival, the normally busy industry and press
offices were scenes of confusion and concern as people from across the spectrum
of the industry sought to contact loved ones and colleagues in the stricken
cities. Rooms normally dedicated to press conferences were given over to
television coverage of the events. Many others gathered in the event's public
spaces and expressed their shock and sorrow.

In Los Angeles, Hollywood ground to a near standstill. Universal, Fox, Sony,
Paramount, MGM, Dreamworks and Warner Bros. all shut down on Tuesday, with
production halted on numerous films and TV shows. All city, state and federal
buildings in the city closed, with most non-essential staff sent home.

Meanwhile, AMC Theatres, Loews Cineplex Entertainment, Mann Theatres, Pacific
Theatres, Regal Cinemas and United Artists were some of the cinema chains that
closed their doors in New York and around the US. Most said they did so out of
respect for the tragedy. United Artists' Union Square cinema in Manhattan was
used as a safe-haven in the aftermath of the World Trade Center attacks.

US studios also moved quickly to delay openings of effects-heavy films such as
Warner Bros' Anrold Schwarzenegger starrer Collateral Damage. Due for an October
release, the film is the story of a man whose family is killed when a skyscraper
is rocked by a huge bomb.  Touchstone Pictures' Big Trouble, starring Tim Allen
and Rene Russo, has also been delayed. The film's plotline centres on a bomb in
a suitcase that is smuggled past airport security onto a plane out of the
Bahamas. Other films using New York as a background will also be affected. It is
understood that Sidewalks Of New York, starring Ed Burns and Heather Graham, has
postponed its opening which was due later this month.

Questions will also be asked of other high profile US films. The trailer for
highly anticipated Spiderman, for example, contained scenes of the mutant hero
spinning a web between the towers of the World Trade Center. The trailer has now
been moved from the film's official website.

The terrible events of the day had huge international repercussions. The UK came
to a near standstill, with television stations ripping up their planned
schedules to air news of the tragedy. Office workers in the City were evacuated,
while others up and down the country abandoned their work to watch the unfolding
events on their screens.

In Australia, the the World Airline Entertainment Association (WAEA) conference
and exhibition in Brisbane ground to a halt. Delegates who did choose to show up
spent much of the day in one of the main rooms glued to CNN. With many of the
guests from the US, organisers provided the services of a councillor as a
result.

As the scope of the tragedy became apparent in Toronto, the Festival cancelled
screenings and events scheduled for the balance of the day. However, later that
day, Festival Director Piers Handling announced the event would stay the course,
proceeding with the films, press conferences and Rogers Industry Centre events
as scheduled for Wednesday Sept. 12. The Festival runs until Sept. 16.

At first it seemed that logistical obstacles would prevent the Festival from
continuing, given the closures of Toronto's Pearson Airport and the US-Canada
border. Departing guests have been stranded in the city while arriving
filmmakers and, in some cases, their films have been kept out. But, according to
TIFF Press Office Director Gabrielle Free, enough of the prints are available to
justify continuing. Free said the Festival would increase security at its venues
where appropriate.

Free told Screen International that every effort is being made to reschedule the
28 public and 13 press and industry screenings that were cancelled on Tuesday.

The Festival arranged for a trauma response team to assist Festival guests and
staff while hotels welcomed back guests who had been turned back at the airport.
Most of downtown Toronto was closed by midday Tuesday, including the financial
district, the CBC Broadcast Centre and the CN Tower.

In a statement, the Festival commented: "We are devastated by the shocking
developments in the United States and extend our heartfelt support to all those
affected by this incomprehensible tragedy."

Due to shipping delays, this weeks edition of Screen International may not reach
US subscribers or news stands until the following week.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Screen International


                            Copyright 2001 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:06:29

