



Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:31:17
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 1, 2015 Thursday

Yemeni government denounces Ibb terrorist attack

LENGTH: 145 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Aden, 31 December - The government strongly denounced the terrorist bombing took
place in Ibb city Wednesday [31 December] and killed around 23 people and
injured other 48.

In it cabinet meeting held in Aden on Wednesday, the government listened t
clarification from interior minister on the criminal attack targeted people in
the Cultural Centre while celebrating the Prophet Muhammad's Birthday.

The cabinet noted that the security forces, which have started measures to
unearth the aftermaths of the terrorist attack, will ultimately reach the
perpetrators and those who stand behind them.

The government expressed condolences to families of the victims and injured
people and asserted to do its duty towards the injured.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 2025 gmt 31 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 1, 2015 Thursday 11:00 AM GMT

When it comes to surveillance, there is everything to play for;
Against a backdrop of hacks and terror attacks, it's possible that surveillance
powers will be further strengthened

BYLINE: James Ball

SECTION: COMMENT IS FREE

LENGTH: 415 words


Looking back at 2014 from the perspective of a surveillance reformer is a short
and dispiriting task: almost nothing good happened.

The UK passed "emergency" legislation, referred to as the Drip Act, expanding
mass surveillance powers in the wake of European court judgments. In the US,
modest reforms to domestic mass surveillance failed to pass Congress. Ireland
retrospectively made legal UK mass surveillance efforts related to the country,
while even Germany - one of the most outspoken nations on surveillance - has
challenged Der Spiegel's reporting of the tapping of Angela Merkel's phone.

On surveillance, 2014 was the year the administration struck back. But while the
Conservative party in the UK has made it clear it would like to further extend
surveillance powers, both sides of the Atlantic might find next year a closer
fight than they would think. Two key pieces of legislation authorising
surveillance are coming up for renewal. Most important is the Patriot Act, which
must be renewed by 1 June, or else go out of force - taking with it the NSA's
collection of US phone details.

In the UK, the major parties have pledged to re-examine the critical Ripa
legislation, which authorises most UK mass-surveillance programmes, after the
election - and have to renew the Drip legislation by the end of 2016. The other
key place to watch will be the courts: there are multiple challenges in UK
tribunals, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the
European court of justice, and several cases attempting to get the US supreme
court to make its first surveillance rulings since Edward Snowden's leaks.

The technological backdrop is similarly mixed: in the immediate wake of Snowden,
a flurry of new companies promising privacy arose, but there's not yet a
definitive app, while incumbents such as Tor have revealed several attacks and
security breaches (since fixed). Conversely, though, major players are starting
to regard privacy as a selling point: Google and others are encrypting ever more
of their traffic, and even enhancing privacy controls over which information the
search and social giants store.

So it's all to play for in the year ahead. Against a backdrop of high-profile
hacks and terror attacks in western cities, it's conceivable that surveillance
powers will be strengthened. But the post-Snowden reform movement still has
momentum, and there's every chance that documents from Snowden or some other
whistleblower could influence the debate in 2015.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 2, 2015 Friday

Sunni militia member, Shi'i teacher killed in Iran terror attack

LENGTH: 267 words


Text of report in English by Iranian news channel Press TV website on 2 January

An Iranian Sunni Basiji volunteer and a Shi'i teacher have been killed in a
terrorist attack in the southeastern province of Sistan and Baluchestan, police
say.

The terror attack happened in the city of Sarbaz Thursday [1 January] night,
said provincial police chief Brigadier General Hoseyn Rahimi.

"Last night, two masked motorcyclists carried out a terrorist attack in the city
of Sarbaz, killing two people," the police commander said on Friday [2 January].

He said that the first victim was a Sunni Basiji who was killed on his way back
home from shopping, adding that the second attack occurred when terrorists
opened fire on a Shi'i teacher some 200 meters from the site of the first
attack.

The gunmen fled the scene following the terror incident.

Rahimi said that the police, forces from the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps
(IRGC) as well as the Intelligence Ministry are working to identify the
perpetrators of the crime.

The Sistan-and-Baluchestan Province has been the scene of a number of terrorist
attacks in recent years.

In late November 2014, three Iranian security forces were shot dead by unknown
gunmen in the province.

Three Iranian police officers were also killed in early October last year when
they came under attack at night time by armed bandits while on a mission in the
provincial city of Saravan.

Another police officer was killed after an explosives-laden car taken to the
police station by terrorists went off hours after the first incident.

Source: Press TV website, Tehran, in English 0959 gmt 2 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                       January 2, 2015 Friday 3:03 AM GMT

Magherafelt pensioner's petrol bomb attack terror

BYLINE: By David Young

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 265 words


A pensioner has told of her terror after her house was damaged in a double
petrol bomb attack.

Police said the attack on the bungalow in the Leckagh Walk area of Magherafelt
took place at about 10.10pm on New Year's Eve - with only one of the devices
igniting.

A window and door of 72-year-old Roberta Wilson's home suffered extensive scorch
damage.

"I heard a bang and I went out. All I saw was the flames up the back window. It
was pitch black. I started panicking," she said. "I opened the door and the
thing fell on the ground and went out."

Although not physically injured, Mrs Wilson was left shocked and upset.

It's not the first time the pensioner, who has lived in the bungalow for six
years, has been targeted by criminals.

Her car has been attacked several times, including an incident shortly before
Christmas when windows were smashed.

She said she had no idea why her property was being attacked - but says she
intends to stay.

She said: "I don't know why they are doing it on me. Why should I move for them,
let them put me out of my own home?"

Magherafelt DUP councillor Elizabeth Forde said the pensioner was "devastated".

"The woman last night, when I went to see, her was hysterical.

"We don't know why this has taken place but we have left it with the police to
do a full investigation."

Mid Ulster DUP MLA Ian McCrea condemned those responsible after he visited Mrs
Wilson.

He said: "The thugs responsible for this disgusting attack have nothing to offer
our society."

He said he was also concerned about the DRD policy of turning off street lights
to the rear of houses in the estate.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       January 2, 2015 Friday 6:05 PM GMT

December 31: 20 years ago The Queen feared a terror attack on the royal family

BYLINE: Daily Express

LENGTH: 224 words


December 31: We look back at the last 100 years, 50 years and 25 years and bring
you what happened on this day in history

GETTY

Trafalgar Square was the scene of a 'battleground' in 1964

1914 - It is impossible to say how many aeroplanes the Germans have lost in
combat, but Allied forces are apparently capturing at least one a week

1939 - Londoners brave a war-time black-out from 11pm in a bid to celebrate the
New Year, with St Paul's Cathedral hosting its traditional Hogmanay meeting

1964 - Trafalgar Square becomes a 'battleground' between police and revellers
after 25,000 people pack the area leading to many casualties

1989 - Families earning more than £18,000 could see their incomes slashed by
thousands if Labour gain power under Opposition proposals for new tax increases

2004 - The Queen feared that IRA terrorists were planning to attack the Royal
family following a failed kidnap attempt against Princess Anne, according to
newly-released Government papers

2009 - BBC director-general Mark Thompson defends the six-figure pay packets of
his managers saying the salaries are necessary to stop them defecting to the
private sector

Related articles December 15: 10 years ago 77 per cent were against Charles's
marriage to Camilla December 16: On this day in history December 22: On this day
in history December 23: On this day in history

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       January 2, 2015 Friday 1:53 AM GMT

Terror trial of Brit accused of plotting attack on UK and U.S. to consider
documents seized from Bin Laden's Pakistan hideout

BYLINE: HARRIET SIME FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 408 words



     ·    Abid Naseer will go on trial next month at Brooklyn Federal Court
     ·    He is accused of planning terror attacks on targets in the U.S. and UK


     ·    Federal prosecutors will use evidence recovered from the Bin Laden
          raid


The trial of British a man who allegedly planned terrorist attacks on UK and
American targets is to consider documents seized from the hideout of Osama bin
Laden.

Abid Naseer, 28, is to go on trial next month accused of plotting with other Al
Qaeda operatives to blow up subway lines in Manhattan during rush hour around
the eighth anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks.

US officials plan to use the secret documents which were seized when the
terrorist leader was shot dead after US Navy Seals stormed his compound in
Pakistan in 2011, as part of prosecution evidence.

Naseer, from Manchester, is also facing charges in the US related to terror
attacks on shoppers at the Trafford and Arndale centres in Manchester in 2009,
and a further plot against trargets in Norway.

His alleged planned attack in Manchester was referred to in coded messages
intercepted by MI5 as 'the wedding' and was to have taken place when the stores
were at their busiest.

Pakistani national Naseer was arrested with 12 others in April 2009 after UK
police uncovered the alleged plot.

But all were released without charge because of lack of evidence.

Naseer was extradited to the US in January 2013 following a two-year legal fight
after officials linked him to three men suspected of the subway bombing plot.

A British judge ruled that he could not be sent back to Pakistan as he might
face torture but he would get a fair trial in the US.

Details of the bin Laden documents, which were seized from his hideout in
Abbottabad, Pakistan, were revealed during a pre-trial hearing at Brooklyn
federal court.

It will the first time any material from the dead terror leader's hideout have
been used in a US terror trial.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Zainab Ahmad told a court the US Government plan to
declassify the documents for use in the trial.

Naseer, who is defending himself, refused to study the Bin Laden document on
Wednesday when given the opportunity.

US authorities allege Medunjanin and his former high school friends Najibullah
Zazi and Zarein Ahmedzay travelled to Pakistan in 2008 to seek terror training
from Al Qaeda.

Zazi and Ahmeddzay have pleaded guilty and awaiting sentencing and Menunjanin is
serving a life sentence.

Naseer faces life if found guilty.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 3, 2015 Saturday

DRCongo military, police deploy in east to counter terrorist New Year attacks

LENGTH: 241 words


Text of report by DRCongo's UN-sponsored Radio Okapi on 31 December

[Presenter] A heavy deployment was on the morning of Wednesday 31 December made
by the DRCongo's national police and Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of
Congo [FARDC] in about 20 hot spots of Beni territory, Nord Kivu Province
[eastern DRCongo]. The urban inspector of police in Beni, Col Flamand Baliwa
Ngoy, said the deployment aimed to prevent any possible terrorist attacks during
the New Year celebration. [Baliwa] The town was today divided into 20 sectors.

The 20 hot spots will be secured until 48 hours after the celebrations. Those
sectors are targeted by the enemy which may stage terrorist attacks. Col Flamand
Baliwa Ngoy warned trouble makers in Beni and urged the people to be vigilant.

[Baliwa] Policemen and soldiers are not here to disturb or harass the people.
They are just here to protect them [the people]. We are sure that there are
people who always want to challenge the police but no one is above the law. He
said Beni town needs strong institutions and no strong men.

[Baliwa] Whoever will attempt to disrupt public order will be apprehended by the
police. That is why we call on the people to alert us whenever there is a
suspect anywhere because the people in the region must celebrate in peace.

[Presenter] Alleged ADF NALU rebels killed 200 civilians in Beni between October
and November.

Source: Radio Okapi (Goma), Goma, in French 2000 gmt 31 Dec 14

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 3, 2015 Saturday 12:29 AM GMT

'Mumbai-like terror attack' averted as coast guards intercept Pakistani vessel
off Gujarat coast

BYLINE: MAIL TODAY BUREAU and JUGAL R. PUROHIT

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 1391 words


As the nation was preoccupied with New Year festivities, a possible re-run of
26/11 was averted when a suspicious fishing boat went up in flames some 365
kilometres from Porbandar in Gujarat after being signalled to stop for
inspection by a Coast Guard patrol vessel.

The successful operation was made possible by particularly precise intelligence
input, which stood in contrast to many previous occasions where intelligence
alerts have been vague, making it difficult for security agencies to carry out
necessary follow-up actions.

The rogue fishing boat was said to be sailing from Keti Bandar around 100km
south of Karachi.

The specific intelligence input about the movement of the suspicious boat was
passed on to the coast guards who later launched the operation to intercept the
vessel on the morning of December 31.

The coast guard's Dornier surveillance aircraft kept a watch on the movement of
the boat since 11.00am.

Two more aircraft took off subsequently and trailed the boat for the entire day.



The fishing boat was finally intercepted after around 12 hours since first being
spotted by patrol ship Raj Ratan close to the invisible international maritime
boundary between India and Pakistan, which is around 200 nautical miles south
west of Porbandar.

The intercepts gathered by National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO) were
the basis of the operation.

There was input about the delivery of an "expensive cargo" in the intercepts.
Yet another communication talked about some money being paid for the cargo.

WARNING SHOT

The coast guard ship first fired a warning shot signaling the crew of the boat
to stop. Instead, the boat took on speed leading to a chase that went on for an
hour.

The crew of the coast guard ship spotted four men in the boat who refused to
obey their instruction and reportedly went below the deck and set the boat on
fire.

 The board was soon up in thick flames, said officials, pointing to the presence
of explosives.

However, a source in the coast guard revealed that contrary to what the Ministry
of Defence has claimed in its official statement, the four men who were spotted
onboard the vessel plunged into the waters moments before the vessel was set
ablaze.

Not only that, NTRO has specifically asked the coast guards to remain on standby
'for more actionable intelligence' indicating that the operation may not be
over.

Meanwhile, Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar said a "possible danger" has been
averted following the interception of a "rogue" boat. Parrikar refrained from
pointing any direct finger on Pakistan or terming the fishing vessel as a
"terror" boat.

"Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar has complimented the Indian Coast Guard and
those involved in the operation for intercepting the rogue vessel off the coast
of Gujarat, in a timely and precise manner, thereby, averting a possible
danger," said a statement released by the defence ministry.

Coast Guard officials claimed that that it was the unusually large size of the
rogue fishing boat that first drew their attention.

The second abnormality was the fact that fishing boats do not operate in this
area. The coast guard has dispatched another ship from Porbandar to carry out a
search operation.

There was no trace of any survivors, the coast guard claimed, as the incident
took place on a dark and windy night.

The actions of the crew were also suspicious right from the beginning, said
officials.

They were asked to switch on the lights as they were navigating in the dark. It
moved away quickly when the coast guard vessel fired warning shots.

All chances of gathering valuable evidence, however, were up in flames as the
boat sank on the spot.

The government claimed that maritime security agencies were maintaining a
careful watch in maritime and coast areas over the last couple of months due to
several intelligence inputs on threats from the sea.

There has been a considerable improvement in maritime surveillance apparatus
with coastal radar relaying real time information on the activities in sea to
take counter measures.

The security agencies were already in a state of high alert around the visit by
U.S. President Barak Obama.

Officials said that despite an improved maritime surveillance network, it was
possible for "rogue" boats to break in. They can be checked only with the help
of specific inputs like the current one.

'Men jumped off boat on fire'

The episode on the intervening night of December 31-January 1, where a boat
crossed the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL) off Gujarat onto the
Indian side and sank after being challenged by the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) may
not be over on two accounts.

A top officer of the force revealed that contrary to what the Ministry of
Defence (MoD) has claimed in its official statement, the four men who were
spotted onboard the vessel jumped into the waters moments before the vessel was
set ablaze.

This scenario which has been kept under wraps, has forced the ICG to maintain
presence.

Not only that, the National Technological Research Organisation (NTRO) agency
which is credited with getting the lead about this vessel has specifically asked
the ICG to remain standby 'for more actionable intelligence' indicating that the
operation may not be over.

Speaking on the condition of anonymity, a senior officer said, "Our ship,
Inshore Patrol Vessel Rajratan, which was tailing the vessel has reported seen
the men jump into the sea almost simultaneously with the vessel being set
ablaze." This has triggered a rush to nab 'even one of them alive if possible'.

Deputy Director General of ICG K Nautiyal confirmed this development and said,
"We are yet to connect all the dots in this case. So we are to find what this
vessel was to do and till that time, our operation will continue."

The defence ministry has also categorically stated that the boat was carrying
explosives and was to conduct 'illicit transaction in Arabian sea'.

Rogue Pakistan boat puts focus on security

A "rogue" boat entering into the Indian maritime boundary has brought the focus
on coastal security network that is undergoing major up-gradation after the
26/11 Mumbai attacks.

In the latest case where the Coast Guard patrol vessel managed to intercept a
suspicious vessel, it was the specific intelligence input that helped in
tracking the boat.

SECURITY DOMAIN

One of the highlights of the new maritime security domain is to put in place the
Information Management and Analysis Centre (IMAC) which was commissioned by
Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar in Gurgaon last year.

It is the single point agency interlinking the coast radar chain that was formed
after the Mumbai attacks. The officials explained that IMAC works on filtering
out regular fishing boats operating in the Indian waters from the rogue vessels.



The way it has been planned, IMAC will become the backbone of the national
maritime domain awareness in the coming months.

It has to be complemented with other measures like installing transponders on
all the fishing boats operating in the Indian waters and identifying every
fisherman who ventures out in the sea.

The IMAC links 20 naval and 31 Coast Guard station, including the joint
operation centres. It has 51 nodes across the coastline and also in the Andaman
and Nicobar island.

There are seven major nodes of maritime security in Delhi, Gandhinagar, Mumbai,
Kochi, Chennai, Vishakhapatnam and Port Blair. The Centre also has a
comprehensive database of world registers of shipping for the analysis of
traffic.

The officials said that the nerve centre of maritime security domain is a work
in progress. But it has reached a stage where the high-technology institution is
all set to take off to become a potent tool in checking dangers from the sea.

The technological advancements are being backed by an increase in the coastal
surveillance patrols by navy and the coast guards ships.

CRUCIAL COAST

The navy carries out an extensive defence of Gujarat exercise as part of this
effort. It is a mobilisation of all the naval resources under western command.

The Indian Air Force and the Coast Guard also take part in the exercise.

The Gujarat coast is crucial for the country's economy as it has a number of key
oil installations. The officials admit that maritime security continues to be a
major challenge despite some urgent measures and procurement of latest assets.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 3, 2015 Saturday 3:58 PM GMT

Man shouting "God is Great" tries to strangle French police officer;
The incident in Metz raised fears of "lone wolf" attacks by Islamist terrorists

BYLINE: By Rory Mulholland Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 225 words


A man has tried to strangle a police officer while shouting "Allahu Akbar" (God
is great), the latest in a spate of attacks in France that have heightened fears
of terrorism.

The latest assault took place in the eastern city of Metz on Friday when a man
arrested for bag-snatching asked the officer to bring him a glass of water.

When the policeman opened his cell door, the 23-year-old lunged at him and tried
to throttle him while shouting "Allahu Akbar".

Other police officers saw the events on the video surveillance system and rushed
to save their colleague, who had been thrown to the ground. His assailant was
said to have a history of psychiatric problems.

"The doctor who treated him (the officer) said that just a few seconds more and
it would have been too late," Michael Philippart of the SGP FO police union told
L'Est Républicain, a newspaper.

Manuel Valls, the prime minister, ordered the deployment of up to 300 extra
"military forces" around the country just before Christmas after three similar
attacks in three days left one dead and scores injured.

While officials insisted the incidents were unrelated, they raised fears of
"lone wolf" attacks by Islamist terrorists.

The government has faced criticism for supposedly playing down the threat, at a
time when at least 1,000 French nationals are thought be involved in jihad in
Syria and Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 5, 2015 Monday

Greek police say recaptured terrorist was planning big attack

LENGTH: 444 words


Text of report in English by government-affiliated Greek news agency ANA-MPA
website

[Unattributed report: "Recaptured Terrorist Christodoulos Xiros Was Planning a
Big Attack, Says Police]

Heavy weaponry was found in the house which had been rented by the recaptured
convicted terrorist Christodoulos Xiros with forged documents in Anavyssos,
suggesting he was planning a big terrorist attack some time soon, police said on
Sunday [4 January].

During the search in the house, police discovered 6 or 7 Kalashnikov rifles, one
of which has a laser diopter, a container with a quantity of explosives, parts
of a rocket and fuses. All findings are being examined in police labs.

According to Xiros's lawyer, Frangiskos Rangoussis, the convict knew he was
being watched and was about to disappear again. Talking to reporters after
visiting his client, Rangoussis also said Xiros didn't want to be arrested at
night because he didn't want to exchange fire with policemen and that he didn't
plan to use the weapon he was carrying when captured.

He also said he doesn't accept responsibility for any of the crimes he is being
connected to while he was on the run and that he won't cooperate with the
investigator because his aim was to avoid arrest.

"All this time he lived under the stranglehold of the police, as he had already
realized himself. This didn't give him the opportunity to cooperate with anyone
or any opportunity for anything," Rangoussis said, adding that the heavy
weaponry found in the house was acquired by Xiros and that he takes full
responsibility for it.

Rangoussis also read a statement by the former fugitive in which he claimed he
will not cooperate with institutions "that serve occupation forces and a
government of collaborators" adding that the "revolution" will continue despite
the blow he received.

Xiros was arrested on Saturday evening in Anavyssos, a coastal town in the
southern tip of Attica. When he was picked up by police he was armed but made no
attempt to resist. He was riding a bicycle near the house he had been renting,
the head of police said during a press conference after the arrest. To disguise
his appearance, Xiros had grown a beard and dyed his hair blonde.

He was serving multiple life terms in Korydallos prison for crimes related to
his membership in the terrorist group November 17, until he went missing about a
year ago, when he failed to return to prison after being granted furlough.

He is currently being held and questioned at the antiterrorism unit's offices
and his lawyer said he will be sent to court in the afternoon.

Source: Athens News Agency-Macedonian Press Agency website, Athens, in English
1423 gmt 4 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       January 5, 2015 Monday 3:45 PM GMT

Saudi Arabia suicide bombing puts country on alert for jihadi attacks;
'Terrorist' killing of two soldiers rocks country amid uncertainty over health
of King Abdullah, said to have pneumonia

BYLINE: Ian Black, Middle East editor

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 479 words


Saudi Arabia is on alert for jihadi attacks after a general and another soldier
were killed by a suicide bomber on the country's border with Iraq.

The interior ministry in Riyadh blamed "terrorist elements" for the early
morning incident on Monday but did not name any group, though it is thought
likely to be Islamic State (Isis), which controls large areas of neighbouring
Iraq as well as Syria.

The ministry said in a statement that a border patrol at al-Suwaif, near the
city of Arar, was fired on. Border guards returned fire and killed two of four
attackers. But during attempts to persuade another two to surrender, one
attacker detonated an explosive belt and killed himself and two of the border
guards - one of whom was the commander of northern border forces, General Oudah
al-Belawi.

The ministry said that Saudi security forces were "determined to thwart ...
plots to undermine the security and stability of the homeland". It referred to
the attackers as "Kharijites", a derogatory term for apostates.

The attack came amid uncertainty in Riyadh over news that King Abdullah, who is
thought to be 91, has been hospitalised with pneumonia. The next in line to the
throne, Crown Prince Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, is in his late 70s and also
said to be in poor health.

On Sunday, an Iraqi spokesman said Iraqi forces had driven off an Isis attack on
a police post near the Saudi border. It was unclear if the two incidents were
linked.

Saudi Arabia is one of five Arab partners in the US-led coalition fighting Isis
and has been singled out for attacks by the Isis leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.

The country boosted security on its 500-mile border with Iraq in July, deploying
thousands of troops to back up border guards after the jihadis captured Mosul,
seized swaths of territory including Anbar province and announced a "caliphate"
straddling the border with Syria.

In November, fears of a jihadi "blowback" were fanned by a deadly sectarian
attack at al-Ahsa, in the kingdom's eastern province, that killed five people on
the Shia religious holiday of Ashura. Fifteen people, all Saudi nationals, were
arrested.

Saudi Arabia has been widely blamed for the rise of Isis by funding armed
Islamist groups fighting to overthrow Syria's president, Bashar al-Assad, while
several thousand of its nationals have fought in Syria and Iraq, many encouraged
by extremist clerics. In recent months, however, it has imposed stricter
controls and criminalised fighting abroad while also announcing scores of
arrests. It flatly rejects accusations that it supports terrorism.

Salman offered assurances at a cabinet meeting on Monday about the health of the
king, said the state news agency SPA. The royal court said on 2 January that
King Abdullah was suffering from pneumonia and temporarily needed a breathing
aid. The procedure was successful and his condition was now stable, it said.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       January 5, 2015 Monday 1:31 AM GMT

'How can you say it was a terrorist attack?' Congress and BJP lock horns over
'terror boat' claims

BYLINE: MAIL TODAY BUREAU

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 271 words


Last week's 'terror boat' controversy has given the Congress and the BJP a fresh
issue to lock horns over.

While the principal Opposition party has asked the government to "come clean" on
the incident, the ruling party has accused it of "playing politics over terror"
and "virtually playing into the hands of Pakistan".

"A new low in Indian politics has been touched and none other than Congress is
responsible for this new low. Congress has touched an abysmal low as far as
politics is concerned," BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said a day after the
Congress questioned the party's claim on the New Year's Eve face-off.

Patra also attached '#CongresssupportsPakistan' to related tweets.

In a midnight operation off the coast of Gujarat, a Pakistani fishing boat said
to be carrying explosives was intercepted by the Indian Coast Guard before it
exploded and sank with four crew members on board.

Some quarters have hailed the incident as India's victory in avoiding another
26/11-like terror strike.

However, there has been no official confirmation of this theory, with the
defence ministry merely stating that the boat from Keti Bunder near Karachi was
planning some illicit transaction in the Arabian Sea.

On Saturday, Congress spokesperson Ajoy Kumar had said: "How can you say that a
terrorist attack was prevented? How did they (government) come to the conclusion
that it was a terrorist boat? Nothing has been explained. Which organisation was
behind it?"

Patra countered saying India only celebrated a happy new year because the Coast
Guard and intelligence agencies could successfully abort a probable terrorist
attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       January 5, 2015 Monday 1:04 AM GMT

Congress attacks Badals over early release of 'terrorist' Pinky

BYLINE: MANJEET SEHGAL

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 347 words


The Parkash Singh Badal-led Punjab government came under attack from the
Opposition on Sunday for demanding the premature release of convicted terrorists
and ignoring the cause of 96 Sikh prisoners who are languishing in jails despite
having completed their sentence.

"Badal duo should explain what stops them from releasing 96 Sikh prisoners
languishing in Punjab jails, if they can prematurely release
terrorist-turned-police officer Gurmeet, alias Pinky," Congress spokesperson
Sukhpal Singh Khaira said.

Khaira revealed that the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee had released a
list of 119 Sikh prisoners languishing in different jails after the end of their
sentences.

"Congress dares the Badal duo to explain how and why Pinky was prematurely
released? Pinky had been sentenced to life for the murder of an innocent boy.
The said remittance of sentence to Pinky was granted by the Badal Cabinet on the
recommendations of DGP Punjab Sumedh Saini," Khaira alleged.

It is worth mentioning here that the grave issue of Sikh prisoners languishing
in jail after completion of their sentence has been taken up by Bhai Gurbaksh
Singh, who has entered into 52nd day of his fast unto death, seeking their
release.

During a similar fast kept by him last year at Gurdwara Amb Sahib Mohali, the
Jathedar Akal Takht had publicly promised to take up the issue with the Badal
government. However, no tangible solution was found, forcing Bhai Gurbaksh Singh
to resort to his present fast unto death.

This time too, the Jathedar Akal Takht Sahib and the SGPC president have
promised to ensure the release of Sikh prisoners by taking up the matter.

"Unfortunately the Badal duo have refused to acknowledge the appeals of not only
Bhai Gurbaksh Singh but also Akal Takht chief Giani Gurbachan Singh and SGPC
president Avtar Singh Makkar," Khaira said.

The Congress spokesperson said the callous and non-serious attitude of the Badal
duo over this serious matter clearly exposes their double standards, as they
never leave a stone unturned to whip up Sikh sentiments for their political
gains.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                      January 5, 2015 Monday 10:46 AM GMT

Fugitive Greek Terrorist 'Planned Jail Attack'

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 245 words



HIGHLIGHT: A fugitive member of Greece's Marxist guerrilla group November 17,
which murdered a number of politicians, businessmen and diplomats, has been
recaptured after a year on the run.


  The Greek authorities say Christodoulos Xiros had been planning an armed
attack on a maximum security prison to free other convicted militants when he
was arrested.

A police spokesman said officers searching a safe house used by Xiros discovered
a cache of weapons including Kalashnikov rifles, rocket propelled grenades and
explosives.

They also found extensive plans for an assault on Korydallos prison in a suburb
of western Athens.

Xiros, 56, was serving six life terms for his role in the violent far-left
terror group which killed 23 people, including Greek politicians and British,
American and Turkish diplomats and military officials, between 1975 and 2000.

The CIA's Athens station chief, Richard Welch, was among its victims.

Xiros disappeared while on prison leave on 7 January, 2014, and weeks later
released a video criticising the handling of Greece's financial crisis,
threatening to "fire the guerrilla shotgun against those who stole our life and
sold our dreams".

Police recaptured Xiros as he rode a bike, armed with a loaded pistol, in a
southern suburb of the Greek capital. He surrendered without a fight.

Public Safety Minister Vassilis Kikilias said: "Greek police prevented a major
attack against the heart of the Greek prison system."

After appearing before a prosecutor, Xiros' lawyer issued a statement saying his
client felt as "collaborators of the system", the authorities were "unqualified
to take his plea".

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       January 5, 2015 Monday 9:38 AM GMT

Boston Marathon bombing trial Dzhokhar Tsarnaev of starts today: here's what you
need to know;
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev faces a potential death sentence for the 2013 terrorist attack
- but the jury selection alone could take one month

BYLINE: By Raf Sanchez Boston

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 649 words


The trial of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the only surviving suspect of the Boston
Marathon bombing, begins today. Here's what you need to know:

The young defendant

Tsarnaev is 21 years old and was just 19 at the time of the bombing in April
2013. He is a US citizen who was born in Kyrgyzstan but came to America at the
age of eight as a refugee.

Friends remember him as an intelligent and likeable young man who was well
integrated in the multicultural Boston area. But prosecutors allege that he
embraced radical Islam under the guidance of his older brother, Tamerlan.

On April 15, 2013 the brothers allegedly detonated a pair of bombs at the finish
line of the Boston Marathon, killing three people and injuring around 260
others. Days later they allegedly shot dead a university police officer and
engaged in a shootout with the police.

Tamerlan was killed in the gunfire but Dzhokhar escaped and was later found
hiding in a boat where he had scrawled: "Stop killing our innocent people and we
will stop."

The US government is seeking the death penalty

Tsarnaev faces 30 terrorism charges and prosecutors have asked for the death
penalty if he is convicted. A jury would first need to vote to convict him and
then vote a second time on whether to impose the death penalty.

His lawyers have offered to have him plead guilty if prosecutors drop their
demand for the death sentence but so far the US government has refused to make a
deal.

Tsarnaev's dead brother will loom large

Tamerlan Tsarnaev will not be sitting in the courtroom but the defendant's dead
older brother will be mentioned often. Dzhokhar's lawyers will say that Tamerlan
was the mastermind of the bombing plot and that his younger brother was swept
along with him.

Finding a jury will be difficult

Although the trial starts today it will be weeks before the prosecution and
defence actually begin making their cases. The first step is to find 12 men and
women who can sit on the jury and be trusted to give an impartial verdict.

Around 1,200 potential jurors will report to the court today and the judge and
lawyers will begin the process of whittling them down to just a dozen. Anyone
with a close connection to someone caught up in the bombing will be ruled out,
as will anyone who says they would never to vote to impose the death penalty.

Jury selection is expected to take around a month and the overall trial is
expected to take around four months.

Tsarnaev's lawyer

Tsarnaev is being defended by Judy Clarke, a specialist in high-profile death
penalty cases. She previously defended the Unabomber, a recluse who engaged in a
two-decade bombing campaign across the US, and a man who in 2011 shot
Congresswoman Gabby Giffords and killed six other people.

Ms Clarke has tried to delay the trial and have it moved outside of Boston,
arguing that it will be impossible to assemble an impartial jury so close to the
scene of the crime. Both of her efforts have been denied.

The victims

While the trial is focused on the alleged bomber, the city of Boston will
continue to remember the victims.

Krystle Campbell, 29, was a restaurant manager who went to the finish line every
year to cheer on the runners.

Lingzi Lu, 23, was a university student from China who had come to the US to
study at Boston University.

Martin Richards, 8, was at the finish line with his family when the bombs went
off. His younger sister lost her leg while his mother was blinded in one eye.

Sean Collier, was a 26-year-old police officer at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology (MIT) who took swing dance classes with the students. He was shot
dead, allegedly by the Tsarnaev brothers, several days after the bombing.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       January 5, 2015 Monday 8:00 AM GMT

The Boston Marathon bombing trial starts today: here's what you need to know;
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev faces a potential death sentence for the 2013 terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Raf Sanchez Boston

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 704 words


The trial of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the only surviving suspect of the Boston
Marathon bombing, begins today. Here's what you need to know:

The young defendant

Tsarnaev is 21 years old and was just 19 at the time of the bombing in April
2013. He is a US citizen who was born in Kyrgyzstan but came to America at the
age of eight as a refugee.

Friends remember him as an intelligent and likeable young man who was well
integrated in the multicultural Boston area. But prosecutors allege that he
embraced radical Islam under the guidance of his older brother, Tamerlan.

On April 15, 2013 the brothers allegedly detonated a pair of bombs at the finish
line of the Boston Marathon, killing three people and injuring around 260
others. Days later they allegedly shot dead a university police officer and
engaged in a shootout with the police.

Tamerlan was killed in the gunfire but Dzhokhar escaped and was later found
hiding in a boat where he had scrawled: "Stop killing our innocent people and we
will stop."

The US government is seeking the death penalty

Tsarnaev faces 30 terrorism charges and prosecutors have asked for the death
penalty if he is convicted. A jury would first need to vote to convict him and
then vote a second time on whether to impose the death penalty.

His lawyers have offered to have him plead guilty if prosecutors drop their
demand for the death sentence but so far the US government has refused to make a
deal.

The state of Massachusetts does not have the death penalty so if he is sentenced
to die Tsarnaev would likely be taken to a federal prison in Indiana. Executions
carried out by the US government (as opposed to individual states) are extremely
rare and there would be years of appeal hearings before any sentence is carried
out."

Tsarnaev's dead brother will loom large

Tamerlan Tsarnaev will not be sitting in the courtroom but the defendant's dead
older brother will be mentioned often. Dzhokhar's lawyers will say that Tamerlan
was the mastermind of the bombing plot and that his younger brother was swept
along with him.

Finding a jury will be difficult

Although the trial starts today it will be weeks before the prosecution and
defence actually begin making their cases. The first step is to find 12 men and
women who can sit on the jury and be trusted to give an impartial verdict.

Around 1,200 potential jurors will report to the court today and the judge and
lawyers will begin the process of whittling them down to just a dozen. Anyone
with a close connection to someone caught up in the bombing will be ruled out,
as will anyone who says they would never to vote to impose the death penalty.

Jury selection is expected to take around a month and the overall trial is
expected to take around four months.

Tsarnaev's lawyer

Tsarnaev is being defended by Judy Clarke, a specialist in high-profile death
penalty cases. She previously defended the Unabomber, a recluse who engaged in a
two-decade bombing campaign across the US, and a man who in 2011 shot
Congresswoman Gabby Giffords and killed six other people.

Ms Clarke has tried to delay the trial and have it moved outside of Boston,
arguing that it will be impossible to assemble an impartial jury so close to the
scene of the crime. Both of her efforts have been denied.

The victims

While the trial is focused on the alleged bomber, the city of Boston will
continue to remember the victims.

Krystle Campbell, 29, was a restaurant manager who went to the finish line every
year to cheer on the runners.

Lingzi Lu, 23, was a university student from China who had come to the US to
study at Boston University.

Martin Richards, 8, was at the finish line with his family when the bombs went
off. His younger sister lost her leg while his mother was blinded in one eye.

Sean Collier, was a 26-year-old police officer at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology (MIT) who took swing dance classes with the students. He was shot
dead, allegedly by the Tsarnaev brothers, several days after the bombing.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 6, 2015 Tuesday

Kuwait condemns terrorist attack in northern Saudi Arabia

LENGTH: 169 words


Text of report in English by Kuwaiti government-owned news agency Kuna website

Kuwait, Jan 6 (KUNA) - The State of Kuwait condemned Tuesday [6 January] the
terrorist attack that took place in northern Saudi Arabia yesterday, killing
three border guards and injury two others.

"This terrorist cowardly attack on the kingdom is considered an aggression on
all the GCC countries, but it won't undermine the security of the kingdom and
other GCC countries or even their resolve to fight and defeat terrorism as part
of the efforts of brotherly and friendly countries," a source at the Foreign
Ministry said here on Tuesday.

The source reflected Kuwait's utter dismay over the terrorist attack and
affirmed that the Kuwaiti people and leadership will support Saudi Arabia's
right in protecting its lands against threats. The source expressed condolences
towards the families of the deceased guards and wished for the swift recovery of
those injured in the attack.

Source: Kuna news agency website, Kuwait, in English 6 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 6, 2015 Tuesday 12:44 PM GMT

Australians warned to be on high alert if travelling to Indonesia after
government receives information indicating terrorists may be planning attacks in
the country

BYLINE: LUCY THACKRAY FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 617 words



     ·    Australians are being advised to be 'highly cautious' in Indonesia
     ·    There is a high risk of a terrorist attack in the country, according
          to DFAT
     ·    Government continues to receive information about planned attacks
     ·    Foreign Minister Julie Bishop says intelligence agencies and law
          enforcement agencies are being prepared with funding and personnel
     ·    The alarm was first raised after the US Government was warned about
          threats against US-associated hotels and banks in Surabaya in East
          Java
     ·    45 Australians were killed in the 2002 Bali Bombings and another 88
          Australians in the 2005 Bali bombings


Australians travelling to Indonesia have been advised to exercise a high degree
of caution after Foreign Minister Julie Bishop confirmed she has received
information about planned acts of terror.

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade have issued a warning to Australians
to exercise a high degree of caution if travelling Indonesia, including popular
tourist spot Bali.

The Australian Government says it is receiving information which indicates that
terrorists may be planning attacks in Indonesia, which could take place at any
time.

Scroll down for video

Julie Bishop confirmed that the Government is working 'very closely' with
Indonesian security, intelligence and law enforcement agencies and are preparing
for the worst.

The alarm was first raised after the US Government was warned about threats
against US-associated hotels and banks in Surabaya in East Java.

'Australia is monitoring this situation very closely,' Bishop said at a press
conference, confirming that DFAT is in partnership with Indonesian security,
intelligence and law enforcement agencies.

Ms Bishop emphasised that the risk is very real and Australians must act
cautiously when travelling overseas, as we have already experienced 'incidents
in the past where Australians were killed'.

She used the example of the tragic deaths of 45 Australians in the 2002 Bali
Bombings and 88 Australians in the 2005 Bali bombings as stark reminders that
'the threat of terror activity anywhere in the world remains.'

'That is why we count terrorism as our major national security threat,' said Ms
Bishop.

It is a major priority for the government to prepare adequately to prevent or
react to potential terror attacks, 'to keep Australians safe here and overseas'.

'We're taking steps to make sure our intelligence agencies and our law
enforcement agencies are well-resourced... (and) have the funding and personnel
they require.'

The smart traveller warning for Indonesia advises that there are known terrorist
groups which remain active throughout Indonesia, despite police disruptions.

'Police continue to conduct operations against these groups and have stated
publicly that terrorist suspects remaining at large may seek to attack Western
targets.'

The Foreign Minister advised Australians to follow all advice given by the
Australia Government by paying close attention to Smart Traveller updates.

'Of course in all these situations, people should be very aware of the fact that
they are in another country, they're subject to the laws of another country,' Ms
Bishop added.

'And if you can't afford to travel to Bali with travel insurance, then perhaps
you should rethink your travel.'

The US government on Sunday warned of a potential threat against US-associated
hotels and banks in Surabaya.

'You should exercise particular caution around locations that have a low level
of protective security and avoid places known to be possible terrorist targets,'
the department says in its latest travel advice.

The advice also notes Indonesian immigration staff may refuse entry to
Australians with a criminal record, regardless of how long ago the offence took
place.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                            January 6, 2015 Tuesday

Parents' feared Islamic terrorists would target school after cyber attack

BYLINE: Stuart Minting

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 427 words


PARENTS have spoken of their fear that a village primary school would be
targeted by Islamic extremists after its website was hacked by people claiming
to be Muslim anarchists.

North Yorkshire Police and North Yorkshire County Council moved to calm parents
of pupils at Sowerby Community Primary School ytoday (Tuesday, January 6) after
hackers calling themselves X-saad posted a statement on the website, which
normally features school news.

Above several lines written in Arabic, the hackers stated: "We defend our
religion, we do not forget, we are without limits, we do not believe in laws.

"Islam is not a terrorist religion, but Islam is the religion of co-existence
and mercy and love, the terrorists are Israel and America."

The message, which also featured the US and Israeli flags with a red cross
through them, ended with "f*** Zionists".

News of the cyber attack spread rapidly among the school community, and amid
mounting speculation over pupils' safety on social media, some parents said they
planned to keep their children at home for the first day of term.

Jennifer Lofthouse, whose children are among the 230 attending the school, said
a concerned parent had alerted her to the attack and the Arabic writing sparked
concern the school would be targeted by terrorists.

She said: "The first thing I thought was I'm not taking the kids to school."

The cake decorator said after consulting a website professional she decided the
school would be safe and said many parents made the same decision as the school
had sent families a message of reassurance.

To stimulate further confidence, governors and police officers attended the
school to answer questions as children returned from their Christmas holidays.

Inspector Chris Galley said the hackers used a virus which seeks out servers
with weak security software.

He said: "Other organisations and businesses both locally, nationally and
internationally have had their websites compromised in a similar manner in
recent months and there is no suggestion that Sowerby Primary School was
deliberately targeted in any way."

A North Yorkshire County Council spokesman said: "Our schools place great
importance on website security, but we understand that despite all best efforts
public and corporate websites can be compromised in this way from time to time.

"We are reassured by the police in this case that this was a random breach and
that children are not at any risk."

Sowerby Parish Council chairman Bill Austin said he was dismayed by the attack
on a school which had strived to earn its excellent reputation.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Al-Arab (English)

                                January 7, 2015

France suffers deadliest terrorist attack in four decades

LENGTH: 665  words


Heavily armed gunmen shouting Islamist slogans storm offices of Charlie Hebdo
and shoot dead at least 12 people.


Attackers were shouting 'we have avenged the
prophet'


Heavily armed gunmen shouting Islamist slogans stormed a Paris satirical
newspaper office Wednesday and shot dead at least 12 people in the deadliest
attack in France in four decades.

Police launched a massive manhunt for the masked attackers who reportedly
hijacked a car and sped off, running over a pedestrian and shooting at officers.

Police said witnesses heard the attackers, who were armed with a Kalashnikov and
rocket launcher, shout "we have avenged the prophet" and "Allahu akbar" (God is
greatest).

Two police were confirmed among the dead and four people were critically
injured.

The capital was placed under the highest alert status after the attack on
Charlie Hebdo, a satirical weekly that has sparked anger in the past among
Muslims for publishing cartoons of the prophet Mohamed (PBUH).

Television footage showed large numbers of police in the area, bullet-riddled
windows and people being carried away on stretchers.

The attack took place at a time of heightened fears in France and other European
capitals over fallout from the wars in Iraq and Syria where hundreds of European
citizens have gone to fight alongside the radical Islamic State group.

President Francois Hollande, who immediately rushed to the scene of the
shooting, described it as a barbaric terrorist attack.

"An act of exceptional barbarism has just been committed here in Paris against a
newspaper, meaning (against) the expression of liberty," Hollande said at the
scene.

One man who witnessed the shooting said he saw two attackers shooting their way
out of Charlie Hebdo at around 11:30 am (1030GMT).

"I saw them leaving and shooting. They were wearing masks. These guys were
serious," said the man who declined to give his name.

"At first I thought it was special forces chasing drug traffickers or something.
We weren't expecting this. You would think we were in a movie."

Hollande called for "national unity", adding that "several terrorist attacks had
been foiled in recent weeks".

The White House condemned the attack in the "strongest possible terms," while
British Prime Minister David Cameron called it "sickening."

"We stand with the French people in the fight against terror and defending the
freedom of the press," Cameron said in a message on Twitter.

Wednesday's shooting is one of the worst attacks in France in decades.

In 1995, a bomb in a commuter train attributed to Algerian extremists exploded
at the Saint Michel metro station in Paris, killing eight and wounding 119.

The satirical newspaper gained notoriety in February 2006 when it reprinted
cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) that had originally appeared in Danish
daily Jyllands-Posten, causing fury across the Muslim world.

Its offices were fire-bombed in November 2011 when it published a cartoon of
Mohammed and under the title "Charia Hebdo".

Despite being taken to court under anti-racism laws, the weekly continued to
publish controversial cartoons of the Muslim prophet (PBUH).

In September 2012 Charlie Hebdo published cartoons of a naked Mohammed as
violent protests were taking place in several countries over a low-budget film,
titled "Innocence of Muslims", which was made in the United States and insulted
the prophet.

French schools, consulates and cultural centres in 20 Muslim countries were
briefly closed along with embassies for fear of retaliatory attacks at the time.

Editor Stephane Charbonnier has received death threats and lives under police
protection.

This week's front page featured controversial author French Michel Houellebecq,
whose latest book "Soumission", or "Submission," which imagines a France in the
near future that is ruled by an Islamic government, came out Wednesday.

The book has widely been touted as tapping into growing unease among non-Muslim
French about immigration and the rise of Islamic influence in society.

Alarab Online.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 172


                         Copyright 2015 Alarab Online.
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 7, 2015 Wednesday

French police say 11 dead in terror attack on newspaper

LENGTH: 182 words


Text of report by French Europe 1 radio on 7 January

[Report by Marc-Antoine Bindler: "Shooting at Charlie Hebdo Office: 11 Dead
According to the Police"]

A shoot out took place on Wednesday [7 January] morning at around 1130 [1030
GMT] in the building housing the offices of Charlie Hebdo satirical weekly, at
rue Nicolas Appert, in the 11th department. The provisional casualties' toll has
quickly risen to ten deaths, according to the latest figures released by the
Paris prosecutor.

Witnesses describe two hooded men in black who allegedly opened fire in the
building. According to witnesses, one of the attackers shouted: "The prophet was
avenged." Shortly before, Paris town hall reported six serious injuries. "I
think that there are victims," designer Renaud Luzier, known as Luz visibly
panicked, said over the phone.

President Francois Hollande is expected to arrive to the scene of the shooting,
while Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve is already there. A ministerial
meeting is scheduled at 14 hours at the Elysee [presidential palace].

Source: Europe 1 radio, Paris, in French 7 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 7, 2015 Wednesday

Morocco strongly condemns Charlie Hebdo "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 144 words


Text of report in English by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news
agency MAP website

Rabat, 7 January - Morocco has "strongly condemned the terrorist attack" on the
[French weekly] Charlie Hebdo editorial office, which claimed the lives of
innocent people, Morocco's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation said
Wednesday.

The Kingdom offers its sincere condolences to the families of the victims and
expresses its solidarity with the government and the French people, the ministry
said a statement.

The ministry also reiterated "its condemnation of terrorism whatever its
motives, origins and forms", the same source added.

Two unidentified persons attacked the Charlie Hebdo editorial office in Paris.
According to preliminary reports, 12 people were killed during the terrorist
act.

Source: MAP news agency website, Rabat, in English 1818 gmt 7 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 7, 2015 Wednesday

Albanian minister strongly condemns Paris "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 136 words


Text of report in English by Albanian state news agency ATA

[Report by Gjergji Mima: "Albania Strongly Condemns Terrorist Attack on Chairlie
Hebdo, Ministry of Foreign Affairs"]

Tirana, 7 January (ATA) - Albanian Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ditmir Bushati
condemned on Wednesday [7 January] the terrorist attack occurred today in
France, on the French satirical weekly "Charlie Hebdo", in a post on "Twitter".

"Albania strongly condemns the terrorist attack on Charlie Hebdo. We stand with
France in these difficult times", writes Albanian Minister.

At least 12 people were killed and 10 others injured in a shooting at the
offices of French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo, in an unusual act against a
press organ in France, announced on Wednesday investigative sources.

Source: ATA, Tirana, in English 1322 gmt 7 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 7, 2015 Wednesday

France: Witnesses, public figures comment on terror attack in Paris

LENGTH: 1460 words


Text of report by French centre-left daily newspaper Liberation website on 7
January

[Unattributed report: "Charlie Hebdo: Charb, Wolinski, Cabu,and Tignous Dead"]

1633. "I feel as though I had been smashed in the face by a six story building,"
artist Sine said.

1625. British writer Salman Rushdie responded on Twitter.

1611. Rallies are planned at several locations in France.

1608. Charlie Hebdo (and Liberation) artist Willem responded to the attack.
"This journal has been decapitated, like in Syria and Iraq. This is the only
time anywhere in the world that a paper has been destroyed like this." "These
are not just colleagues, they are friends. Cabu is the most gifted cartoonist of
his generation; everyone imitates him."

"WE ARE ALL WITH CHARLIE"

1605. All the journalists' association from Le Monde, Les Echos, L'Obs,
Telerama, Rue89, Radio France, RFI, AFP, AEF agency, Le Point, L'Express, and
Liberation, condemed this unspeakable act of terrorism perpetrated at the
Charlie Hebdo offices today. "We journalists want to express our deep sadness
and anger, and we want to express our support to our colleagues, to the police,
and to families affected by this terrible. By targeting them, the assailants
attacked freedom and democracy. Journalists will tirelessly defend these values,
the inalienable right to freedom of expression."

1600. Readers arrived to pay tribute to "their" weekly.

1548. Prime Minister Manuel Valls said that "France has been struck to the
heart" and that all French people are horrified." "The only thing that we can
say to them (French people - Liberation editor's note) is that we will do
everything possible, and this is the essential taslk of the law and order
forces, under judicial authority, to apprehend these individuals. This is the
sole task, the sole objective in the coming hours," he said

1538. The Arab League and Al-Azhar, the principal Sunni Islamic authority,
condemned this "terrorist" attack.

1533. Neighbours gave evidence. The wife of Luz, a Charlie Hebdo cartoonist,
tried to cross the police security cordon on Boulevard Richard-Lenoir, a few
steps away from the offices: "I am Luz's wife, I absolutely must find by
husband," she exploded, on the verge of tears. "My husband and I woke up half an
hour later than planned. So he reached Charlie after the shootout. I know he is
fine, but I have had no news, which worries me terribly."

A mailwoman also witnessed the event. Still under shock, she explained: "I was
in the building adjoining the Charlie Hebdo offices, doing my around. I saw two
men in black, heavily armed and hooded, going in. They asked us where the
entrance to Charlie Hebdo was, because they did not know. They fired some shots
to frughten us," she said breathlessly .

1532. American President Barack Obama condemned the attack.

1528. Following the interministerial crisis meeting the Elysee [presidency],
attended by Jean-Yves Le Drian (defence), Christiane Taubira (justice), Laurent
Fabius (foreign affairs), Fleur Pellerin (culture and communications,) and the
heads of the police and gendarmerie services, Interior Minister Bernard
Cazeneuve confirmed the provisional toll: "12 people died, and eight were
wounded; four of them are in a dangerous condition." Cazeneuve said that he had
asked all police chiefs to "take precautions" at sensitive locations (stations
and cultural and pibic institution) and to mobilize the police and gendarmerie.
An interministerial crisis unit has been established at place Beauvau [Interior
Ministry], headed by Bernard Cazeneuve to identify and arrest the perpetrators.

1526. L'Humanite received a report from artist Coco, who was there this morning.
Contacted by telephone, Corinne Rey, aka "Coco," said: "I went to fetch my
daughter from the creche, and when I reached the entrance to the newspaper
building two hooded and armed men threatened us brutally. They wanted to enter,
to go up. I keyed in the code. They shot Wolinski, Cabu... It lasted five
minutes. I hid under a desk. They spoke perfect French. They claimed to be
Al-Qa'idah."

1517. Bernard Cazeneuve [interior minister] confirmed there were "three
criminals."

1516. Investigators issues an appeal for witnesses following the deadly attack
on satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo in which 12 people died, the Paris Judicial
Police force (PJ announced. A hotline (08 05 02 17 17) has "been a made
available" and "activated" to gather all reports of the attack, according to
Richard Atlan, spokesman for Paris Judicial Police Force headquarters, whose
Criminal Brigade has been put in charge of the investigation, together with the
General Directorate of Domestic Security (DGSI).

1512. Antonio Fischetti, a Charlie Hebdo journalist, was not in the building
this Wednesday [7 January]. He told Liberation about the threats that the
satirical weekly has received, police protection, and Charb's bodyguards. "The
idea of maybe being blown up someday was in our in our minds. But carnage on
such a scale, with the intention of killing everyone... The survivors are those
who arrived late, such as Luz and Catherine Meurisse. Or those were absent, such
as me, having had to attend a funeral outside Paris. We were friends, not just
colleagues."

1501. Bayrou [Democratic Movement president] said that there is "only one duty -
to stand together" and "ensure national unity."

1500. According to several sources, economist Bernard Maris died in the attack.

SARKOZY CALLS FOR "NATIONAL UNITY"

1245. At UMP [Union for a Popular Movement] headquarters in Paris, Nicolas
Sarkozy called for "national unity" and "urged French peopl to reject the
temptation to lump everyone together." "The Republic must rally together." "The
government," he said, "must adopt measures to counter terrorism," initiatives
that his "political grouping will support unreservedly." The UMP leader
condemned "a despicable act that conflicts with human conscience" and "a savage
attack on one of the most precious principles of our Republic, freedom of
expression." "Those guilty of this barbaric act must be prosecuted and punished
severely. Democracy is under attack, we must defend it without weakness, keep
saying what we want to say, and live how we want to live," Nicolas Sarkozy said.

1450. Antiracist organizations urged people not to lump everyone together. Licra
(Struggle Against Racism and Anti-Semitism) President Alain Jakubowic said that
"it will be increasingly difficult to be a Muslim in our country, and that is
not good news." "There is a great fear that we will again see Islam identified
as being behind this monstrous act," the Licra president said, expressing his
"dismay."

1548. The hashtag #jesuischarlie which has appeared on Twitter had been used
over 45,000 times in an hour, shortly before 1545

1431. Valls [prime minister] has "activated" the interministerial crisis unit.

1430. Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper condemned "a barbaric terrorist
act."

1429. A France 2 journalist tweeted a photograph of the vehicle abandoned by the
gunmen.

1428. Bruno L. lives at number 2 rue Appert, very near the Charlie Hebdo
offices, at number 10. At 1130, he heard a salvo of gunfire, a dozen shots, he
said. "I thought it was fireworks, so I was not worried." Then, 5 or 6 minutes
later, there was a second salvo, some 20 shots this time. Perhaps that was when
the attackers left the building and confronted police. "I did not know that
Charlie Hebdo was based there," he said. "Now I know why there was a CRS [state
security police] vehicle outside the building." At 1150, a column of firetrucks
and police vehicles enetered the neighbourhood.

1427. President Francois Hollande's New Year's message to the religious
authorities, scheduled to take place at 1800 today, will go ahead, the Elysee
[presidency] announced. However it will make held behind closed doors, and
Francois Holande's speech to religious representatives will not be released to
the press.

WOLINSKI, TIGNOUS, CHARB AND CABU DEAD

1421. A judicial source cited by l'AFP said that the illustrators, Wolinski and
Tignous, had also died.

1420. "The gunmen behaved in a highly military fashion," we were told by a
source close to the inquiry, "and must surely seek refuge in Paris."

1400. According to a source close to the inquiry questioned by Liberation, the
gunmen entered the Charlie Hebdo building and had the receptionist take them to
very specific journalists.

1350. According to a source close to the inquiry questioned by Liberation,
Charlie Hebdo editor Charb and Cabu died in the attack.

1349. The PS [French Socialist Party] has called for a "Republicans' march" in
Paris this afternoon.

1348. The education office announced that school outings and activities outside
school had been suspended.

Source: Liberation website, Paris, in French 7 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 7, 2015 Wednesday

Iran condemns "terrorist attack" in France

LENGTH: 211 words


Iran's Foreign Ministry has condemned the "terrorist attack" in France but
expressed regret that adoption of "double standards in countering extremist" had
lead to the spread of such attacks.

Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham condemned the attack and stressed
that "any acts of terrorism against innocent people are contrary to the
teachings of Islam", the Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA) reported on January
7 citing a ministry statement.

"This sort of behaviour is a continuation of a wave of unprecedented extremism
and seeking violence - physically and mentally - which has developed across the
world in the past decade," Afkham said referring to the attack on the Paris
office of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.

"Unfortunately adoption of double standards in countering extremism and violence
has lead to the spread of such behaviour and actions," she added.

Afkham also condemned "abuses of freedom of speech, mental extremism, character
assassination of religious figures and insulting religions and religious
symbols".

The satirical weekly is famous for its irreverent take on news and current
affairs and for publishing caricatures of prophets, including Prophet Muhammad.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency, Tehran, in Persian 1759 gmt 7 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 7, 2015 Wednesday

Romanian president condemns terrorist attack against French magazine

LENGTH: 203 words


Text of report in English by Romanian government news agency Agerpres

Bucharest, Jan 7 /Agerpres/ -President Klaus Iohannis said on Wednesday [7
January] that the terrorist attack on the offices of the French magazine Charlie
Hebdo was 'cruel and cowardly'. The head of state voiced his compassion for the
victims' families and solidarity with the French nation.

'Attacking the offices of the French magazine Charlie Hebdo is a cruel and
cowardly terrorist act. I express my sympathy for the families of the victims,
as well as solidarity with the French nation hardly hit today. I assure all
partners of Romania of the full support in the fight against terrorism and
extremism of any kind. The international community must take a firm stand
against terrorist attempts to destroy the rule of law state, violation of civil
rights and freedoms,' Iohannis said, according to the Presidential
Administration.

He points out that freedom of information is a fundamental human right.

'Both religious and ethnic tolerance, and freedom of expression as well are the
foundations of modern civilization, built on the principles of democracy,'
according to Iohannis.

Source: Agerpres news agency, Bucharest, in English 1426 gmt 7 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                           January 7, 2015 Wednesday

Magazine Terror Attack: Initial Implications

LENGTH: 617  words



HIGHLIGHT: The terror attack against French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo
will heighten security concerns in European cities, and could provide a further
boost to France's far-right National Front. There is also a salient risk of copy
cat attacks against 'soft' targets elsewhere.


 BMI View: The terror attack against French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo
will heighten security concerns in European cities, and could provide a further
boost to France's far-right National Front. There isalsoa salient risk of copy
cat attacksagainst 'soft' targetselsewhere.

Details about the January 7 terror attack against French satirical magazine
Charlie Hebdo are still emerging, and no doubt we will hear more about the
perpetrators and their motivations in the near future. However, the prevailing
theory is that the magazine was targeted because it has a history of publishing
cartoons which caricatured the Prophet Mohammed, and more recently, Islamic
State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL, ISIS, 'Islamic State') leader Abu Bakr
al-Baghdadi. Previously, Charlie Hebdo's headquarters were firebombed in late
2011 after it put an image of the Prophet Mohammed on its cover, although no one
was hurt in that incident. Western European leaders have condemned the attacks
and characterised them as threats against the freedom of speech.

The death toll stands at 12 people, including editor-in-chief Stephane
Charbonnier, four cartoonists, and two policemen. This makes the Charlie Hebdo
attack the deadliest in France in at least four decades. Although the number of
victims is still low compared to the 3/11 train bombing in Madrid (191) in 2004
and the 7/7 train and bus bombings in London (52) in 2005, the Paris incident
will certainly raise terrorism concerns in other Western cities. It was only in
mid-December 2014 that an Islamist gunman seized a cafe in Sydney, resulting in
the deaths of three hostages as well as the gunman himself. In October 2014,
Canada experienced terror attacks. There is thus a salient risk of copy cat
attacks against 'soft' targets elsewhere.

Following the Charlie Hebdo attacks, the gunmen are still at large, meaning that
further deaths cannot be ruled out, as the manhunt closes in on the
perpetrators. It is unclear whether the gunmen acted out of their own
initiative, or were directed by al-Qaeda or ISIS, but if external radical
Islamist groups were behind the Paris attack, they would have proven once again
their ability to strike against their enemies in the West.

France is no stranger to Islamist terrorism, having experienced train bombings
in the 1990s attributed to the civil war in Algeria, in which France backed the
government against Islamist forces. More recently, in 2012, a gunman killed
three soldiers in Toulouse and Montauban, and subsequently three students and a
teacher at a Jewish school.

France's involvement in international military campaigns against Islamist
militant groups in countries such as Afghanistan, Mali, and Iraq-Syria means
that it will retain the ire of radical groups for the foreseeable future.

The Charlie Hebdo attack is likely to boost the far-right National Front in
France, given that party's tough stance on immigration. The party is already
riding high under leader Marine Le Pen and could make it into the second round
of the 2017 presidential election. The attack could also bolster similar parties
across Europe, which are rising in prominence thanks to weak economies and
widespread opposition to immigration. For example, Germany saw
'anti-Islamisation' demonstrations in several cities in the first week of
January 2015.

More broadly, the targeting of Charlie Hedbo, and the cyber attack against Sony
Pictures over its production of the film 'The Interview' (which features the
assassination of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un), demonstrate the high risks
faced by organisations that portray revered figures in a negative light. This
could eventually lead to more self-censorship by Western media groups.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Political Risk Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 1:17 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo Paris terror attack: Video captures terrifying moment gunmen
stormed building shouting 'Allahou Akbar';
CLAD in black and wearing masks, the attackers fired rifles at the office of the
French magazine before entering

BYLINE: By Steve Robson

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 584 words


Gunmen storm Paris magazine in terror attack shouting 'Allahou Akbar'

This terrifying video captures the moment gunmen stormed the office of French
magazine Charlie Hebdo before killing at least 11 people today.

Journalist Martin Boudo was on a rooftop overlooking the building when two men
clad in black and jumped out of a car and opened fire.

FOR ALL THE LATEST ON THE SHOOTING - FOLLOW OUR LIVE BLOG.

Clad all in black and wearing masks, the attackers shouted 'Allahou Akbar'
before entering the office of the satirical publication in central Paris.

Another video showed a woman running from the gunfire to cower behind a car.

Gunshots and woman runs to hide behind car - first scene video from Paris
shooting

French media report "a number of fatalities," and the official death toll is 11
dead, with five people in a critical condition.

Witnesses say they heard sustained gunfire at the office as the attackers opened
fire with Kalashnikov assault rifles.

The weekly magazine has previously courted controversy with its depiction of
news and current affairs.

French TV channel iTELE quoted a witness as saying he saw the incident from a
building nearby in the heart of the French capital.

"About a half an hour ago two black-hooded men entered the building with
Kalashnikovs (guns)," Benoit Bringer told the station.

"A few minutes later we heard lots of shots," he said, adding that the men fled
the building.

Prime Minister David Cameron joined the condemnation of the attack, saying: "The
murders in Paris are sickening. We stand with the French people in the fight
against terror and defending the freedom of the press."

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said the killings were a "barbaric attack on
freedom of speech".

"My thoughts are with the victims, their families and their colleagues," he
said.

The publication has launched a series of attacks on Muslim extremism and the
last tweet on its profile page @Charlie-Hebdo-, sent about an hour before the
shootings, included a satirical cartoon of Islamic State leader Abu Bakr
al-Baghdadi.

In it he wishes everyone "good health".

A police official, Luc Poignant, said he was aware of one journalist dead and
several injured, including three police officers.

"It's carnage," Poignant told BFM TV.

In December 2011, its office was firebombed after it said the Prophet Muhammad
would be editor-in-chief of its next issue.

The French media reports that the assailants fled from the scene in a black car
and are now on the run.

The area has been cordoned off by police.

Charlie Hebdo shooting

President of the National Assembly Claude Bartolone said: "Scenes of horror at
the offices of Charlie Hebdo. My solidarity is with the victims."

Charlie Hebdo is a satirical comedy weekly newspaper and features cartoons and
irreverent stories and frequently lampoons religions of all types.

It first ran from 1969 to 1981, when it folded, but the publication was
resurrected in 1992.

The editor is Stephane Charbonnier.

There have been a number of shootings in the France over the past few years. in
March 2012 Mohammed Merah, 23, a French man of Algerian descent, shot and killed
a rabbi, two of his children, and another child at a Jewish school, in Toulouse,
France, Police believe he had earlier shot and killed three paratroopers.

Merah said he was a member of Al Qaeda and that he was seeking revenge for the
killing of Palestinian children.

Charlie Hebdo shooting: As many as 10 people are feared to have been killed
after gunmen burst into the office of the satirical magazine

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 12:50 PM GMT

PARIS TERROR ATTACK: Why satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo was targetted

BYLINE: Paul Mosley

LENGTH: 469 words


THE French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, at the centre of the horrific
slaughter in Paris, is a more extreme version of Britain's Private Eye and does
not pull its punches.

The latest tweet on Charlie Hebdo's account was a cartoon gently taunting
Islamic State militant group leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.

The headling translates roughly as: "Best wishes, by the way and here's to your
health."

It is typical of the humour of Charlie Hebdo which publishes every week
featuring cartoons, scandal, humourous reports, angry rants and jokes.

In the best tradition of satirical mags it simply refuses to conform and is
consistently irreverent, strongly anti-religion and funny.

It doesn't care who it offends. It publishes articles from a Left Wing
perspective attacking the extreme right, Catholicism, Islam, Judaism, politics
and culture among its many targets.

The magazine's offices were seriously damaged by a petrol bomb following its
decision in November 2011 to appoint the prophet Muhammed as its "guest editor"
to mark the victory of an Islamist party in the Tunisian election.

A single Molotov cocktail was thrown at the offices during the night and a large
amount of material in the office was destroyed, but there were no injuries.

Charlie Hedbo's editor said at the time: "We no longer have a newspaper. All our
equipment has been destroyed."

The horrific terror shootings at the Paris-based magazine have shocked the
world.

But illustrating its cover in 2011 with Muhammed was not the first time the
magazine had courted trouble from Muslim extremists

brightcove.createExperiences;

In 2006, under the title "Muhammed overwhelmed by fundamentalists", the front
page showed a cartoon of a weeping Prophet Muhammad saying: "It's hard being
loved by jerks".

The newspaper also reprinted 12 controversial cartoons from Danish newspaper
Jyllands-Posten which depicted images of the prophet Muhammad and caused violent
protests around the world. And just for good measure Charlie Hebdo added some of
their own toons.

The Grand Mosque, the Muslim World League and the Union of French Islamic
Organisations sued the magazine, claiming the cartoon edition included racist
cartoons.

Politicians wrote to the court expressing support for the ancient French
tradition of satire and freedom of expression and in March, 2007, executive
editor Philippe Val was acquitted.

The court reasoned that two of the three cartoons were not an attack on Islam,
but on Muslim terrorists.

The third cartoon showing Mohammed with a bomb in his turban needed to be seen
in the context of the magazine attacking religious fundamentalism.

And it is that policy that seems to have led to the awful slaughter at the
Charlie Hebdo offices which has claimed a dozen lives.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 11:34 AM GMT

Charlie Hebdo terror attack: 12 people killed in deadly gun attack on French
satirical magazine in Paris;
TWELVE people, including two policemen, have been gunned down as attackers
opened sustained fire at the offices of the magazine Charlie Hebdo.

BYLINE: By Record Reporter

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 152 words


Charlie Hebdo shooting: As many as 10 people are feared to have been killed
after gunmen burst into the office of the satirical magazine

TWELVE people have been shot dead in an attack at the offices of a French
satirical magazine which angered some Muslims after publishing crude caricatures
of Islam's Prophet Mohammed, according to reports.

The attackers stormed the headquarters of the weekly Charlie Hebdo in Paris with
Kalashnikov rifles and witnesses to the incident reported sustained gunfire.

Benoit Bringer, a journalist with Agence Premiere Ligne - who saw the attack,
told the iTele network he saw several masked men armed with machine guns.

Left-wing weekly Charlie Hebdo has a track record of attacking religious and
political targets including the Catholic Church, Judaism and Islam.

Recently it tweeted a controversial cartoon of the Islamic State militant group
leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.Paris shooting

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 11:25 AM GMT

PARIS TERROR ATTACK: Manhunt continues for 'al-Qaida' killers after magazine
massacre

BYLINE: Tom Rawle

LENGTH: 549 words


A MASSIVE manhunt is continuing for the suspected al-Qaida militants who
murdered 12 people in Paris.

Police confirmed shots were heard being fired at around 11am at the HQ of
Charlie Hebdo, a publication known for it's controversial cartoons of the
Prophet Muhammad in 2011.

The gunmen, thought to have a grudge over the mag's open press policy, were
reported to have been carrying AK47 rifles and rocket launchers.

Officers tried to stop the attackers in a heated shootout but the raiders were
able to flee in a hijacked car and sped away.

Paris is on the highest level of alert as police and soldiers scour the French
capital for the killers.

The gunmen were reportedly heard shouting "Allahu Akbar" and "God is greatest"
as they opened fire.

Chilling images show the masked attackers standing close to a black car wielding
their weapons.

brightcove.createExperiences;

Other photos from the scene show windows with bullet holes in as emergency
services are spotted rushing in and out of the building.

Police official Luc Poignant described the scene as utter "carnage".

He said he was aware of one journalist being killed and several other people
injured, including three police officers.

Police confirmed eleven people, including journalists and police, have been
killed and 10 people have been wounded - with five critical.

Local news outlet Le Point reported that cartoonists Jean Cabu, Stephane
Charbonnier and Bernard "Tignous" Verlhac are among the dead.

"Charb" and "Cabu" are listed as publication director and artistic director
respectively.

Mr Charbonnier featured in a 2013 Wanted Dead or Alive for Crimes Against Islam
article published by al Quaida magazine, Inspire.

Luc Poignant, a Paris police official

Eyewitness Benoit Bringer told French TV channel iTELE: "Two black-hooded men
entered the building with Kalashnikovs .

"A few minutes later we heard lots of shots."

Another told reporters that police tried to stop the men escaping and exchanged
fire with the masked men.

They said: "Their was a loud gunfire and at least one explosion.

"One police arrived there was a mass shoot-out. The men got away by car,
stealing a car."

French defence officials have reportedly upped the national security level to
"alerte attentat", the highest possible alert.

Een video die is geplaatst door Boris BLR (TM) op Jan 1, 2015 at 4:02 PST

French President Francois Hollande attended the scene of the shooting and said
the incident was undoubtedly a "terrorist attack".

He said: "At this moment we have 11 people killed, four critically injured. This
is not the final figure.

"At least 40 people have been saved - we don't know the exact number of
victims."

He added: "We are looking for the perpetrators of this crime.

"France is today in shock, in front of a terrorist attack."

brightcove.createExperiences;

Prime Minister David Cameron, the Queen and Barack Obama have all condemned the
atrocity.

He said: "The murders in Paris are sickening.

"We stand with the French people in the fight against terror and defending the
freedom of the press."

The offices were targeted in a firebomb attack four years ago after the magazine
published the cartoons of the Muslim prophet on their front page.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           January 7, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

massacre in paris;
?TERRORISTS SHOOT DEAD 12 IN ATTACK OFFICES OF SATIRICAL MAGAZINE MASSIVE HUNT
FOR GUNMEN ARMED WITH AK47s AND GRENADE LAUNCHER ; Gunmen stormed office asking
for victims by name

BYLINE: Peter Allen ; Justin Davenport

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4,5

LENGTH: 767 words


Peter Allen in Paris and Justin Davenport and Rashid Razaq in London AT LEAST 12
people were killed when Islamist gunmen carried out a "massacre" in the Paris
offices of a satirical magazine today. Hooded attackers armed with Kalashnikov
assault rifles stormed the headquarters of weekly magazine Charlie Hebdo.

Ten people were also wounded, five critically, in the atrocity - Europe's worst
terrorist attack in recent years. Witnesses spoke of sustained gunfire at the
offices as at least two gunmen fired indiscriminately at staff.

Police confirmed that at least 12 people had died. The dead and injured
including journalists, administrative staff and police officers who had raced to
the scene. Eye-witnesses reported seeing hooded men dressed in black entering
the newspaper's HQ before firing their rifles.

One employee contacted by phone as the attack was going on said: "It's a
massacre. There are Continued on Page 4 Two policemen feared to be among dead
after shoot-out Continued from Page 1 dead." The call was then disconnected.
French TV channel Europe 1 reported witnesses saying the black-hooded men who
carried out the attack shouted, "Allah Akbar" and "the prophet has been
avenged".

There were reports that two police officers were among those killed and that the
gunmen had asked for journalist victims by name.

Officers were involved in a gunfight with the men, who escaped in a hijacked car
and sped away from the 15th arrondissement office towards east Paris.

As well as the AK47 assault rifles, there were also reports of a rocketpropelled
grenade being used.

When shots rang out it is thought that three policemen on bicycles were the
first to respond.

An eyewitness said: "There was loud gunfire and at least one explosion. Once the
police arrived there was a mass shoot-out. The men got away by car, stealing a
car."

The attack came after the magazine published a satirical tweet depicting a
cartoon of the Islamic State militant group leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. The
satirical weekly has attracted repeated threats for its caricatures of the
Prophet Mohammed, among other controversial sketches.

The offices were fire-bombed in 2011 after the magazine published an image of
the prophet Mohammed and today's attack came after it publicised a controversial
novel entitled Submission, by French author Michel Houellebecq, which talks of
France turning into an Islamic state by 2022.

The magazine featured the author and a reference to Ramadan on its front page
published yesterday.

The atrocity is the latest in a series of Islamist linked attacks in France.

President Hollande was on the scene today, declaring that the worst terrorist
atrocity in recent years this century was an unjustifiable attack on press
freedom.

He called the shooting a "cowardly assassination" and a "barbaric act against
journalists who wanted to defend their ideas". He added: "I will convene an
emergency cabinet meeting today to protect all areas where similar acts can be
committed."

He said there was "no doubt this is a terrorist attack", adding: "We must show
national unity and strength. France is moved by this attack because we are a
freedom-loving nation."

David Cameron condemned the attack saying: "The murders in Paris are sickening.
We stand with the French people in the fight against terror and defending the
freedom of the press."

The offices of the same magazine were burnt down in a petrol attack in 2011
after running a magazine cover of Mohammed as a cartoon character.

At the time, editor-in-chief Stephane Charbonnier said Islam could not be
excluded from freedom of the press.

He said: "If we can poke fun at everything in France, if we can talk about
anything in France apart from Islam or the consequences of Islamism, that is
annoying."

Mr Charbonnier said he did not regard the attack on the magazine as the work of
French Muslims but of what he called "idiot extremists".

The cover showed Mohammed saying: "100 lashes if you are not dying of laughter."
Inside, there was an editorial attributed to Mohammed and more cartoons, one
showing the prophet with a clown's red nose.

Depiction of the prophet is prohibited in Islam but the magazine denied it was
trying to be provocative.

Benoit Bringer, a journalist with Agence Premiere Ligne who witnessed the
attack, told the iTele network he saw several masked men armed with machine
guns.

He added that two officers arrived on bicycles and then left, apparently
unarmed.

More pictures and video on this story: www.standard.co.uk/paris
www.standard.co.uk

'There was loud gunfire and an explosion. Once police arrived there was a mass
shoot-out' Witness

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Terror target: the hooded gunmen fire at police outside the offices of
French magazine Charlie HebdoLast tweet: the cartoon posted online by Charlie
Hebdo an hour before the attackHorrific shooting: emergency workers carry one of
the injured away from the scene, right. A picture of a bullet hole tweeted from
inside the building, above, and a police car with bullet holes in the
windscreen. Staff take refuge on the roof, bottom

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 3:53 PM GMT

'I am Charlie' Twitter users begin #JeSuisCharlie trend following Paris terror
attack

BYLINE: Greg Heffer

LENGTH: 403 words


TWITTER users have sparked an 'I am Charlie' trend on the social network
following this morning's terror attack on the Paris offices of a French
satirical magazine.

AFP · GETTY · TWITTER

Thousands have used the Twitter hashtag #JeSuisCharlie

After news broke of a shooting at the offices of Charlie Hebdo in France's
capital, thousands included the hashtag #JeSuisCharlie in their Twitter posts.

By 1pm UK time, just two hours after the attack took place, 20,000 had joined
the growing trend, seemingly in solidarity with the 12 victims - including the
magazine's editor, two cartoonists and two police officers - of the four gunmen.

Many also posted photos including the words 'Je Suis Charlie', with others
commenting "the pen is mightier than the sword".

Famous names to use the hashtag included Piers Morgan and Manchester City
captain Vincent Kompany, as well as Jessica Pires - the wife of former Arsenal
and France midfielder Robert.

FULL STORY: 3000 OFFICERS ON THE HUNT FOR GUNMEN AFTER 12 KILLED IN HORROR
ATTACK

Charlie Hebdo has previously provoked fury for its controversial and
non-conformist content.

In November 2011 the magazine's offices in central Paris were gutted in a
firebomb attack.

The editor-in-chief Stephane Charbonnier said at the time he was convinced the
arson attack was linked to a special edition in which it joked that it had
appointed the Prophet Muhammed as its 'guest editor'.

#JeSuisCharlie #CharlieHebdo pic.twitter.com/tAHsVhlXoL

- Marco Mazevet January 7, 2015

The pen is mightier than the sword. #JeSuisCharlie

- Piers Morgan January 7, 2015

Don't let people make this about Islam, it's about free speech #JeSuisCharlie

- Fergus January 7, 2015

R.I.P

A photo posted by Jessica Pires Lifestyle on Jan 1, 2015 at 4:57am PST

Le Kalashnikov peut réduire l'individu au silence, le peuple en revanche lui
devient plus bruyant. Liberté d'expression! #JeSuisCharlie

- Vincent Kompany January 7, 2015

Sad day for France. Free speech must not be repressed. #jesuischarlie

- Charles Bell January 7, 2015 Related articles Paris shooting: 'Twelve killed
and four critical' in gun attack on magazine office Charlie Hebdo: The French
satirical magazine with a history of controversy  brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 9:39 PM GMT

Tony Abbott condemns 'barbaric' Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris;
Prime minister says security agencies are assessing the implications for
Australia of the Paris attack as the national terrorism alert level remains at
highCharlie Hebdo magazine attack - rolling coverage

BYLINE: Ben Doherty

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 475 words


Tony Abbott has joined global leaders in condemning the Charlie Hebdo attack as
"an unspeakable atrocity".

The prime minister said the thoughts of all Australians were with the families
of those "who have lost their lives in this barbaric act".

"Freedom of expression is the cornerstone of a free society ... if you don't
like something, you don't read it; you don't kill people you disagree with," he
said.

Twelve people were killed and an unknown number injured when three gunmen, armed
with Kalashnikovs and a rocket-launcher opened fire on an editorial meeting in
the Paris office of French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo (Charlie Weekly).

The magazine has attracted the opprobrium of some Muslim groups for its regular
depictions of the prophet Muhammad.

There are reports from French police the three gunmen have been arrested.

French police have confirmed they believe they know the men's identities but
have not commented on rumours of arrest.

Abbott said security agencies were working to assess the implications for
Australia of the Paris attack, but there was no information on any imminent
threat to Australia as a result.

Australian embassy officials in Paris are working to confirm no Australians were
caught up in the attack. It is not believed any were.

"The government will continue to do all it can to protect our community from
terrorism," Abbot said.

Australia's national terrorism alert level remains at high, meaning a terrorist
attack is likely.

The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (Dfat) travel advice for France says
there is an ongoing threat of terrorism in Europe.

"We assess there is a heightened threat of terrorist attack in a number of
European countries, including France. This threat is posed by those motivated by
the current conflict in Iraq and Syria."

Dfat has not raised the level of its general travel advice for France in
response to the incident.

"Take extra care in the Paris or Île de France area and follow the security
advice of French authorities.

"The French domestic terror threat level has been raised to the highest level
'Alerte - Attentat' in response to this incident. Authorities have introduce
heightened security measures in public places, including shopping areas, tourist
sites and transportation hubs."

On 20 December, French police in the city of Tours shot dead a man shouting
"Allahu Akbar", after he had stabbed and wounded three offices in a police
station. Investigators are treating the incident as a terrorist attack.

On 15 December, Sydney man Man Haron Monis took 18 people hostage during a
deadly siege in Martin Place. He claimed his act was "an act of terror committed
by Islamic State", but it is not believed he was acting with the knowledge of
the terror network.

Two hostages and the gunman were killed in the violent conclusion of the siege
in the early hours of 16 December.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 9:02 PM GMT

#JeSuisCharlie: grief and solidarity on Twitter after brutal Paris terror attack
;
Hashtag trends across the globe as social media users unite to condemn Charlie
Hebdo murders Charlie Hebdo attack: follow the latest developments

BYLINE: Alexandra Topping and Kim Willsher in Paris

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 437 words


As shock reverberated from around the streets of the 11th arrondissement of
Paris to the wider world, people took to the airwaves, internet and the street
to express their grief for those who had been lost and their commitment to free
speech.

Within hours, the hashtag #JeSuisCharlie - I am Charlie - had risen far above
the status of internet meme and become a phrase expressing solidarity, despair
and determination.

On Twitter, the phrase was used hundreds of thousands of times as people shared
cartoons from Charlie Hebdo and stated that despite the terrorist acts committed
in the offices of the satirical magazine, freedom of expression would not be
cowed. Many quoted Evelyn Beatrice Hall's expression of Voltaire's beliefs: "I
do not agree with what you have to say, but I'll defend to the death your right
to say it.''

When the Charlie Hebdo website, which was down for much of the day, came back
online it carried the phrase Je Suis Charlie in bold letters, with Charlie
written in the font of the publication's masthead. Viewers who clicked on the
link below saw the same poster, repeated again and again in languages including
Arabic, German and Spanish.

The US embassy in France was among many that changed their Twitter photo to Je
Suis Charlie, while dozens of cartoonists posted tributes to their fallen fellow
artists. David Pope, at the Canberra Times, posted a cartoon showing a terrorist
saying "he drew first", and wrote underneath: "Can't sleep tonight, thoughts
with my French cartooning colleagues, their families and loved ones."

A grieving public gathered in at least 30 cities in France from the Place de la
Republique in Paris to the Vieux Port in Marseille. A Facebook page that gave
details of all the demonstrations stated they were "good gatherings of
peace-lovers and Republicans, and as Chard said - death to idiots".

As night fell in Paris, despite the bitter cold, more than 5,000 people gathered
under the imposing statue of Marianne, the symbol of the republic, to show their
anger, grief and solidarity. Some lit candles, others held up copies of Charlie
Hebdo, including one that had on the cover a Muslim kissing a magazine
cartoonist, with the headline: "Love is stronger than hate.". Others simply held
aloft pens in protest at the killing of journalists. "We need to show the
terrorists that they cannot win," said Jules, a student.

"Everyone is shocked: the cartoonists Charb, Cabu, Wolinski, Tignous... we grew
up with them. Half of France grew up with them," said one man, who did not want
to be named and, like many in the crowd, was close to tears. "My God, how could
this happen?"

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 3:39 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo shooting: At least 12 killed as shots fired at satirical
magazine's Paris office;
Police say two officers and 10 journalists are dead, with five others in
critical condition, following what President Hollande calls a 'terrorist attack
of the most extreme barbarity'

BYLINE: Adam Withnall, John Lichfield

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1498 words


At least 12 people have been killed in a shooting incident at the Paris office
of French satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo, police have confirmed.

Witnesses said that at least two gunmen were involved, and that they were seen
armed with AK-47s and pump-action shotguns. The attackers themselves are still
on the run.

Four of France's best-known satirical cartoonists, including the magazine's
editor, were among the dead. A further 12 people were injured, some gravely, in
what is the worst terrorist incident in France for 40 years. In pictures:
Charlie Hebdo shooting

Police said that at least 10 of the killings took place in the initial attack
inside the building, or died within minutes because of the seriousness of their
injuries.

As the gunmen left in a black Citroën hatchback, they met with a police car
which was part of the permanent protection given to the magazine after it was
firebombed in 2011. The attackers got out of their vehicle and opened fire,
killing two officers.

Video footage posted to social media showed armed gunmen running through the
streets of Paris, shooting with automatic weapons and shouting "Allahu Akbar".
According to an eye-witness, one of the gunmen shouted: "The Prophet is
avenged."

Below is an edited version of one of the videos.

Warning: Viewers may find the following video distressing

Paris has raised its terror alert to the highest setting in the aftermath of the
attack, while a manhunt has begun for those involved. A social media post from
France's AFP news agency reported that the men may also have been armed with at
least one rocket-launcher, though this was not corroborated by other reports.

France's interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve said police were looking for "three
criminals", though it was not clear how many took part in the shooting itself.
All resources had been mobilised, he said, "to neutralise those who committed
this barbaric act".

A Charlie Hebdo cartoonist who survived the attack described how two "hooded and
armed men" forced her to enter the code letting them into the magazine's
offices.

Corinne "Coco" Rey told the French newspaper L'Humanite that the attack lasted
five minutes. She said the assailants "spoke perfect French" and "claimed to be
from al-Qaeda".

The French President Francois Hollande has travelled to the scene in Paris's
11th arrondissement after what he called a "terrorist attack of the most extreme
barbarity".

He said it was the latest in a series of terrorist incidents on French soil, and
that the nation was in a state of shock.

"This is a difficult moment for France," Hollande told reporters. "We have
prevented several attacks. We knew that we were still under threat because we
are a country that cherishes freedom."

The urgent priority for officials on Wednesday afternoon remained tracking down
those responsible. Paris police said the gunmen abandoned their car at the
northern Porte de Patin and escaped.

Mr Cazeneuve said the attack had set in motion protective measures across "all
French territories", including bolstered security at houses of worship, stores,
media offices and transportation hubs.

Schools across the French capital closed their doors, while top government
officials held a meeting of the national emergency committee. President Hollande
has scheduled a national TV address to update the public on the situation later
on Wednesday evening.

Police confirmed to French media that the dead included the magazine's editor
and chief cartoonist, Stéphane Charbonnier, known as "Charb", and Jean Cabut, or
"Cabu", a veteran of several French newspapers and reportedly the highest paid
cartoonist in the world.

According to a journalist at the scene, at least one of the police officers
killed had been assigned to protect Mr Charbonnier personally. In 2013 he was
included on a "most wanted" list published by Inspire, al-Qaeda's terrorist
propaganda magazine.

Two other cartoonists, Georges Wolinski and Bernard Verlhac, or "Tignous", were
also reported as having been killed.

Charb had previously defended a controversial series of cartoons depicting the
Prophet Mohammed in 2012, saying: "Muhammad isn't sacred to me. I don't blame
Muslims for not laughing at our drawings. I live under French law. I don't live
under Koranic law."

Charlie Hebdo's editor-in-chief Gerard Biard escaped the carnage because he was
in London.

He told France Inter: "I don't understand how people can attack a newspaper with
heavy weapons. A newspaper is not a weapon of war."

Mr Biard said he did not believe the attack was linked to the magazine's latest
front page, which featured novelist Michel Houellebecq. The writer's new novel
"Submission", released in France on Wednesday, has caused controversy after it
was described by critics as an "Islamophobic scare story".

Yet the magazine had not received any recent threats of violence, Mr Biard said:
"Not to my knowledge, and I don't think anyone had received them as individuals,
because they would have talked about it. There was no particular tension at the
moment."

A year earlier, the magazine's offices were firebombed after a spoof issue
featured a caricature of Mohammed on its cover. The edition "invited" Mohammed
to be its guest editor.

According to one report, journalists were discussing a new Islam-themed edition
on Wednesday when the gunmen burst in.

The latest post made by the Charlie Hebdo Twitter account was a picture of the
Isis militant group leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.

Jyllands-Posten, the Danish newspaper which sparked protests when it published
cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed in 2005, has increased its own security in the
wake of the Paris shooting, France 24 reported. Charlie Hebdo re-published the
same cartoons in 2006.

One witness to Wednesday's shooting, Gilles Boulanger, who works in the same
building as the Charlie Hebdo offices, likened the scene to a war zone.

He told the BBC: "A neighbour called to warn me that there were armed men in the
building and that we had to shut all the doors.

"And several minutes later there were several shots heard in the building from
automatic weapons firing in all directions.

"So then we looked out of the window and saw the shooting was on Boulevard
Richard-Lenoir, with the police. It was really upsetting. You'd think it was a
war zone."

Another witness, Benoit Bringer, told TV station France Info: "We heard shouting
in the street. We saw hooded men carrying Kalashnikovs enter the building. We
called the police. After a few minutes we heard heavy firing, a lot of firing.
We went upstairs onto the roof.

"After about 10 minutes we saw two armed men come out into the street. Three
policemen arrived on bikes but had to leave because the men were armed. There
was a lot more shouting in the street, a lot more gunshots. The attackers took
off in a car."

David Cameron led the British response to the unfolding incident, condemning the
attack on Twitter.

Read more: It's Charlie Hebdo's right to draw MuhammadVideo claims to show
gunshots being fired at Charlie Hebdo officesFrance was gripped by tension even
before these shootingsCharlie Hebdo shooting: Live updates from Paris

"The murders in Paris are sickening," he posted. "We stand with the French
people in the fight against terror and defending the freedom of the press."

Philip Hammond, the British Foreign Secretary, wrote: "Appalled to hear news of
apparent terrorist attack in Paris. My thoughts are with the family and friends
of those killed."

A statement from the White House also condemned the attack "in the strongest
possible terms". "The US stands ready to work closely with the French," it said.

Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel called it an "attack on freedom of speech".

Read more: Charlie Hebdo - a profile of the French satirical
magazine#JeSuisCharlie shows worldwide solidarity with shooting victimsMadrid HQ
of Prisa media group evacuated over 'suspect package'

"This abominable act is not only an attack on the lives of French citizens and
their security," a statement read. "It is also an attack on freedom of speech
and the press, core elements of our free democratic culture. In no way can this
be justified."

Pope Francis has also condemned the shooting. The Vatican said it was "a double
act of violence, abominable because it is both an attack against people as well
as against freedom of the press".

In a statement, the French journalists' union Syndicat National des Journalistes
(SNJ) said the attack represented attempts to "silence" the entire profession.

"The massacre perpetrated against the editorial staff of Charlie Hebdo is a
horror that strikes at us all. When journalists are killed, it is done to make
an entire profession feel fear; it is done to silence. Attacking a newspaper is
an attempt to muzzle the freedom of expression that exists in a democracy."

A Twitter campaign under the banner #JeSuisCharlie has quickly gained momentum
as thousands pledge support for the magazine and to the victims of the attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           January 7, 2015 Wednesday

Spending defence budgets the wrong way risks major damage from terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 304 words


January 7, 2015

Governments that fail to account for analysis of terrorists' personal
information in allocating their defence budgets risk increased damage from
terrorist attacks, new research from the Desautels Faculty of Management finds.



The study shows that the need to distinguish between different types of
terrorists is critical to develop strategies that effectively protect locations
at risk of attack.

Professor Mehmet Gümüs and his PhD student Dr. Nikoofal find that there are two
types of terrorists; either organised or unorganised. Organised terrorists
observe the behaviours of governments and defence measures in place before they
carry out an attack, while unorganised terrorists act without such planning.

Examining publicly available budgets data from US defence organisations, the
study has proved that the best way to limit damage from organised terrorism is
to protect all locations equally, whereas protecting the locations most at risk
is better against unorganised terrorist attacks.

The first strategy is called comprehensive, the second is concentrated. When
used correctly, they both have the potential to lower the risk of extreme damage
caused by an attack.

Professor Gümüs says: "The issue is that governments have finite budgets, so if
they choose just one strategy and it's used incorrectly against a terrorist
threat, the repercussions could be huge. Time, effort and resources need to be
invested in intelligence data, its continuous collection is so important to
categorise terrorists and the best ways to limit damage. Defence strategies need
to be flexible to take this into account."

For more information, to request a copy of the study or to speak with Professor
Gümüs, please contact Stephanie Mullins at BlueSky PR - smullins@bluesky-pr.com
or call +44 (0) 1582 790 706

Via SourceWire

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 6:31 PM GMT

Soldiers on the streets: Military is brought in to protect Eiffel Tower, media
offices, places of worship and public transport links as France responds to
terror attack

BYLINE: CHRIS PLEASANCE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 494 words



     ·    Soldiers pictured patrolling Paris in combat fatigues with machine
          guns
     ·    Troops deployed to train stations, places of worship, and public
          spaces
     ·    Three gunmen who attacked offices in the city this morning still at
          large


Heavily armed soldiers are patrolling the streets of Paris today as three gunmen
who attacked the offices of controversial magazine Charlie Hebdo remain on the
loose.

The French government has upped security at train stations, places of worship,
newspaper offices and public spaces this afternoon after 12 people, including
police officers and journalists, were shot dead earlier today.

Soldiers wearing green berets, dressed in combat fatigues, and carrying Famas
assault rifles have been pictured in front of the Eiffel Tower and inside
Montparnasse railway station.

Scroll down for video

French authorities have now raised the threat alert to the highest level
possible, while the British Foreign Office has issued a warning to those
travelling to the city.

Three gunmen are believed to have forced their way into the offices of magazine
Charlie Hebdo this morning and asked for senior staff by name in fluent French
before executing them.

The attack is believed to be in retaliation for cartoon images published by the
magazine which depicted the Prophet Mohammed, which is deeply offensive to
Muslims.

Hebdo had its offices burned down in 2011 after publishing an issue of the
magazine entitled Sharia Weekly which claimed to be guest edited by the holy
figure, and featured the cover slogan '100 lashes if you don't die laughing'.

The editor and head cartoonist Stephane Charbonnier, who is believed to be among
the dead, was also put on Al Qaeda's most wanted list last year after spending
months under police protection.

Officers were also detailed to guard the offices, according to Charbonnier's
lawyer, and today French police were confirmed to be among the dead.

Video footage from the scene of the killing shows two of the attackers climbing
out of a black Citroen before cutting an officer down with five precise shots.

They advance to where the man is laying using military-style techniques,
covering each other as they run, before executing him with a single round to the
head.

Also among the dead are some of France's most revered cartoonists including
Georges Wolinski, Bernard 'Tignous' Verlhac, Jean Cabut and Bernard Maris.

President Francois Hollande described the bloodbath as a 'barbaric attack
against France and against journalists' and vowed to hunt down those
responsible.

The attack took place during the publication's weekly editorial meeting, meaning
all the journalists would have been present.

Corrine Ray, a young mother and cartoonist who survived the massacre, today told
how she was forced to allow the killers into the office.

She described hiding under a desk during the shooting, saying the editors were
called out by name before being executed.

She added that the militants spoke perfect French and said they were from Al
Qaeda.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 4:47 PM GMT

12 DEAD IN PARIS MASSACRE: Islamic gunmen execute French police officer as he
pleads for his life after terror attack on satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo at
centre of Mohammed cartoon storm

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON, PETER ALLEN, JAY AKBAR and CHRIS PLEASANCE FOR
MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2490 words



     ·    Masked gunmen storm Paris headquarters with AK-47s shouting 'Allahu
          akbar!' and ' the Prophet has been avenged'
     ·    Stalked building asking for people's names before killing the editor
          and cartoonist during weekly editorial meeting
     ·    Horrific footage shows a police officer begging for his life before
          being shot in the head at point-blank range
     ·    Cartoonist Corrine Rey told how she cowered with her young daughter as
          she watched two colleagues gunned down
     ·    Ms Rey, who goes by the name Coco, said men 'spoke French perfectly'
          and 'claimed they were Al Qaeda terrorists'
     ·    Killers fled in stolen car across eastern Paris after a 'mass
          shoot-out' with police officers and remain on the loose
     ·    Newspaper had earlier posted a picture of Islamic State leader Abu
          Bakr al-Baghdadi on its Twitter account
     ·    Publication's offices were previously firebombed in 2011 for
          publishing satirical cartoon of Prophet Mohammed


Twelve people were killed today when gunmen carried out a massacre at the
offices of a notoriously anti-Islamist newspaper in Paris - including a police
officer who was executed as he begged for mercy on the pavement.

Masked attackers brandishing Kalashnikovs burst into the Charlie Hebdo
headquarters, opening fire on staff after seeking out journalists by name.

Clad all in black with hoods and speaking flawless French, the militants forced
one of the cartoonists - who was at the office with her young daughter - to open
the door.

Witnesses said the suspected Al Qaeda gunmen were heard to shout 'the Prophet
has been avenged' and 'Allahu akbar!' - Arabic for 'God is great' - as they
stalked the building.

They headed straight for the paper's editor and cartoonist, Stephane
Charbonnier, killing him and his police bodyguard, who had recruited to protect
him following earlier threats.

They also killed three other renowned cartoonists - men who had regularly
satirised Islam and the Prophet Mohammed - and the newspaper's deputy chief
editor.

Horrific footage emerged showing an injured police officer slumped on the
pavement as two gunmen approached him outside the office minutes later.

In an apparent desperate plea for his life, the officer is seen slowly raising
his hand towards one of the attackers, who responds by callously shooting him in
the head at point-blank range.

Despite a shoot-out with armed officers, the 'calm and highly disciplined' men
were able to escape in a hijacked car and remain on the loose.

Scroll down for videos and audio

By midday, there were reports of up to 12 people dead and 10 wounded, four
critically, including journalists, administrative staff, and police officers who
attended the scene.

President Francois Hollande described the bloodbath as a 'barbaric attack
against France and against journalists' and vowed to hunt down those
responsible.

As well as the AK47 assault rifles, there were also reports of a
rocket-propelled grenade being used in the attack, which took place during the
publication's weekly editorial meeting, meaning all the journalists would have
been present.

A young mother and cartoonist who survived the massacre today told how she had
let the suspected Al Qaeda killers into the office.

Corrine Rey said she had returned from picking up her young daughter from a
kindergarten when she was confronted by two heavily armed men wearing
balaclavas.

'I had gone to pick up my daughter at day care, arriving in front of the
building, where two masked and armed men brutally threatened us,' said Ms Rey,
who draws under the name 'Coco'.

'They said they wanted to go up to the offices, so I tapped in the code,' said
Ms Rey, referring to the digi-code security system on the interphone.

Ms Rey and her daughter hid under a desk, from where they saw two other
cartoonists being executed. 'They shot Wolinski and Cabu,' she said. 'It lasted
five minutes. I had taken refuge under a desk.'

Ms Rey said the men 'spoke French perfectly' and 'claimed they were 'Al Qaeda
terrorists'.

Gunmen reportedly told another witness: 'You say to the media, it was Al Qaeda
in Yemen.'

They are said to have sought out staff 'by name', according to a police source,
adding that Charbonnier, known as Charb, a cartoonist responsible for an
anti-Islam front page, was among those killed.

Mr Charbonnier was included in a 2013 Wanted Dead or Alive for Crimes Against
Islam article published by Inspire, the terrorist propaganda magazine published
by Al Qaeda.

Cartoonists Cabu, Tignous and Wolinski were all also reported dead.

Radio France chief executive Mathieu Gilet later announced on Twitter that a
contributor, Bernard Maris, was another of the victims.

Meanwhile, there were reports of a car explosion outside a synagogue in
Sarcelles, a commune in the northern suburbs of Paris, just hours after the
Charlie Hebdo attack.

The blast, which happened at around 1.30pm GMT, is not thought to be connected
to the massacre, according to Paris Metro which quoted the mayor of Sarcelles.

Florence Pouvil, a salesperson at Lunas France on Rue Nicolas Appert, opposite
the Charlie Hebdo offices, told MailOnline: 'I saw two people with big guns,
like Kalashnikovs outside our office and then we heard firing. We were very
confused.'

'There were two guys who came out of the building and shot everywhere. We hid on
the floor, we were terrified.

'They came from the building opposite with big guns. It has a bunch of different
companies inside. Some of our co-workers work there so we were frightened for
them.

'They weren't just firing inside the Charlie Hebdo offices. They were firing in
the street too.

'We feared for our lives so we hid under our desks so they wouldn't see us. Both
men were dressed in black from head to toe and their faces were covered so I
didn't see them.

'They were wearing military clothes, it wasn't common clothing, like they were
soldiers.'

Benoit Bringer, a journalist at the scene who works next door, took refuge on
the roof of the building, which is in the 11th arrondissement of Paris.

He said: 'There were very many people in the building. We evacuated via the roof
just next to the office. After around ten minutes we saw two heavily armed,
masked men in the street'.

Another witness said: 'There was a loud gunfire and at least one explosion. When
police arrived there was a mass shoot-out. The men got away by car, stealing a
car.'

A police official, Luc Poignant, said: 'It's carnage.'

The latest tweet published by the newspaper's official Twitter account featured
a cartoon of Abu Baghdadi, the leader of Islamic State, who wishes everyone
'good health'.

After the shooting, hundreds of comments were posted on the Charlie Hebdo
Twitter page, with one user, David Rault, writing: 'A sad day for freedom of
expression.'

Charlie Hebdo's editor-in-chief Gerard Biard escaped the carnage because he was
in London.

He told France Inter: 'I am shocked that people can have attacked a newspaper in
France, a secular republic. I don't understand it.

'I don't understand how people can attack a newspaper with heavy weapons. A
newspaper is not a weapon of war.'

Mr Biard said he did not believe the attack was linked to the newspaper's latest
front page, which featured novelist Michel Houellebecq, who has previously
sparked controversy with comments about Islam.

And he said the newspaper had not received threats of violence: 'Not to my
knowledge, and I don't think anyone had received them as individuals, because
they would have talked about it. There was no particular tension at the moment.'



A visibly shocked French President François Hollande, speaking live near the
scene of the shooting, said: 'France is today in shock, in front of a terrorist
attack.

'This newspaper was threatened several rimes in the past and we need to show we
are a united country.

'We have to be firm, and we have to be stand strong with the international
community in the coming days and weeks.

'We are at a very difficult moment following several terrorist attacks. We are
threated because we are a country of freedom

'We will punish the attackers. We will look for the people responsible.'

The Queen today sent her 'sincere condolences to the families of those who have
been killed' in the attack, while Prime Minister David Cameron described the
murders as 'sickening'.

'We stand with the French people in the fight against terror and defending the
freedom of the press.'

The British Foreign Office immediately updated is advice for travellers heading
to Pairs, warning: 'There is a high threat from terrorism.'

It added: 'If you're in Paris or the Ile de France area take extra care and
follow advice of French authorities.'

Luce Lapin and Laurent Leger, who have both worked at Charlie Hebdo, were using
Twitter hours before the attack, with the most recent tweet posted by Lapin
praising cartoonist Cabu.

It read: 'Cabu, a great man! And honest, he doesn't eat foie gras.'

While Leger's made a political point about taxes.

It said: 'Macron [French ministry of economy] wants more billionaires in France,
the same that use tricks for not paying ISF [solidarity tax on wealth].'

A source close to the investigation said men 'armed with a Kalashnikov and a
rocket-launcher' stormed the building in central Paris and 'fire was exchanged
with security forces.'

'100 LASHES IF YOU DON'T DIE OF LAUGHTER': HOW CHARLIE HEBDO HAS BECOME A BYWORD
FOR ANTI-ISLAMISM

Charlie Hebdo has become a byword for offensive statements in France after
taking several highly provocative swipes at Islam.

The newspaper once named Prophet Mohammed as its guest editor, published
cartoons of the holy figure in the nude, and once renamed itself Sharia Hebdo
with the cover slogan '100 lashes if you don't die of laughter'.

The controversy began in 2006 when the publication reprinted now-infamous
cartoons of Prophet Mohammed by Danish artist Kurt Westergaard.

When the images originally appeared they lead to days of protests across the
Middle East and in Western cities. The decision to reprint the images landed the
then-editor in court under anti-terror laws, though he was later acquitted.

The Hebdo offices were burned to the ground in 2011 when attackers used Molotov
cocktails to start a blaze early in the morning of November 2.

There was nobody in the building at the time, and the target was instead thought
to be the newspaper's computer system, which was completely destroyed.

Riot police were forced to stand guard outside the building for days following
the attack, as the editors took a defiant stance, choosing to reprint the
cartoon images multiple times.

In 2012 they again printed cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed as a deliberately
provocative gesture while violent protests were taking place across the Middle
East.

The following year the newspaper's office again had to be surrounded by riot
officers after they published a cartoon booklet depicting the Prohpet naked as a
baby and being pushed in a wheelchair.

On the final page of the booklet there was a note from the editor, Stephane
Charbonnier, saying the images were 'halal' because Muslims had worked on them,
and that they were factually accurate as they had been derived from descriptions
in the Koran.

The satirical publication, widely seen as France's answer to Private Eye, prides
itself on a mixture of tongue-in-cheek reporting and investigative journalism.

Hebdo's current office building has no notices on the door to prevent a repeat
of the attacks that have occurred in the past.

In an interview with De Volkskrant in January 2013, Mr Charbonnier revealed he
had been placed under constant police protection for four months after one of
the cartoon issues was published.

He shrugged off criticism that he was only publishing the images to gain
notoriety for Hebdo, and insisted that he was instead defending the right to
free speech.

Mr Charbonnier pointed out that the newspaper had poked fun at feminism, nuclear
energy and homeland security, but the Islam issues always attracted the most
publicity.

The offices of the same newspaper were burnt down in a petrol attack in 2011
after running a magazine cover of the Prophet Mohammed as a cartoon character.

At the time, the editor-in-chief, Stephane Charbonnier, said Islam could not be
excluded from freedom of the press.

He said: 'If we can poke fun at everything in France, if we can talk about
anything in France apart from Islam or the consequences of Islamism, that is
annoying.'

Mr Charbonnier, also known as Charb, said he did not see the attack on the
newspaper as the work of French Muslims, but of what he called 'idiot
extremists'.

The cover showed Mohammed saying: '100 lashes if you are not dying of laughter'.

This week's Charlie Hebdo also featured the author Houellebecq, whose new novel
imagines Muslims taking over the French government in 2022.

Inside, there was an editorial, attributed to the Prophet Muhammad, and more
cartoons - one showing the Prophet with a clown's red nose.

Depiction of the Prophet is strictly prohibited in Islam, but the newspaper
denied it was trying to be provocative.

A firebomb attack gutted the headquarters of Charlie Hebdo in November 2011
after it put an image of the Prophet Mohammed on its cover.

HOW ATTACK ON CHARLIE HEBDO HQ UNFOLDED

10.28am - The satirical magazine updates its Twitter page with a cartoon of
Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. In it, he wishes everyone 'good
health'.

10.57am - The AFP news agency reports shots have been fired at the French weekly
magazine, on Boulevard Richard Lenoir.

11.17am - Eyewitness accounts emerge showing the immediate aftermath of the
scene.

11.22am - AFP confirms the first death as a result of the shooting. Three
minutes later it confirms the death toll has risen to 10.

11.31am - President Francois Hollande is en-route to visit the magazine's
offices shortly, officials say

11.36am - The death toll is increased to 11 and then to 12.

11.46am - Paris is put on maximum alert following the attacks.

11.49am - Prime Minister David Cameron condemns the attack: 'The murders in
Paris are sickening. We stand with the French people in the fight against terror
and defending the freedom of the press.'

11.54am - Mr Hollande, in an address near the scene of the massacre, says the
shooting was 'undoubtedly a terrorist attack'. He adds: 'We fight threats and we
will punish the attackers.'

11.59am - The first tweet is posted containing the hashtag £JeSuisCharlie in
solidarity with the victims, the magazine and its supporters.

12.26pm - French officials confirm gunmen who carried out the attack are still
at large. At least two criminals are believed to be involved.

12.38pm - The White House condemns Paris attack in the 'strongest possible
terms'.

1.30pm - AFP says dead include three cartoonists and editor-in-chief Stephane
Charbonnier, known as Charb.

2.13pm - French internal minister Bernard Cazeneuve says 'three criminals' were
involved in the attack. They remain at large.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 7:37 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo Paris shooting: Murdered editor said he'd 'prefer to die than live
like a rat';
Stephane Charbonnier - who was killed during today's terror attack - told a
journalist in 2012 that his magazine would continue to be provocative despite
violent threats

BYLINE: By Anthony Bond

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 452 words


Charlie Hebdo editor on threats in 2012: "I prefer to die than live like a rat"

A French magazine editor killed during a brutal terror attack today previously
told how he would "prefer to die than live like a rat".

Stephane Charbonnier, editor-in-chief of Charlie Hebdo, was one of 12 people
murdered today when militants attacked the magazine in Paris.

Three gunmen remain on the loose following the massacre, with police launching a
huge search to capture those responsible.

The magazine has faced violent threats previously for its provocative cartoons
of religious figures and its offices were also firebombed.

FOR ALL THE LATEST ON THE SHOOTING - FOLLOW OUR LIVE BLOG.

During an interview with ABC News in 2012, Mr Charbonnier said the magazine
would continue to be "provocative" despite the threats.

"Our job is not to defend freedom of speech, but without freedom of speech we
are dead....I prefer to die than live like a rat."

He added: "I have not the time to be afraid."

During today's horrific attack, 12 people were killed and four injured. This
included ten members of staff and two policeman.

Gunmen storm Paris magazine in terror attack shouting 'Allahou Akbar'

A video posted online captured two gunmen, clad all in black and carrying
Kalashnikovs, taking fire at a lone policeman in the aftermath of the massacre.

The graphic video shows the victim falling to the ground and holding his hands
up to surrender before apparently being executed with a point blank shot to the
head.

The gunmen, who appear to be professionally trained, then jog back to a black
Citroen car waiting in the middle of the road before driving off.

Other videos from today's horrific attack show the gunmen shouting 'Allahou
Akbar' outside the office of Charlie Hebdo in Paris and bystanders fleeing the
carnage.

The weekly magazine has previously courted controversy with its depiction of
news and current affairs.

French TV channel iTELE quoted a witness as saying he saw the incident from a
building nearby in the heart of the French capital.

"About a half an hour ago two black-hooded men entered the building with
Kalashnikovs (guns)," Benoit Bringer told the station.

"A few minutes later we heard lots of shots," he said, adding that the men fled
the building.

Gunshots and woman runs to hide behind car - first scene video from Paris
shooting

Prime Minister David Cameron joined the condemnation of the attack, saying: "The
murders in Paris are sickening. We stand with the French people in the fight
against terror and defending the freedom of the press."

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said the killings were a "barbaric attack on
freedom of speech".

"My thoughts are with the victims, their families and their colleagues," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 7:13 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo terror attack in Paris sees cartoonists around the world unite
with touching art tributes;
Cartoonists worldwide have produced heartwrenching and profound images in
response to the attack on the Charlie Hebdo offices

BYLINE: By Richard Beech

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 241 words


David Pope

Cartoonists from around the world have drawn heartbreaking images in tribute to
"cartooning colleagues, their families and loved ones" affected by the massacre
at the Charlie Hebdo offices in Paris.

Witnesses at the scene of the attack have said the gunmen claimed they were
acting as part of terrorist group Al Qaeda, and members of the French public
have subsequently taken to the streets to march under the banner "Je suis
Charlie".

#JeSuisCharlie also trended on Twitter, with people around the world using the
hashtag to show their refusal to be silenced by terrorism, and to show their
solidarity with those who sadly lost their lives in the attack.

Prominent cartoonists have produced heartwrenching images defending their right
to freedom of expression.

Le Monde cartoonist Plantu

Plantu

JM:o - tweeted by French magazine Le Plus

Le Plus

"Died for freedom of expression"

Died for freedom

Chilean cartoonist Francisco J. Olea

Francisco

Washington Post cartoonist Ann Telnaes

Ann Telnaes

Parisian cartoonist Boulet

Boulet

Jean Julien

Jean Julien

Dutch cartoonist Ruben L. Oppenheimer

Ruben L Oppenheimer

Australian cartoonist David Pope

David Pope

Indian cartoonist Neelabh Banerjee

Neelabh Banerjee

Parisian cartoonist Loic Secheresse

Loic Secheresse

Argentine cartoonist Bernardo Erlich

Argentine cartoonist Bernardo Erlich

Le Monde cartoonist Martin Vidberg

Martin Vidberg

"Today I am a cartoonist, today I am a journalist, today I draw for Charlie
Hebdo."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 2:23 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo terror attack: Sickening moment ' policeman executed by militants
as he held up hands in surrender;
Footage captures gunmen shooting a man to the ground, then firing again at his
head in what appears to be a cold-blooded murder on the streets of Paris

BYLINE: By Steve Robson

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 613 words


WARNING EXTREME CONTENT: Gunmen execute French agent before making their getaway
from the Paris shooting scene

More chilling footage has emerged from the shooting attack on French magazine
Charlie Hebdo appearing to show militants executing a policeman in cold blood.

At least 12 people have been killed and four injured, including ten members of
staff and two policeman.

FOR ALL THE LATEST ON THE SHOOTING - FOLLOW OUR LIVE BLOG.

A video posted online captured two gunmen, clad all in black and carrying
Kalashnikovs, taking fire at a lone policeman in the aftermath of the massacre.

The graphic video shows the victim falling to the ground and holding his hands
up to surrender before apparently being executed with a point blank shot to the
head.

The gunmen, who appear to be professionally trained, then jog back to a black
Citroen car waiting in the middle of the road before driving off.

Other videos from today's horrific attack show the gunmen shouting 'Allahou
Akbar' outside the office of Charlie Hebdo in Paris and bystanders fleeing the
carnage.

Gunmen storm Paris magazine in terror attack shouting 'Allahou Akbar'

The weekly magazine has previously courted controversy with its depiction of
news and current affairs.

French TV channel iTELE quoted a witness as saying he saw the incident from a
building nearby in the heart of the French capital.

"About a half an hour ago two black-hooded men entered the building with
Kalashnikovs (guns)," Benoit Bringer told the station.

"A few minutes later we heard lots of shots," he said, adding that the men fled
the building.

Gunshots and woman runs to hide behind car - first scene video from Paris
shooting

Prime Minister David Cameron joined the condemnation of the attack, saying: "The
murders in Paris are sickening. We stand with the French people in the fight
against terror and defending the freedom of the press."

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said the killings were a "barbaric attack on
freedom of speech".

"My thoughts are with the victims, their families and their colleagues," he
said.

Charlie Hebdo has launched a series of attacks on Muslim extremism and the last
tweet on its profile page @Charlie-Hebdo-, sent about an hour before the
shootings, included a satirical cartoon of Islamic State leader Abu Bakr
al-Baghdadi.

In it he wishes everyone "good health".

Describing the scene, police official Luc Poignant told BFM TV: "It's carnage,"

In December 2011, the Charlie Hebdo office was firebombed after the magazine
said the Prophet Muhammad would be editor-in-chief of its next issue.

The scene of the shooting has now been cordoned off by police as they chase the
attackers who are still at large.

President of the National Assembly Claude Bartolone said: "Scenes of horror at
the offices of Charlie Hebdo. My solidarity is with the victims."

Charlie Hebdo is a satirical comedy weekly newspaper and features cartoons and
irreverent stories and frequently lampoons religions of all types.

It first ran from 1969 to 1981, when it folded, but the publication was
resurrected in 1992.

The editor is Stephane Charbonnier. It is believed he is among the 12 dead.

There have been a number of shootings in the France over the past few years. in
March 2012 Mohammed Merah, 23, a French man of Algerian descent, shot and killed
a rabbi, two of his children, and another child at a Jewish school, in Toulouse,
France, Police believe he had earlier shot and killed three paratroopers.

Merah said he was a member of Al Qaeda and that he was seeking revenge for the
killing of Palestinian children.

Charlie Hebdo shooting: As many as 10 people are feared to have been killed
after gunmen burst into the office of the satirical magazine

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                           January 7, 2015 Wednesday

Cameron to be briefed on Paris terror attack that left 12 dead at offices of
French satirical magazine

BYLINE: Matt Westcott

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 914 words


PRIME Minister David Cameron will have a "full intelligence briefing" on the
Paris attack from security agencies later today, and stands ready to offer any
assistance needed by France, Downing Street said.

Twelve people were shot dead in a terror attack at the offices of a French
satirical weekly which angered some Muslims after publishing crude caricatures
of Islam's prophet Mohammed.

Masked gunmen stormed the headquarters of Charlie Hebdo, shooting
indiscriminately.

The gunmen, who later fled, were heard shouting "Allahu Akbar" - God is greatest
- as they opened fire.

Video footage taken by terrified witnesses from windows and on rooftops
overlooking the scene showed the terrorists shooting one of their victims, who
appears to be in a police uniform, in cold blood at close range as he lay
already injured on a pavement of the otherwise deserted Paris street.

French president Francois Hollande said the "terrorist attack" had left France
in a state of shock.

He said: "We are looking for the perpetrators of this crime.

"France is today in shock, in front of a terrorist attack.

"This newspaper was threatened several times in the past. We need to show that
we are a united country. We have to be firm, we have to be strong.

"We are at a very difficult moment. Several terrorist attacks have been impeded
during the previous weeks. We are threatened because we are a country of
freedom.

"We fight threats and we will punish the attackers."

Mr Cameron joined the condemnation of the attack, saying: "The murders in Paris
are sickening. We stand with the French people in the fight against terror and
defending the freedom of the press."

Charlie Hebdo has launched a series of attacks on Muslim extremism and the last
tweet on its profile page @Charlie_Hebdo_, sent about an hour before the
shootings, included a satirical cartoon of Islamic State leader Abu Bakr
al-Baghdadi.

In it he wishes everyone "good health".

The attackers, who fled in a dark-coloured hatchback, reportedly shouted "We
have avenged the prophet".

Witness David Chour told the BBC from close to the scene: "A lot of people from
the shops heard a lot of gunshots.

"Two guys entered with Kalashnikov guns and shot the people. I haven't seen them
directly but people around said they just went away.

"People are very shocked."

As the manhunt for the attackers began, the massacre prompted the French
government to raise the national security alert system to "alerte attentat", the
highest level, across the entire Ile-de-France region around Paris.

The shootings in the capital come shortly after an outbreak of opportunist
attacks in crowded spaces across France.

Late last month, a van burst into a Christmas market in the western city of
Nantes, injuring 10 people before the driver reportedly began stabbing himself.

In the eastern city of Dijon, a driver reportedly shouting ''God is great'' in
Arabic ran down several people, injuring 13 before coming to a stop.

Those incidents came after an attacker knifed three police officers in Tours
before he was shot dead by one of the officers.

The French government denied links between the attacks but announced plans to
further raise security in public spaces, including the deployment of around 300
soldiers.

Repeated shots could be heard in video footage of today's attack filmed by
witnesses from various vantage points.

One clip shows what appears to be a police officer being shot at close range,
before two masked men, dressed in black, get into a car.

In another clip, a passer-by hearing the attack dives for cover between two
cars.

Witnesses at the magazine headquarters described a scene of carnage, with bullet
holes and smashed windows.

Gilles Boulanger, who works in the same building as the Charlie Hebdo offices,
likened the scene to a war zone.

He told the BBC: "A neighbour called to warn me that there were armed men in the
building and that we had to shut all the doors.

"And several minutes later there were several shots heard in the building from
automatic weapons firing in all directions.

"So then we looked out of the window and saw the shooting was on Boulevard
Richard-Lenoir, with the police. It was really upsetting. You'd think it was a
war zone."

Local news outlet Le Point has reported that cartoonists Jean Cabu, Stephane
Charbonnier and Bernard "Tignous" Verlhac are among the dead.

Charlie Hebdo's website lists "Charb" as its publication director, and "Cabu" as
artistic director.

Mr Charbonnier was included in a 2013 Wanted Dead or Alive for Crimes Against
Islam article published by Inspire, the terrorist propaganda magazine published
by al Qaida.

Charlie Hebdo's editor-in-chief Gerard Biard has told France Inter: "I don't
understand how people can attack a newspaper with heavy weapons. A newspaper is
not a weapon of war."

Ian Hislop, editor of British satirical magazine Private Eye, said the victims
of the Charlie Hebdo shooting "paid a very high price for exercising their comic
liberty".

The dead are believed to include editorial staff members Jean Cabu, Stephane
"Charb" Charbonnier, Bernard "Tignous" Verlhac and Bernard Maris.

In a statement, journalist and writer Mr Hislop said: "I am appalled and shocked
by this horrific attack - a murderous attack on free speech in the heart of
Europe.

"I offer my condolences to the families and friends of those killed - the
cartoonists, journalists and those who were trying to protect them.

"They paid a very high price for exercising their comic liberty."

He added: "Very little seems funny today."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 11:48 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo shooting: 'several terror attacks' foiled in recent weeks, says
Francois Hollande;
French president confirms 11 dead in terror attack following "several threats"
to Charlie Hebdo magazine and numerous foiled attacks

BYLINE: By Andrew Marszal

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 294 words


- Paris Charlie Hebdo attack: latest

Several terrorist attacks have been foiled in France in recent weeks before the
attack on Charlie Hebdo magazine's offices, Francois Hollande has said.

The French president confirmed the shooting in Paris's 11th arrondissement on
Wednesday was a terror attack, and said the hunt for the gunmen was under way.

"We are at a very difficult moment. Several terrorist attacks have been impeded
during the previous weeks. We are threatened because we are a country of
freedom," said Mr Hollande.

"We fight threats and we will punish the attackers. Eleven people are dead. We
will look for the people responsible."

The French president was talking from the scene of the shooting, in which 11
people were killed by gunmen said to have been wielding machine guns before
fleeing the scene.

The French government will hold an emergency meeting at the Elysee Palace and
the security level in Paris have been raised.

Meanwhile, David Cameron condemned the "barbaric attack", and said Britain
"stands united with the French people" against terror.

He told the House of Commons: "I'm sure the whole House will want to join me in
condemning the barbaric attack on an office of a magazine in Paris, in which it
is report ten or more people may have been killed.

Interactive: Paris shooting

"While details are still unclear, I'm know that this House and this country
stands united with the French people in opposition to all forms of terrorism,
and we stand squarely for free speech and democracy. These people will never
take us off those values."

Ed Miliband said he felt "horror at this outrage", adding: "We stand in
solidarity with the people of France against this evil. We are determined to
defeat them."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 7:58 PM GMT

Paris shooting at Charlie Hebdo office: how terrorist attack unfolded;
Twelve people have been killed in France's worst terrorist attack for 50 years.
This is how the shooting at the offices of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo
unfolded

BYLINE: By Gordon Rayner Chief Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1045 words


A terrorist attack on the offices of the French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo
(Charlie Weekly) has left 12 people dead in the country's worst terrorist
incident for 50 years. Gunmen shouting "Allahu akbar", or God is Great, claimed
to be from al-Qaeda as they picked off their targets. This is how the attack
unfolded.

At around 10.20am, two hooded gunmen pull up in a black Citroen C3 and storm the
offices of Charlie Hebdo in Rue Nicolas Appert in Paris's 11th arrondissement.
As they approach, they reportedly say to a man in the street: "Tell the media
this is from al-Qaeda in Yemen." According to one report, they initially go to
the wrong building - No.11 - before realising the magazine is based next door.

The magazine's previous premises were burned down in 2011 after it published
cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed. Reporters from an office next door, who take
refuge on the roof, report that the men are armed with Kalashnikov assault
rifles and a rocket launcher.

Corinne Rey, a cartoonist for Charlie Hebdo, is forced at gunpoint to enter the
security code for the front door. "When I arrived in front of the door of the
building of the paper, two men hooded and armed brutally threatened us," she
says later. "They wanted to come in, go up. I pressed in the code."

The gunmen calmly enter the second floor editorial office, "commando style",
reportedly seeking out journalists by name and calling their surnames in turn as
they open fire, killing ten people and injuring at least five. The senior staff
had been in a weekly editorial meeting at the time, ahead of the magazine going
to press, as was intended, later in the day.

The magazine's publication director, Stephane Charbonnier, known as Charb
(above), who had a price put on his head by al-Qaeda in 2013, is reported to be
among the dead, along with cartoonists Jean Cabu, Bernard "Tignous" Verlhac and
Georges Wolinski.

Ms Rey says: "They shot on Wolinski, Cabu... it lasted 5 minutes... I had hidden
under my desk. They spoke French perfectly... they said they were al-Qaeda."

Benoit Bringer, a journalist who works next door for the agency Premieres Lignes
Tele, tells French TV: "Two black-hooded men entered the building with
Kalashnikovs. A few minutes later we heard lots of shots." He says the gunmen
left the building after ten minutes. According to one report, they shouted: "We
have killed Charlie Hebdo! We have avenged the Prophet Mohammed!"

Three policemen on pushbikes are the first responders to arrive at the scene,
but they take refuge until backup arrives. "I saw [the gunmen] leaving and
shooting," said one witness. "They were wearing masks. These guys were serious.
At first I thought it was special forces chasing drug traffickers or something."

When a police car blocks the gunmen's escape route down the narrow street, the
gunmen open fire, shouting "Allahu Akhbar", or God is great, as they do so.

One of the journalists taking refuge on the roof next door to the Charlie Hebdo
office takes a video of the incident. The rear winscreen of the Citroen appears
to have shattered.

A police car is later photographed with 15 bullet holes in its windscreen and
one in its bonnet. It is unclear whether it is the same car seen in the video.

The gunmen drive away, wounding a policeman, then knocking over and wounding
several pedestrians. A short while later they stop in Boulevard Richard Lenoir,
a residential street, and get out of the car to attack a policeman.

In a video shot from an upstairs window, and posted on YouTube, the hooded
killers get out of the Citroen, holding automatic rifles. The driver sidesteps
around a white rental van and fires three shots in quick succession, hitting the
policeman, who is left lying on the pavement.

A further five shots are fired, apparently by the second gunman, as the
policeman rolls onto his side, trying to protect himself. The two gunmen run
towards him, and the stricken policeman turns and looks over his shoulder to see
them approaching, then holds up his right hand the first gunman runs past him
and appears to shoot him in the head with a single shot from no more than a foot
away. The policeman stops moving.

Holding their guns across their chests in military style, the gunmen jog back to
the Citroen, shouting to each other. One holds up a finger, as if in triumph.

The passenger stoops down to pick up a shoe he had lost as he got out of the
car, and the gunmen, who seem not to be in a hurry, get back in and drive off.

The gunmen drive north and abandon the Citroen in Rue de Meaux, then hijack
another vehicle before leaving central Paris. Police confirm two policeman have
been killed, taking the death toll to 12. One of the dead policemen is later
reported to be Charb's bodyguard, assigned to him after prior death threats.

At the scene of the attack, paramedics evacuate the wounded as police describe
the scene inside as "carnage". The number of wounded is reported to be 20, with
five critical.

Wandrille Lanos, a TV reporter who works across the road and one of the first
people to enter the Charlie Hebdo office after the attack, says: "As we
progressed into the office, we saw that the number of casualties was very high.
There was a lot of people dead on the floor, and there was blood everywhere."

President Francois Hollande rushes to the scene. "An act of indescribable
barbarity has just been committed today in Paris," he says. "Measures have been
taken to find those responsible, they will be hunted for as long as it takes to
catch them and bring them to justice."

With the gunmen still at large, Paris is placed on maximum terror alert, with
police and military protection at other newspaper offices that could be targets,
as well as tourist sites, department stores and metro stations.

After the black Citroen is discovered abandoned in a Paris street, police
experts begin a detailed examination in a desperate search for clues that might
uncover the identity of the gunmen and help point to where they could be. The
French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve says three attackers are being
sought.

Shortly before 3pm, a car is found burning outside a Paris synagogue. It is
unclear whether the car is the second one used by the gunmen or even whether it
is related to the terrorist attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 6:09 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo cartoonist murdered in Paris terrorist attack was on al-Qaeda
wanted list;
Stéphane Charbonnier had received death threats and lived under police
protection

BYLINE: By Victoria Ward

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 432 words


Stéphane Charbonnier, the Charlie Hebdo publishing director and cartoonist, was
on an al Qaeda "wanted" list and lived under police protection.

The editor, who used the pen name Charb, defended the Prophet Muhammad cartoons
that caused outrage in the Muslim world.

In 2013, his name was included in a Wanted Dead or Alive for Crimes Against
Islam article published by Inspire, the terrorist propaganda magazine published
by al Qaida.

The banned magazine has been the inspiration behind the majority of successful
and foiled Islamist terror plots around the world since its first issue in 2010.

MI5 believe it was read by plotters in seven out of ten major attack plots
foiled in the UK in that time.

Mr Charbonnier is believed to have been killed alongside 11 of his colleagues
when armed gunmen stormed the magazine's Paris offices.

Richard Malka, Charlie Hebdo's lawyer, said the offices had been "under police
protection since the Mohammed cartoon affair right up until today."

He added: "Charb was under special high-profile figure protection. The threats
were constant. It is frightening."

However, one of Mr Charbonnier's colleagues suggested he had been relaxed about
the threats.

"Charb was under police protection but he moved around without his policemen,
which was a sign he wasn't worried all the time," the journalist told Le Monde.

In 2007, Charlie Hebdo reprinted 12 controversial cartoons of the Prophet
Mohammad that were first shown in a Danish newspaper.

The magazine was sued for incitement to racism by two Islamic groups in France,
but was cleared by a Paris court.

Mr Charbonnier insisted that the publication of Mohammad caricatures was no
provocation, but a signal that free speech was alive and well in the country.

He also said the paper would not stop criticising whatever it wanted.

In 2011, the magazine published a special edition entitled Charia Hebdo that
"invited" Muhammad to be its guest editor and put his caricature on the cover.

A year later, the magazine published more Muhammad drawings amid an uproar over
an anti-Muslim film. Mr Charbonnier drew that week's front page.

The editor and cartoonist said in 2012: "Muhammad isn't sacred to me. I don't
blame Muslims for not laughing at our drawings. I live under French law. I don't
live under Quranic law.

"The freedom of the press, is that a provocation? I'm not asking strict Muslims
to read Charlie Hebdo, just like I wouldn't go to a mosque to listen to speeches
that go against everything I believe."

He also told French journalists the caricatures would shock "only those who will
want to be shocked".

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 5:03 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo attack: the worst terror attacks in Europe since 1995;
A gun assault on the Paris offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo on
Wednesday was the deadliest terrorist attack in France's recent history - and
the latest in several deadly attacks in Europe since 1995

BYLINE: By AFP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 504 words


- Paris Charlie Hebdo attack: latest news

- January 25, 1995 - FRANCE: A bomb in an RER commuter train explodes at the
Saint Michel station in Paris, killing eight people.

It is the worst of nine attacks generally attributed to Algerian extremists that
wounded more than 200 that summer.

- August 15, 1998 - BRITAIN: Amid ongoing violence in Northern Ireland, a car
bomb in Omagh, in the province of Ulster, kills 29 people and wounds 220. The
attack is claimed by a splinter group of the Irish Republican Army (IRA) that
opposes a fledgling peace process.

- October 11, 2002 - FINLAND: A bomb attack at a shopping mall in Vantaa, near
Helsinki, kills six people, plus the bomber, a 19-year-old student. More than 80
are wounded.

- March 11, 2004 - SPAIN: A string of rush-hour bomb attacks on four trains in
Madrid and its suburbs kill 191 people and wound almost 2,000 others. It is
claimed by a group close to Al-Qaeda and is the worst in Europe since a Pan Am
plane explodes in 1998 over Lockerbie, Scotland, killing 270 people.

- July 7, 2005 - BRITAIN: Four suicide attacks at rush hour on three trains and
a London bus kill 56 people and wound some 700. They are claimed by a group
close to Al-Qaeda.

- July 22, 2011 - NORWAY: Right-wing extremist Anders Behring Breivik plants a
bomb near the government's offices in Oslo, killing eight people, and later
opens fire on a camp of youths close to the Labour party on the island of
Utoeya, killing 69 others.

Breivik is sentenced to 21 years in prison, a period that could be extended as
long as he is deemed a danger to society.

- March 11/19, 2012 - FRANCE: Mohamed Merah, 23, shoots three soldiers dead in
Toulouse, and Montauban, southern France, before killing three students and a
teacher at a Jewish school in Toulouse.

Merah is killed on March 22 in a shootout following a long siege of his
apartment by French police.

- July 18, 2012 - BULGARIA: Five Israeli tourists are killed at the airport of
the Black Sea resort of Burgas when a bomb placed in the bus carrying them to
their hotel explodes. The bus driver and the man who laid the bag carrying the
bomb are also killed.

May 22, 2013 - BRITAIN: Soldier Lee Rigby, 25, is hacked to death by two men
near an army barracks in south-east London. Witnesses say the attackers
encouraged them to film the scene as they shout "Allah Akbar" (God is greatest)
before being injured and arrested by the police.

- May 24, 2014: - BELGIUM: Four people, including two Israeli tourists, are
killed when a gunman attacks the Jewish Museum in Brussels. French police arrest
Franco-Algerian Mehdi Nemmouche, 29, in Marseille, southern France six days
later and hand him over to Belgian officials in late July.

Nemmouche has been charged with "murder in a terrorist context".

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 2:10 PM GMT

Paris Charlie Hebdo attack: This is the worst act of terrorism in France for 50
years;
The deadly attack in Paris is a reminder that the terrorists only need to get
lucky once, writes Con Coughlin

BYLINE: By Con Coughlin

LENGTH: 346 words


- Paris Charlie Hebdo attack: latest news

The appalling terror attack on the offices of the French magazine Charlie Hebdo,
in which at least 12 people have been killed, is evidence of that old
counter-terrorism cliché - the terrorists only need to get lucky once.

In what could be France's worst terrorist outrage for 50 years, the attack on
the magazine, which has featured prominently on al-Qaeda's hit-list since it
published controversial cartoons depicting the Prophet Mohammed in 2011, was
clearly well-planned and executed, to the extent that the terrorists were able
to make good their escape in a black Citroen.

Armed with Kalashnikovs and a rocket launcher, the terrorists apparently planned
to attack just as the magazine's main editorial team was having its weekly
planning meeting. Among those reported to have been killed in the attack is
Charb (Stephane Charbonnier), a famous cartoonist.

By any standard, the Paris attack is one of the worst terrorist atrocities
carried out in Europe for many years. It is certainly one of the most serious
Paris has suffered since the attacks on the metro in the Nineties.

It also comes against a background of deepening concern within European
intelligence agencies that the growing strength of Islamist militants in Iraq
and Syria, where they are attempting to establish an independent Islamic State,
has increased the threat of terror attacks being carried out in Europe. French
President François Hollande revealed that, prior to the attack, the French
security forces had already thwarted several possible attacks planned in France.

Similarly, in Britain, MI5 officers have in recent weeks initiated a number of
raids aimed at disrupting Islamist terror networks that were believed to be
planning attacks on the British mainland, including attacks on military
installations.

Certainly, no matter how hard the intelligence and security services try to
prevent such atrocities, there is always the possibility that one group will
slip through the net and carry out its barbarous agenda.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 1:33 PM GMT

Paris Charlie Hebdo attack: Francois Hollande condemns act of terror against
free speech;
French President Francois Hollande says country is in a "state of shock"
following attack on the Paris office of Charlie Hebdo, adding "we have to be
strong"

BYLINE: By Charlotte Krol video source APTN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 186 words


A manhunt is underway in Paris for two masked gunmen with AK47s who attacked a
magazine office in the capital on Wednesday morning .

Employees at the Charlie Hebdo, a French satirical magazine known for publishing
controversial cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed in 2011, fled for their lives
after the heavily armed men burst in.

French president Francois Hollande said: "at this moment we have 11 people
killed, four critically injured. This is not the final figure...France is today
in shock, in front of a terrorist attack. This newspaper was threatened several
times in the past. We need to show that we are a united country. We have to be
firm, we have to be strong."

The attackers reportedly escaped in a black Citroen DS, wounding a policemen,
then knocking over and wounding "several" pedestrians.

The controversial satirical magazine has previously been firebombed in
retaliation for naming the Prophet Mohammed as its "editor-in-chief" . The
latest tweet published by the magazine's official twitter account appeared to be
a cartoon of Abu Baghdadi, the leader of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
(Isil).

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 1:28 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo shooting: 'several terror attacks' foiled in recent weeks, says
Francois Hollande;
French president confirms 11 dead in terror attack following "several threats"
to Charlie Hebdo magazine and numerous foiled attacks

BYLINE: By Andrew Marszal

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 277 words


Several terrorist attacks have been foiled in France in recent weeks before the
attack on Charlie Hebdo magazine's offices, Francois Hollande has said.

The French president confirmed the shooting in Paris's 11th arrondissement on
Wednesday was a terror attack, and said the hunt for the gunmen was under way.

"We are at a very difficult moment. Several terrorist attacks have been impeded
during the previous weeks. We are threatened because we are a country of
freedom," said Mr Hollande.

"We fight threats and we will punish the attackers. Eleven people are dead. We
will look for the people responsible."

The French president was talking from the scene of the shooting, in which 11
people were killed by gunmen said to have been wielding machine guns before
fleeing the scene.

The French government will hold an emergency meeting at the Elysee Palace and
the security level in Paris have been raised.

Meanwhile, David Cameron condemned the "barbaric attack", and said Britain
"stands united with the French people" against terror.

He told the House of Commons: "I'm sure the whole House will want to join me in
condemning the barbaric attack on an office of a magazine in Paris, in which it
is report ten or more people may have been killed.

"While details are still unclear, I'm know that this House and this country
stands united with the French people in opposition to all forms of terrorism,
and we stand squarely for free speech and democracy. These people will never
take us off those values."

Ed Miliband said he felt "horror at this outrage", adding: "We stand in
solidarity with the people of France against this evil. We are determined to
defeat them."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 4:48 PM GMT

World leaders line up to condemn Paris terror attack

BYLINE: Times Staff

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 1678 words


World leaders and media rights groups condemned the "barbaric" shooting at a
Paris weekly Wednesday which left 12 dead, dubbing it an act of terror and an
attack on free speech.

France's EU allies lined up to offer their support after gunmen armed with
Kalashnikov automatic rifles and a rocket-launcher opened fire at the offices of
French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, in what President Francois Hollande
said was a "terrorist attack".

President Barack Obama offered help to French officials to pursue terrorists
responsible for what he is calling a "horrific shooting" at a satirical weekly
newspaper.

In a statement, Mr Obama offered thoughts and prayers for the people of France,
which he called "America's oldest ally".

"France, and the great city of Paris where this outrageous attack took place,
offer the world a timeless example that will endure well beyond the hateful
vision of these killers," he said.

A spokesman for President Putin of Russia said: "Moscow resolutely condemns
terrorism in all its forms."

Omer Celik, the Turkish culture and tourism minister, said it would only serve
to deepen religious tensions in Europe.

"I reject any equation of Islam and this cowardly attack. One cannot defend
Islam with such a massacre," he said.

"This attack aims to reinforce the negative perception of foreigners and Muslims
in a climate in Europe of growing Islamophobia and racism."

The Committee to Protect Journalists said it was a "brazen assault on free
expression in the heart of Europe", while Reporters Without Borders called it a
"black day".

Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, called it "despicable".

"What has happened in Paris today is indeed a barbarous attack against all of
the values we share. All of us that live in Europe strongly condemn these
attacks and our thoughts go out to the French people and particularly to those
who have lost loved one in this horrendous attack.

"This is an attack against the values we all hold dear, values by which we
stand, values of freedom of the press, freedom in general and the dignity of
man. And again our thoughts are with the French people with all of those who
have lost loved one in this horrific attack and everything we can do to help the
French we will certainly do."

Matteo Renzi, the Italian prime minister, expressed his "horror and dismay",
while saying that "violence will always lose out against freedom".

President Hollande said: "France is in shock. There is no doubt this is a
terrorist attack. It was against a newspaper that was, moreover, protected," he
said. "This was an act of exceptional barbarity, against a newspaper, a symbol
of liberty."

He said that the perpetrators would be "pursued as long as it takes to bring
them to justice" and called for national unity and calm.

Marine Le Pen, leader of the far-right National Front, denounced the attack as
"undoubtedly a terrorist attack committed by Islamist fundamentalists".

Nicolas Sarkozy, the former president, called for "absolute firmness" in the
face of the Islamist threat to France. "This is an abject action which is an
affront to the human conscience," he said. "It is a direct and savage attack
against one of our most cherished republican values: the freedom of thought."

The British extremist cleric Anjem Choudary appeared to condone the shooting in
a series of posts on Twitter, including one which said: "If freedom of
expression can be sacrificed for criminalising incitement & hatred, Why not for
insulting the Prophet of Allah?"

David Cameron described the murders of 12 people in Paris as sickening.
Condemning the attack on Charlie Hebdo, he said on Twitter: "We stand with the
French people in the fight against terror and defending the freedom of the
press."

He told MPs: "This House and this country stands united with the French people
in our opposition to all forms of terrorism and we stand squarely for free
speech and democracy. These people will never be able to take us off those
values."

Nick Clegg, the deputy prime minister, said the killings were a "barbaric attack
on freedom of speech". "My thoughts are with the victims, their families and
their colleagues," he said.

Ed Miliband said he felt "horror and outrage" about the attack after Mr Cameron
led condemnation in the Commons at prime minister's questions. "We stand in
solidarity with the people of France against this evil terrorist attack by
people intent on attacking our democratic way of life and freedom of speech,"
the Labour leader said.

"We are united in our determination to beat them."

Boris Johnson, the London mayor, said on Twitter: "Shocked and appalled by
senseless attack at Charlie Hebdo - London stands with Paris and the people of
France against this horrific scourge."

Speaking on a visit to Farsley, near Leeds, Mr Johnson added: "I think
everybody's thoughts in london will be with the people of Paris and obviously
with the victims and their families and the staff and employees of Charlie
Hebdo, the magazine that I know well.

"I think it's appalling that this happened. It's clearly an attack on free
speech and it's vital that in great cities like london or Paris that we don't
give ground.

"Obviously I'm very concerned by reports that this was a very well-planned
operation, that a great deal of thought had gone into it.

"We are considering what implications there may be for Britain and for London
about people coming back from the Isis, Isil area, whether there is any
indication there that it could be related to that phenomenon."

President Obama's spokesman said US officials had been in close contact with the
French authorities and stood ready to help the investigation.

Josh Earnest told CNN that the French have been "stalwart allies" in the US
fight against Islamic State extremists, adding: "We know they are not going to
be cowed by this terrible act."

"Everybody here at the White House are with the families of those who were
killed or injured in this attack," he said.

Matthew Barzun, the US ambassador to London, said on Twitter: "Terrible news
from Charlie Hebdo in Paris. My thoughts and prayers are with the families of
the victims."

Jens Stoltenberg, the UN secretary-general, said: "I strongly condemn the
terrorist attack at the office of the Charlie Hebdo magazine in Paris today.
This was a barbaric act and an outrageous attack on press freedom. My thoughts
are with the victims and their families. We stand in full solidarity with our
ally France.

"All Nato allies stand together in the fight against terrorism. Terrorism in all
its forms and manifestations can never be tolerated or justified."

The Campaigners Index on Censorship condemned the attack. Jodie Ginsberg, its
chief executive, said: "The ability to express ourselves freely is fundamental
to a free society.

"This includes the freedom to publish, to satirise, to joke, to criticise, even
when that might cause offence to others. Those who wish to silence free speech
must never be allowed to prevail."

Jean-Claude Juncker, the European Commission president, said he was "profoundly
shocked" by the carnage.

In a statement released in French by the European Commission, he said: "I am
profoundly shocked by the brutal and inhumane attack on the Charlie Hebdo
premises. It is an intolerable act, a barbaric act that concerns us all, as
humans, and as Europeans.

"My thoughts go out to the victims and their families. I wish to express, both
personally and on behalf of the European Commission, our greatest solidarity
with France."

Kate Allen, the director of Amnesty International UK, said: "This is a hideous
attack on free speech not just in Paris but everywhere. Journalists are
frequently on the front line and this is another tragic reminder of the deadly
risks they so often face."

Baroness Sayeeda Warsi - who was Britain's first female Muslim cabinet minister
- said: "There is no justification for this callous act. Thoughts and prayers
are with the victims and their families."

Amjad Bashir, Ukip's communities spokesman, said: "This is a horrendous crime
which should be condemned unreservedly. Those that killed these totally innocent
people are disgusting criminals, they are animals.

"These acts of extremism are horrific and totally unjustified, and I condemn
them absolutely.

"There are no circumstances and no causes that would make an attack like this
justifiable, and, however the attackers try to dress this up, it was an act of
pure evil."

In a message on Twitter, Anne Hidalgo, the mayor of Paris, said: "I have a
feeling of absolute horror at the attack which has just been perpetrated against
Charlie Hebdo. All my compassion to these victims, martyrs of liberty and of the
freedom of the press, a pillar of the Republic.

"In the name of Parisians, as well as myself personally, I assure the families
and friends of my total solidarity. Our country, our city and our democracy are
mourning this massacre.

"We must respond to this act by united around the principles of the Republic."

Salman Rushdie, the writer issued this statement: "Religion, a medieval form of
unreason, when combined with modern weaponry becomes a real threat to our
freedoms. This religious totalitarianism has caused a deadly mutation in the
heart of Islam and we see the tragic consequences in Paris today. I stand with
Charlie Hebdo, as we all must, to defend the art of satire, which has always
been a force for liberty and against tyranny, dishonesty and stupidity. "Respect
for religion" has become a code phrase meaning "fear of religion." Religions,
like all other ideas, deserve criticism, satire, and, yes, our fearless
disrespect.

Gerard Biard, Charlie Hebdo's editor-in-chief, who was in London at the time of
the attack, spoke of his shock.

He told France Inter: "I don't understand how people can attack a newspaper with
heavy weapons. A newspaper is not a weapon of war."

He said the magazine had not received threats of violence: "Not to my knowledge,
and I don't think anyone had received them as individuals, because they would
have talked about it. There was no particular tension at the moment."

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                     January 7, 2015 Wednesday 2:41 PM  EST

PRIME MINISTER CAMERON'S AND CHANCELLOR MERKEL STATEMENT ON PARIS TERRORIST
ATTACK

LENGTH: 292 words


LONDON, Jan. 7 -- The Office of Prime Minister, First Lord of the Treasury and
Minister for the Civil Service issued the following press release:

Prime Minister David Cameron's and Chancellor Merkel's statement following the
terrorist attack in Paris today.

Responding to the news, the Prime Minister said:

What has happened in Paris is an appalling terrorist outrage and I know that
everyone in Britain will want to stand with the French government and with the
French people at this time. We must never allow the values that we hold dear, of
democracy, of freedom of speech to be damaged by these terrorists. We must stand
against what they have done and I feel huge sympathy for everyone in France,
particularly for the families of those who have lost loved ones. We will stand
with you at this time and I know that Chancellor Merkel will absolutely agree
with me that everyone should combine to condemn completely this outrage and
stand with the French people at this time.

Chancellor Merkel said:

What has happened in Paris today is indeed a barbarous attack against all of the
values we share. All of us that live in Europe strongly condemn these attacks
and our thoughts go out to the French people and particularly to those who have
lost loved ones in this horrendous attack. This is an attack against the values
we all hold dear, values by which we stand, values of freedom of the press,
freedom in general and the dignity of man. And again our thoughts are with the
French people with all of those who have lost loved ones in this horrific attack
and everything we can do to help the French we will certainly do." For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2015 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Middle East press condemns Paris attack, but blames West for terrorism

LENGTH: 596 words


The banner headlines of most Arabic newspapers across the Middle East on 8
January carried the news of the attack on the French satirical Charlie Hebdo
weekly with governmental condemnation of front pages, but commentaries carried
-along with solidarity- blame to the West, including France, for positions
regarding terrorism.

Some newspapers accused the West of "funding terrorism" and urged it to
reconsider its plans.

Eight journalists, including the magazine editor, died along with others when
masked men armed with assault rifles storm the weekly's offices in Paris.

"Nobody is safe"

"Terrorism of the Islamic State hits France," Egypt's private Al-Yawm al-Sabi
daily said in a large-font headline on the front page.

In its editorial, the same newspaper said that terrorists in France and Europe
"succeeded in intercepting the security and intelligence barriers" as well as
"brainwashing" the minds of young people who were raised in democratic
societies.

The paper also argued that Charlie Hebdo was attacked because it insulted the
head of the Islamic State (IS, also known as ISIS/ISIL) Abu-Bakr al-Baghdadi
rather than Islam, saying: "Terrorism has become an international menace that
requires a huge confrontation as nobody is safe."

"Feeding terrorism"

Another private Egyptian paper Al-Watan went a step further accusing the West in
its banner headline of "bearing the brunt of feeding terrorism".

The same position was taken by UAE's pro-government Al-Khalij which said in its
editorial: "Terrorism is absolutely condemned regardless of the negative role
which France has played regarding terrorism and which contributed it to its
growth and spread for certain [unnamed] reasons." The paper called for a "new
vision" in globally tackling terrorism "because what hit France today could hit
any other country and is hitting Arab countries everyday".

"Colonialism"

P ointing a figure of accusation to "colonial powers," Oman's pro-government
Al-Watan daily said in its editorial entitled: "Cook of poison will eventually
eat it", that without delving into details, "the earth is sinking in the blood
of those who were unfairly killed". The paper called for "those who were funding
terror to reconsider their plan".

Showing solidarity

Taking a different venue and putting itself in the same shoes, Lebanon's
anti-Syrian Al-Nahar daily considered the attack on Charlie Hebdo "a new attack
on the freedom of expression which Al-Nahar daily itself has been subject to as
of 2005 when its journalists, Jubran Twini and Samir Qasir, were assassinated".
The paper further challenged terrorism and said that writers will eventually win
as their "word will continue to be a time bomb that will go off in the face of
terror and terrorists".

Along the same lines, cartoonist Yusuf Abdilki of Lebanon's pro-Hezbollah
Al-Akhbar daily voiced his "solidarity" with the slain French cartoonists. On
the paper's cover page, he drew a full-page cartoon which showed two
cartoonists, one who is blond and another who is darker in colour, stabbed by a
spear with the word "equality" flying in the air and blood being dropped on the
ground. Under the photo, he said; "A salute of solidarity from the Syrian
cartoonist Abdilki with his colleagues in Charlie Hebdo".

Similarly, Bahrain's pro-government Al-Watan said in an editorial on its front
page that "Using violence to express difference is clear and abhorrent
terrorism. The ethical position regarding it should be the same regardless of
the geography [East or West]".

Source: Middle East Arabic press review from BBC Monitoring in Arabic 08 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Ukraine condemns Paris attack, urges international community to fight terrorism

LENGTH: 258 words


Excerpt from report by Interfax-Ukraine news agency

Kiev, 7 January: The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry has said that Ukraine is shocked
by the appalling terror act at the editorial office of the French magazine
Charlie Hebdo which resulted in the deaths of journalists and policemen.

"Our state against which well-organized terrorist units are acting in Donbass
today knows what terrorism is. We are firmly confident that no motives - neither
political nor ethical nor religious ones - may be a justification for those who
arrogate to themselves the right to deprive people of life," the ministry said
in a statement posted on the ministry's website on the night of 8 January.

The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry has extended sincere condolences to the relatives
and close friends of those killed.

We are especially outraged by the fact that this crime was committed against
journalists. Freedom of speech is a cornerstone of European democracy. Not a
shadow of doubt can be cast on it under any circumstances. Also, no views of
journalists can be a reason for persecution and, much less, violence," the
ministry said.

The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry expressed hope that the executors and masterminds
of this crime would be held to account and receive condign punishment.

"We call on the entire international community to join efforts to fight
terrorism no matter what slogans terrorists use and what goals they set," the
Foreign Ministry summed up.

[Passage omitted: background on the attack]

Source: Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Kiev, in Russian 2118 gmt 7 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

French interior minister confirms seven arrests following terrorist attack

LENGTH: 421 words


Text of report by French Europe 1 radio on 8 January

[Report by Benjamin Bonneau: "Cazeneuve: 'We Are Pursuing the Investigation as
Swiftly as Possible'"]

The day after the attack on Charlie Hebdo, Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve
confirmed on Europe 1 Thursday [8 January] morning that "the current
investigation has led to the arrest of seven people. A few minutes after the
tragedy, all the state's forces mobilized to identify the authors of these
barbaric acts. There is an exceptional mobilization of police forces. We are
resolved to protect the French people and to ensure that those behind this
despicable crime are arrested."

"Justice will be done with the utmost steadfastness" - Has any progress been
made in the investigation? "I am not going to conduct this inquiry in public,
but I want to reassure the French people. There are 88,000 police and gendarme
mobilized throughout the country to ensure all the security of schools, places
of worship, and major stores, and this will continue as long as necessary. We
are pursuing the investigation as swiftly as possible." He concluded: "Those who
perpetrated these acts must know that they will be caught by the Republic and
that justice will be done with the utmost steadfastness. Everything possible is
being done to ensure that these individuals are neutralized."

"We are confronted with a new kind of phenomenon" - Did the two men who are
being sought go to Iraq or Syria to undergo training? "We are confronted with a
new kind of phenomenon. When, in the 1990s, terrorist acts were perpetrated,
they were done so by small groups from abroad. This is no longer the situation
now. There are almost 1,200 French nationals that are either tempted to go to
Iraq, or to perpetrate acts in France, or who have already gone there and who
pose a threat to our country."

"We are adopting every possible precaution, but that does not mean zero risks" -
As for zero risks, the French interior minister confirmed that there is no such
thing: "We are taking every possible precaution, but that does not mean zero
risks. We want to protect French people at all costs. Five attacks have been
averted. Every day we carry out judicial procedures, arrests, and indictments of
individuals who could go into action. Minute by minute, we are taking action to
neutralize these individuals. This is a total mobilization. We are confronted
with an exceptional threat that could lead to further violence. The terrorists
will not win this war.

Source: Europe 1 radio, Paris, in French 8 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

UN denounces terror attack on Yemen police academy

LENGTH: 115 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

New York, 7 January - The UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon strongly condemned on
Wednesday [7 January] the terror attack against the Police Academy in Sana'a.

In a statement by his spokesman, he said that: The attack perpetrators and those
who plotted it should be presented to justice.

He renewed his calls for Yemenis to work together in the fight of terrorism to
achieve security and stability in Yemen.

Ki-moon expressed, at the end of the statement, his condolences for the families
of the victims, wishing quick recovery for all the injured.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 0155 gmt 8 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Egypt condemns terror attack on Yemen police academy

LENGTH: 107 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Cairo, 8 January - Egypt condemned on Thursday [8 January] the Police Academy
terrorist attack taken place in Sana'a, which killed and wounded dozens of
people.

A car bomb was blown up near the Academy on Wednesday killing 37 would-be cadets
and injuring 63 others.

This terrorist bombing is part of a series of violent attacks targeting Yemen's
security and stability, the Egyptian Foreign Ministry spokesman said.

He expressed Egypt's support to the Yemeni government and people to encounter
terrorism.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 0935 gmt 8 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Saudi Arabia condemns "cowardly terrorist attack" on French magazine

LENGTH: 136 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

[Unattributed report: "Official Source: Kingdom Condemns Terrorist Attack in
Paris"]

Riyadh, Rabi'I 16, 1436, Jan 7, 2015, SPA - An official source stated that the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has followed with deep sorrow the terrorist attack that
took place for Charlie Hebdo magazine in Paris resulting in the murder and
injury of many innocent victims.

The source added that while condemning this cowardly terrorist attack which is
incompatible with Islam religion and disapproval by other religions and faiths,
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia extends its condolences to the families of victims,
Government and people of friendly France, wishing speed recovery for injured.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 0000 gmt 7 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

US, France condemn terrorist attack on Yemen police academy

LENGTH: 182 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Sana'a, 7 January - The United States and France condemned on Wednesday [7
January] the terrorist attack that targeted the Police Academy in the Capital
Sana'a and left dozens of people killed and injured.

A booby-trapped car was blown up Wednesday morning in front of the Police
Academy in Sana'a, killing at least 35 people and wounding about 68 others.

The US embassy in Sana'a denounced in a statement issued on Wednesday

the attack on the Police Academy and the senseless murder and injury of Yemeni
citizens, especially those who sought to undertake public service and protect
the Yemeni people.

For its part, the French embassy affirmed in a statement that France stands by
Yemen to counter terrorism and to enhance the security efforts to fight such
criminal acts which targets the security and stability of the country.

The two embassies expressed their condolences to the families of the victims,
who lost their lives in the terrorist attack.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 0206 gmt 8 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

GCC condemns terrorist attack on Yemen police academy in Sana'a

LENGTH: 199 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Yemeni news website Yemen Fox on 8
January

07-01-2015 - Yemen Fox:  GCC Secretary General Dr  Abd Al-Latif Bin-Rashid
al-Zayyani deplored in a press statement here on Wednesday the terrorist blast
that occurred earlier today in front of the police college in Sana'a killing and
wounding numerous innocent people.

The GCC condemns this heinous crime which flies in the face of all civilized
human values, said Al-Zayyani expressing GCC support for Yemen at such difficult
times.

He hoped that the perpetrators of the blast would be caught and held accountable
for their crime of terror.

In another development , Turkey strongly condemned the Wednesday terrorist
attack targeted applicant students who want to enroll at the Police Academy
claiming the lives of dozens of people and wounded others.

"We strongly condemn the bomb attack perpetrated today (7th January) in Sanaa,
the capital of Yemen, which targeted, as it is understood, the persons waiting
to apply for job vacancies in a police station and caused the death and injury
of many," said a press release issued by Turkish Foreign Ministry.

Source: Yemen Fox, Sanaa, in English 0206 gmt 8 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Bahrain condemns terror attack on French magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris

LENGTH: 190 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Bahrain News Agency

Manama, 7 January - The Kingdom of Bahrain condemns the terrorist attack on the
Paris offices of Charlie Hebdo newspaper by gunmen claiming a number of lives
and injuring others.

The Kingdom affirms that it stands by the side of the Friendly Republic of
France and backs all the measures Paris takes to combat terrorism, eliminate all
terror operations and reinforce the security and stability of France and its
friendly people.

While it presents its sincere condolences to the families of the victims in this
sad incident and its wishes for speedy recovery to the injured, the Kingdom of
Bahrain affirms the important role of the responsible press that respects all
religions, accepts religious diversity and rejects all forms of extremism.

It reiterates its unflinching stance that denounces terrorist acts of all forms
and of whatever motives and rejects violence and extremism of all sorts, calling
on the international community to exert further joint effort to uproot terrorism
and dry up its financing sources.

Source: Bahrain News Agency, Manama, in English 2040 gmt 7 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

UAE "strongly" condemns terror attack on French Nnewspaper

LENGTH: 197 words


Text of report in English by UAE news agency WAM website

[Unattributed report: "UAE Strongly Condemns Terror Attack on French Newspaper"]

The UAE on Wednesday strongly condemned the heinous terrorist attack at the
office of the French weekly Charlie Hebdo in Paris, in which scores of unarmed
innocent civilians were killed and injured.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in a statement, emphasised the UAE's solidarity
with the friendly government and people of France at this critical time and
expressed its condemnation of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations as a
phenomenon that targets international security and stability.

The statement said that such appalling criminal acts require cooperation and
solidarity at all levels to eradicate this menace which seeks to spread
destruction, chaos and to destabilise security and stability.

The ministry said these criminal acts against innocent civilians violate all
human principles and ethical values.

The ministry expressed its sincere condolences and sympathies with the French
government and families of victims and wished a swift recovery to the injured.

Source: WAM news agency website, Abu Dhabi, in English 0000 gmt 7 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Turkish commentary views "disgusting" terrorist attack in France

LENGTH: 705 words


Text of report in English by Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman website on 8
January

[Column by Ihsan Yilmaz: "Why Islamophobes love terrorism in the name of Islam"]

When I was penning my piece for this column last week that was titled "Why
Islamophobes love Erdogan and AKP," I had no idea that I would have to continue
writing on the issue from a different angle because of a disgusting and
deplorable terror attack in France.

I argued last week: "We, academics, had been trying to disprove the accusations
of the Islamophobes both in Turkey and in the world that Islam is incompatible
with democracy, freedoms, pluralism and human rights by referring to the cases
of the Justice and Development Party (AKP) and the Hizmet movement. ... The
Islamophobes must now be ecstatically applauding themselves for winning an
argument. It seems that until proven wrong they will be free to claim that
Islamists can never be true democrats. Erdogan has shown that Islamists are
die-hard Islamist and it is almost impossible for them to jettison their
socialism-like, top-down, social engineering ideology that claims to know what
is the best society and that tires to social engineer such society by using the
ideological and repressive apparatuses of the state."

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the AKP, of course, do not seem to be
supporting terrorism in the name of Islam. What I want to say is this: Similar
to Erdogan and the AKP helping Islamophobes to win the argument, those
terrorists who claim to be Muslims are only helping the Islamophobes. I am, of
course, neither a pragmatist nor an opportunist. So, I am not looking at the
issue from a perspective that evaluates social phenomena through a lens that
measures them in terms of their utilitarian value for Muslims. Yet, I humbly
want to show these idiots and monsters who claim to serve Islam that if they are
sincere in this "serving Islam and Muslims," they must know that they are
harming their religion and their "co-religionists." I put co-religionists in
speech marks, since I think that terrorists cease to be Muslims when they commit
such cruel crimes against humanity.

I remember writing here that many Islamists and Islamophobes are mirror images
of each other. They both want to prove that Islam is intolerant, exclusive,
hostile, anti-pluralist, anti-democratic, anti-secularist, and anti-human
rights. This is much more the case with the terrorists who claim to be Muslims.
They simply prove the point of the Islamophobes. As a matter of fact, they both
dislike the fact that Muslims and their religion have been flourishing in
Western secular democratic societies. They hate to see that the overwhelming
majority of Muslims have successfully integrated to Western societies and have
been increasingly become "good" citizens. They deplore the fact that many
practicing Muslims with their manifest Muslim identities can become engineers,
doctors, judges, teachers, mayors, artists, members of the parliaments in almost
all Western countries. Both Islamophobes and so-called "Muslim" terrorists
denigrate pluralism and co-existence. They want to divide the world into two
diametrically opposed, antagonistic and constantly belligerent political camps:
"dar al harb " (land of war) and "dar al Islam" (land of Islam). They do not
want to hide the fact that they use the poisonous rhetoric of the Nazis. They
would love to see a World War between secularist racist nationalists and fanatic
radical "Muslim" terrorists.

Whenever I read pieces by authors who try to portray themselves objective but
are deeply Islamophobic, I feel that their unbalanced and hostile approach to
even moderate and peaceful Muslims who condemn violence only helps the monsters
that I described above. Focusing only on the mistakes, differences and
problematic aspects of these peaceful Muslims and disregarding their much
stronger positive aspects is not helpful for pluralist co-existence. There are
about 1.5 billion Muslims on the planet. If there are no plans to annihilate
these people or change their religion, we have to work towards finding ways to
co-exist.

If the West cannot talk with the peaceful Muslims, with whom will they talk?

Source: Zaman website, Istanbul, in English 8 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Turkish commentary says terrorist attacks in Istanbul reveal "security gap"

LENGTH: 838 words


Text of report in English by Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman website on 8
January

[Column by Emre Uslu: "Security gap in Istanbul"]

Istanbul is Turkey's top tourism destination. Tourists who want to come to
Turkey first want to come and see Istanbul. Thus, security problems in Istanbul
affect the country's tourism and economy. Knowing this, ruling governments have
paid special attention to ensure that people in Istanbul are secure and safe.

Even during the 1990s, when terror attacks were at a peak, the government tried
to ensure that there was no security gap in Istanbul. As a result, when the
Southeast was under heavy terror attacks at that time, Istanbul and other big
cities were relatively safe.

Since December 2013, when the police conducted an operation targeting government
corruption and detained a number of businessman and the sons of several
ministers, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his government moved police
officers who had expertise in intelligence, counter-terrorism operations and
organized crime units, and appointed inexperienced officers to these units.

More importantly, the newly appointed police officers are disoriented by the
government's order and have directed their attention to operations against the
Justice and Development Party (AKP) government's new enemy, the Gulen movement,
not against terror organizations.

In 2014, there were no well-planned operations against al-Qaeda-affiliated
organizations in Istanbul or in Turkey; there was one amateurish operation
against the Revolutionary People's Liberation Party-Front (DHKP-C), but none
against the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). However, police in Istanbul have
conducted countless operations against police officers, media organizations,
businessmen, etc., to seek revenge on behalf of Erdogan from those who conducted
investigations to reveal his and his associates' corruption.

Dispersing experienced police officers from Istanbul has created a large
security gap, to the benefit of mafia organizations and terror networks.
Moreover, some of those who have been appointed to critical positions in the
Istanbul Police Department are known for their association with mafia networks
and Islamist organizations that sympathize with al-Qaeda.

As a result, we saw two big mafia executions take place last month in the heart
of Istanbul, Nisantasi, and two terror attacks have occurred - one at Dolmabahce
Palace, a famous tourist destination, and the other a suicide attack at a police
station in Sultanahmet, the historic district.

The terror organization that conducted the operations, DHKP-C, had formerly been
under tight watch by the police. However, since the police officers with
expertise on these terror organizations were relocated or fired as part of
Erdogan's revenge, the police were no longer able to track what the terror
organizations were doing.

As an example of how incapable the Istanbul Police Department is in preventing
such attacks, one should recall that the names of DHKP-C terrorists and possible
targets were known to the police and the public, but the police could not
prevent the attack. Twenty days before one terror attack, a Twitter account
shared the name of the DHKP-C terrorist and told people that the Istanbul Police
Department knew the names and targets that the DHKP-C was going to attack.

Despite this open information, the police failed to prevent a DHKP-C attack
against Dolmabahce Palace. On the same day that the attack took place, terror
experts and former DHKP-C affiliates shared information indicating that the next
attack would be a suicide attack and gave the names of possible suicide
attackers. As expected, the attack took place, killing one police officer and
wounding a few others within one week; yet, again, the Istanbul Police
Department failed to prevent that attack.

What is worse, the Istanbul Police Department shared the name of a suicide
bomber with the media, but it then came out that the name was wrong. The police
in Istanbul were so incapable that they were not even able to correctly identify
who the suicide bomber was.

The police - before the experienced officers were removed for revenge - would
have been able to prevent the suicide attacks before anyone could blow
themselves up. It is well documented that the police in Istanbul have prevented
dozens of bombings and suicide attacks from taking place in the city.

However, in the past year, the AKP government dispersed the experienced
officers, making it so that let alone preventing a terror attack, they could not
even identify the attacker.

Under these circumstances, one needs to stress that the biggest problem for
Istanbul is security. The police are incapable of maintaining security in
Istanbul. Mafia organizations, terror networks, drug dealers and thieves are
operating freely, and the police only conduct operations against Erdogan's
opposition.

I am not so optimistic, but I hope that the officials will fix this problem
before the upcoming tourism season.

Source: Zaman website, Istanbul, in English 8 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Egypt's Al-Sisi extends condolences to French president over Paris terror attack

LENGTH: 101 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo: President Abd-al-Fattah El Sisi extended condolences to his French
counterpart Francois Hollande over the terrorist attack at the office of a
satirical newspaper, presidential spokesman Alaa Yussuf said.

Yussuf quoted Al-Sisi as saying in a cable that Egypt is standing behind France
and terrorism is a global phenomenon that should be confronted through rallying
international efforts.

At least 12 people were killed in the attack which is believed France s
deadliest attack in decades.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 2151gmt 07 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

EU denounces terrorist attack on police academy in Yemeni capital

LENGTH: 217 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Brussels, 7 January - The European Union has denounced the "terrorist attack"
took place near the Police Academy in Sana'a Wednesday.

"Today bombing outside the Police Academy is the recent among series of
terrorist attacks aiming to shake the transitional process in Yemen," said the
Spokesperson of the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security
Policy Michel Man.

"Our consciousness and feelings are with dozens of victims of today bombing and
with their families, with the victims of Dhamar on January 3 and victims of Ibb
on December 31," he added.

The spokesperson confirmed that restoring security and completing the political
transfer are essential for realizing the stability and prosperity included in
the GCC 2011 Initiative.

He called all political parties to play constructive role to enhance their
policies and adopt dialogue to deal peacefully to cure their injustices in this
crucial time.

He unearthed that the European Union will increase its assistances to support
police and ministry of interior restructuring and continuous support to
constitutional process in Yemen as well as support to Yemeni people in these
hard conditions.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 0201 gmt 8 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Yemen cabinet condemns terror attack on police academy in Sana'a

LENGTH: 139 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Sana'a, 7 January - The cabinet weekly meeting, chaired by Prime Minister Khalid
Bahah, thrashed out on Wednesday [7 January] the criminal terror attack against
the Police Academy which killed tens of applicant students and citizens.

The cabinet affirmed that counterterrorism requires collaboration of all
governmental, social and political efforts without ignoring to solve the reasons
behind extremism and terrorism.

It stressed that the government will puts counterterrorism as a priority and
will not tolerate this phenomenon.

The cabinet re-called the parliament to accelerate the issuance of a
counterterrorism law due to its importance to promote deterrent procedures and
penalties.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 0155 gmt 8 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

GCC chief condemns terror attack on French magazine Charlie Hebdo

LENGTH: 161 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

[Unattributed report: "GCC Secretary General Condemns Terrorist Attack on a
French Magazine in Paris"]

Secretary General of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) Arab Countries Dr  Abd
Al-Latif Bin-Rashid al-Zayyani, has condemned in the strongest words the
terrorist attack targeting Charlie Hebdo magazine in the French capital of Paris
today, killing 12 and injuring scores of innocent people.

Al-Zayani said "GCC countries are strongly condemning this heinous crime which
is incompatible with Islamic values and all human principles and ethics".

He also expressed the support of the GCC countries for France in whatever
measures it might take to catch the culprits and combat terrorist elements,
conveying condolences to the families of the victims, the French government and
people and wishing the injured quick recovery.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 1903 gmt 7 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Yemen Foreign Ministry slams terror attack on French magazine Charlie Hebdo

LENGTH: 98 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

Sana'a, 7 January - The Ministry of Foreign Affairs denounced on Wednesday [7
January] the terror attack against one of the French newspapers headquarters in
the capital Paris which claimed the lives of a number of citizens.

The Ministry expressed condolences for the families of the victims, hoping the
injured people to get well soon.

It demanded the international community to stand as one in front of terrorism
challenges facing all countries.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 0150 gmt 8 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Mali "dismayed" by terror attack on French weekly

LENGTH: 147 words


Text of report by Malian state-owned ORTM TV on 7 January

[Communique issued by the Malian government in Bamako on 7 January - read by
announcer]

The government of Mali was dismayed by the news of the terror attack perpetrated
today against French weekly Charlie Hebdo weekly, resulting in 12 people killed
in several others wounded. The government strongly condemns this attack on
democracy and freedom. The government joins the president of the republic of
Mali in extending its heartfelt condolences to the grieved families, the French
president and Government, as well as to the French nation at large; and wishes a
quick recovery to the wounded.

The government hereby reiterates its solidarity and dedicated commitment beside
France and all the democratic nations fighting against terrorism and for liberty
and the human rights.

Source: ORTM TV, Bamako, in French 2000 gmt 7 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Paris terror attack blackens Islam - Tajik Islamic party

LENGTH: 242 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Dushanbe, 8 January: Islam does not need defenders of the type that attacked
unarmed employees of the French magazine Charlie Hebdo, the [opposition] Islamic
Rebirth Party of Tajikistan (IRPT) has stated.

"Those who committed that act using Islamic slogans as a cover did nothing but
blackened the image of the Muslims' religion. Islam does not need such
protection and such protectors," the second largest political force of
Tajikistan said in a statement released on Thursday [8 January].

"What the journalists who posted the caricatures did was equally wrong, as the
action of those who opened gunfire. A case should be proven in court, strictly
within the lawful limits, instead of such inhumane and merciless actions," the
IRPT concluded.

Tajikistan, where most Muslims practise moderate Islam, mainly Hanafi Sunni, has
condemned Prophet Muhammad caricatures but has not exhibited an openly
aggressive behaviour towards the West and westerners.

The IRPT has over 40,000 supporters and is the second largest party in the
country. The IRPT is the only opposition party that holds parliament seats. It
is also the only legal Islamic party on the post-Soviet space. The party
emphasizes that it does not call for transforming secular Tajikistan into an
Islamic state.

[Passage omitted: background of the Charlie Hebdo attack]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1140 gmt 8 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Syria strongly condemns terrorist attack on French magazine

LENGTH: 292 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus, SANA - Syria strongly condemned the terrorist attack on Charlie Hebdo
magazine in Paris which left a number of people dead and extended heartfelt
condolences to the families of the victims and their colleagues.

An official source at the Foreign and Expatriates Ministry said, in a statement
to SANA on Thursday, this terrorist act clearly shows the dangers of the
outbreak of extremist terrorism which poses a threat to the stability and
security of the world as a whole.

The source underlined the need for a serious policies that lead to collaboration
of all efforts to eliminate the epidemic of terrorism.

"Syria has repeatedly warned of the dangers of supporting terrorism, especially
that targeted Syria and the region, and warned that this terrorism will fall
back on its supporters as events and threats, and that (terrorism) affected more
than a European city confirms deficiency of the European policies and its
responsibility for the bloodshed in Syria," the source said.

"Syria, which is firmly combating extremist, terrorism and the best of its
people fell victims of the terrorism coming from abroad, renews its call for
correcting the wrong policies and commitment to combating all forms of terrorism
according to International legitimacy, the latest of which were UN Security
Council resolutions NOs. 2170 and 2178 and accountability of countries which
have been providing all kinds of support to the terrorist groups" the source
added.

Earlier Wednesday, 12 people were killed, including two policemen, and others
were wounded in a terrorist attack on the French magazine Charlie Hebdo in
Paris.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1145 gmt 8 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Austrian security chief sees no link with Paris terror attack

LENGTH: 348 words


Text of report by Austrian newspaper Wiener Zeitung on 8 January

[Unattributed report: "Expert Expects Increase in Number of Terrorist Attacks"]

Vienna/Paris - After the terrorist attack in Paris there are currently no
indications of any links with Austria, Peter Gridling, director of the Federal
Office for the Protection of the Constitution and Counterterrorism (BVT), said
on the "Journal Panorama" programme of Oe1 radio's "Abendjournal" cast. Austria
has offered France support. At present there is still no "clear picture of the
situation," which is why one cannot yet say whether and which measures are
necessary in Austria.

Like Interior Minister Johanna Mikl-Leitner (Austrian People's Party) before
him, he pointed out that attacks cannot be ruled out "with 100-per cent
certainty" anywhere in the world: "It is impossible to give a guarantee."

Like in many other cities, in Vienna, too, people gathered on Wednesday evening
[7 January] to commemorate the victims of the attack. Carrying candles, posters
saying "Je Suis #Charlie," and copies of the satirical magazine, hundreds of
people expressed their solidarity in front of the French Embassy.

Austria Not a Primary Target

The attack is another one in a series of attacks by a "new jihadism," which are
aimed, above all, against "soft targets" and are carried out by smaller groups,
terrorism expert Claude Moniquet said. He expects an "increase in the number of
terrorist attacks" in the near future, which, all together, will claim many
lives. Austria continues to be no primary target of the Islamists. The
terrorists are focusing on the United States, Great Britain, or France, which
are those countries that are participating in the military operations against
the Islamists, said the head of the Brussels think-tank ESISC (European
Strategic Intelligence and Security Centre). The likelihood of attacks does not
just depend on a country's foreign policy orientation but also on how many
extremists live there and on the opportunity "to find a good target to attack."

Source: Wiener Zeitung, Vienna, in German 8 Jan 15 p 4

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Norway condemns "appalling terrorist attack" on French magazine

LENGTH: 168 words


Text of report in English by Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs website on 7
January

[Press release: "Norway Condemns Terrorist Attack in Paris"]

"I condemn the appalling terrorist attack in Paris today in the strongest
possible terms. We stand together with the people of France in their grief,'
said Minister of Foreign Affairs Borge Brende.

Earlier today, armed men stormed the offices of the French magazine Charlie
Hebdo. Twelve people have been reported killed and eight have been injured.

'This is an act of terrorism against innocent people, and a direct attack on one
of our fundamental democratic values -freedom of expression. Such actions can
never and will never be accepted. Freedom of speech and freedom of thought will
never be eradicated by terrorism. Attacks such as the one today only heighten
our awareness of the importance of freedom of expression, and strengthen our
resolve to defend it,' Mr Brende said.

Source: Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Oslo, in English 7 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Security officials warn of "high abstract" risk of terrorist attacks in Germany

LENGTH: 704 words


Excerpt from report by right-of-centre German newspaper Die Welt on 8 January

[Report by Florian Flade and Martin Lutz: "High Security Risk From Islamists in
Germany"]

[passage omitted] According to security authorities, an attack such as that in
Paris is possible also in Germany. "I see an unchanged, high abstract terrorist
danger in Germany," said Hans-Georg Maassen, president of the Federal Office for
the Protection of the Constitution [Germany's homeland intelligence agency] as
recently as in November. "There are no concrete cases; yet, we should see this
as a realistic danger."

Already in fall, in a confidential "Assessment of the Threat Situation with
Regard to Politically Motivated Crime," the Federal Office of Criminal
Investigation (BKA) arrived at a similar conclusion. The paper speaks of an
"ongoing threat" from Islamist terrorists. In particular, jihadists returning
from Syria pose a "high security risk." The "individual jihad" is also gaining
importance, the paper says, adding that it is difficult to track down individual
attackers, so-called lone offenders [preceding two words published in original
English], and it is hardly possible to prevent their attacks. The BKA did not
want to answer questions about the attack in Paris, referring to the fact that
the evidence still was not clear.

Sources from the Federal Interior Ministry report that militant Islamists still
pose a high abstract danger in Germany but that it is too early to decide about
additional security measures. "The situation is serious. There is reason for
concern and we need to take precautions, but there is no reason to panic,"
Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere (CDU [Christian Democratic Union]), warned,
adding that security officials were in close contact with the French
authorities.

According to German security authorities, more than 1,000 people are to be seen
as potential terrorists, including some 300 violent extremists. About 230
Islamists are regarded as "dangerous persons," capable of committing serious
acts of violence at any time.

"This extremely brutal and barbaric attack is yet another escalation of Islamist
terrorism, which is not limited to the Middle East," Bavarian Interior Minister
Joachim Herrmann (CSU [Christian Social Union]) told [the German daily] Die
Welt. "We should be aware in Europe of the fact that the Islamic State (IS [or
ISIL]) as well as [the terrorist group] Al-Qa'idah are waging a war of
aggression against the entire free world - not only against the freedom of
opinion and the press, but against our liberal democratic basic order." It would
be naive to underestimate these threats for Germany. "We should respond to the
terrorists' violence and hatred with freedom and tolerance, and at the same time
continue to strengthen our security authorities."

North Rhine-Westphalian Interior Minister Ralf Jaeger (SPD [Social Democratic
Party of Germany]) condemned the Paris attack as "malicious and inhuman."
"Investigations so far suggest that fanaticized Islamists have committed this
atrocious crime. It is a cowardly attack on the freedom of opinion, and thus, on
our democratic values in Europe. Here, we all need to close ranks in the
struggle against terrorists," Jaeger said.

In a conversation with Die Welt, Lorenz Caffier (CDU), interior minister of
Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania and spokesman of the CDU interior ministers,
stressed the high security standards, pointing out that, in the past, various
attacks could be prevented. "In general, the citizens can feel safe in Germany,"
he stated, adding, "The attack right at our doorstep shows once again that there
is still an abstract danger. The federal and state security authorities were and
are vigilant."

Yet, no one could say with certainty whether and when a similar attack like that
in Paris would be committed in Germany, the chairman of the German Police Trade
Union, Rainer Wendt warned. "One does not need much imagination to identify the
many Islam-critical events, slogans, and demonstrations as possible terrorist
targets," Wendt told Die Welt, stressing that, in any case, police were
hopelessly overtaxed with the task of protecting such events in Germany.

Source: Die Welt, Berlin, in German 8 Jan 15; p 3

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Malian president says "very, very moved" by terror attack on French magazine

LENGTH: 530 words


Text of report by Malian state-owned ORTM TV on 7 January

Here in Mali, the head of state reacted immediately to condemn the terrorist
act. He also said that the Malians are upset by this barbaric act. Ibrahima
Traore's report.

[Traore] Paris is in shock after a deadly terror attack. Bamako is upset and
expresses its compassion and consternation. Immediately after receiving the sad
news, the president of the republic reacted firmly to condemn this terrible
action of violence. Ibrahim Boubacar Keita says he is upset.

[Keita] I would like to extend my total sympathy to the French people, President
Hollande the head of state, and the families of all the innocent victims taken
away from them in an action whose cruelty and unfoundedness are beyond
understanding.

[Traore] President Keita indicated that this barbarian action calls for further
vigilance and added that the international community should further mobilize to
cope with those unspeakable crimes.

[Keita] We think that the fight against terror is not the matter of just one
country or region. The French president has quite understood this; and has
always said that it is a global fight against those who reject all of our values
of humanity and respect for life. The perpetrators of today's offence are not
the friends of humanity, and cannot be friends of humanity.

This is the reason why we should make every effort so that terrorism cannot
prevail, and so that they can experience the fate experienced by all those who
have tried to attack humanity in the greatest moment of freight in the history
of humanity, as the moment that we are currently through.

It is not a classic and open war, it is an asymmetric, faceless, and cruel war
against every value. It is therefore uniquely cruel.

We are very, very moved. We want our French friends to know that we entirely
stand by them; and that we reinforce our cooperation with France and with all
the other countries towards unreservedly fighting terror.

[Traore] The events are closely monitored in this editorial office. Here people
think that there is no justification for this attack.

[Alexu Kauembri, editorialist at Echos daily] You know that international terror
is no more selecting targets. They are in a rationale of undertaking resounding
actions. They are not forcibly targeting the French engagement. Indeed, other
countries are more engaged than France and they would have chosen other targets
instead of journalists. I therefore think that the purpose is simply to hurt and
shock.

[Traore] In the Malian capital city, the residents do not hide they indignation.
They are all expressing solidarity with the French people.

[First unidentified speaker] Any attack should be condemned, mostly when it
targets the media. It is actually deplorable that such actions are still
perpetrated in the 21th Century.

[Second unidentified speaker] In Europe, USA and Asia, there are attacks
everywhere. The international community should pool its strength to fight
against those attacks.

[Traore] This is the deadliest attack in France in the past 40 years. Many
voices have spoken up to condemn the deadly attack.

Source: ORTM TV, Bamako, in French 2000 gmt 7 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Authorities foil terror attack in southeast Yemen

LENGTH: 370 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Yemeni news website Yemen Fox on 8
January

07-01-2015: Yemen Fox-exclusive

Yemen's Defence Ministry announced that BDS thwarted terrorist attack in Shibam
district in the southeastern province of Hadramout .

A military source in the first military region, said that bomb disposal squad of
the first military region raided a house in Shibam and detected five suspects of
affiliating to Al-Qa'idah and managed to dismantle a car bomb that contains of
ton of TNT.

The source noted that after heavy clashes with the support of a military
helicopter , the personnel arrested five elements suspected to be Al-Qa'idah and
referred them to the competent authorities for completion of legal proceedings.

The source pointed out that BDS unit defused the car bomb that was parking
beside a house in which the terrorists made a shelter .

The source concluded that the military units are to arrest the elements that
fled immediately after the clashes.

In another development , Yemen's interior ministry reported at least 33 people
were killed and about 62 injured in the bombing in Sana'a. About 300 students
were at the academy, according to a security official. The final death toll is
still being determined.

The academy is controlled by the Huthis, who seized Sanaa last year after
advancing from their northern base and forcing president Abd-Rabbuh Mansur Hadi
to form a new government. Members of Sunni Al-Qa'idah and tribal fighters have
stepped up attacks on the Shi'i fighters, raising the prospect of the state's
collapse along sectarian lines and alarming neighbour Saudi Arabia.

While there was no immediate claim of responsibility for the strike on the
police academy, Al-Qa'idah said it carried out more than 60 attacks, mostly
against the Houthis, in December. An explosion on December 31 killed 23 people
at a Huthi celebration in the central province of Ibb.

Insecurity in Yemen has spiralled since popular unrest drove president Ali
Abdallah Salih from power in 2011. His successor Mr Hadi, installed under a
peace plan backed by Saudi Arabia and its Sunni allies, struggled to restore
order in the nation of 25 million.

Source: Yemen Fox, Sanaa, in English 0205 gmt 8 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Romania sees no reason to change terror alert level after Paris attack

LENGTH: 195 words


Text of report in English by Romanian government news agency Agerpres

Bucharest, Jan 8 /Agerpres/ -President Klaus Iohannis was informed on Wednesday
[7 January] by the specialty structures regarding the situation determined by
the terrorist attack in Paris, the Romanian Intelligence Service (SRI) believing
there is no reason to change the alert level in Romania and that no
terrorist-type threats have been identified at the level of our country at this
moment.

'The President of Romania, Mr Klaus Iohannis, was informed, through the
Department of National Security, by specialty structures, on the situation
determined by the tragic attack that took place today [e.n. -Wednesday] in
Paris. SRI has mentioned that there are no reasons to change the alert level in
Romania and no terrorist-type threats were identified at the level of our
country at this moment', the Presidential Administration shows in a release.

According to the quoted source, 'the pertinent institutions of the state are
closely following the situation, ensuring inter-institutional cooperation so
that Romania's citizens be safe'.

Source: Agerpres news agency, Bucharest, in English 0705 gmt 8 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Turkmen president offers condolences over Paris terror attack

LENGTH: 111 words


Text of report by state-owned Turkmen TV Altyn Asyr channel on 8 January

Turkmen President Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow has sent a message of condolences to
French President Francois Hollande over a terrorist act in Paris which resulted
in numerous human victims and injuries.

Turkmenistan resolutely condemns any manifestation of terrorism and extremism
and wholly supports the international community's efforts to combat and
eradicate this evil, the message says.

The Turkmen president has offered sincere condolences to the kith and kin of
those killed and also wished the injured soon recovery.

Source: Turkmen TV Altyn Asyr channel, Ashgabat, in Turkmen 1600 gmt 8 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 9:54 AM GMT

Charlie Hebdo outrage: Birmingham vigil planned for tonight;
French student organises show of support in response to Paris terror attack

BYLINE: By Emma McKinney

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 405 words


A vigil is set to be held in Birmingham tonight in memory of the 12 victims of
the Charlie Hebdo massacre.

Hundreds of people are expected to gather in Victoria Square at 7.30pm, before
marching in solidarity to the Library of Birmingham and along Broad Street.

They are expected to carry banners declaring #JeSuisCharlie - a phrase which
became a rallying call within minutes of yesterday's attack on the magazine's
Paris office.

The phrase has been tweeted more than 250,000 times by people showing their
unity with the satirical title.

Details of the event were posted on Facebook by Zoé Pelletier, a criminology
student at Birmingham City University.

Zoe, of Solihull, wrote: "I think it would be a great idea to gather up as a
community to pay our respect to the people who lost their lives during this
horrific tragedy, also to show our compassion and our love for their families
and friends who will be grieving.

"Freedom of speech should always be something humans are entitled to regardless
their culture, race, religion, sexuality or ethnicity. We should not be afraid
to say what we want.

"It would mean a great deal to all the people that were affected by this tragedy
if you all could come to show your support.

"Everyone who wishes to show their support is welcome.

"It is a free country after all!

"France is a strong nation, and we should NEVER forget our motto 'Liberté
(liberty), égalité (equality), fraternité (fraternity)'."

Those taking part in tonight's vigil are being encouraged to bring lanterns and
lights to shine in support of the victims.

Seven people have been arrested over the massacre, while two "armed and
dangerous" brothers with links to terrorist groups going back at least a decade
today remained on the run.

As the manhunt for Cherif and Said Kouachi continued, their alleged getaway
driver Hamyd Mourad, 18, turned himself into police in Charleville-Mezieres in
northern France.

In 2008, Cherif was sentenced to three years in prison for terror offences - but
served just 18 months.

In another development, two police officers were shot by a man brandishing a
machine gun on the outskirts of Paris, with one understood to be seriously
injured.

The suspect, thought to be wearing a bullet-proof vest and body armour, attacked
the municipal police officers in Châtillon just after 8am (7am GMT) as they
attended a routine road incident.

It was not known if the shooting was linked to the Charlie Hebdo attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

VIDEO: Police tributes to victims of suspected terrorist attack on French
magazine

BYLINE: Jeremy Culley

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 619 words


POLICE chiefs have reacted with shock at the suspected Islamist terrorist attack
on satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris, which left two officers and
several journalists dead.

Sir Peter Fahy said that Greater Manchester Police would observe a two-minute
silence outside force HQ at 10.30am today 24 hours on from the "appalling
atrocity".

Lancashire Police staff will be doing the same, while Bolton's police and crime
commissioner Tony Lloyd has said that to kill journalists, cartoonists and
police officers was "barbaric".

French police have released images of two men they are hunting, having already
made seven arrests.

They are Said and Cherif Kouachi, aged 34 and 32.

According to media reports, Cherif was first considered to be a possible
terrorist by the French authorities when he was in his early 20s and had dreamed
of attacking Jewish targets in France.

The gunmen shouted Islamist slogans as they entered the offices of the magazine,
before killing 12 people.

Chief Constable of Greater Manchester Police Sir Peter Fahy, said: "Our thoughts
and sympathies are with the families of all those who lost their lives in
yesterday's tragic and savage events.

"At 10.30am, 24 hours on from this appalling atrocity, we will hold a small
ceremony to pay our respects and remember the twelve innocent people who were
murdered, including two police officers who were simply trying to protect the
public.

"All members of the British police forces are shocked at the savagery of this
attack. In any democratic society it is the role of the police to protect basic
human rights and our two French colleagues died protecting free speech.

"They knew the risks they were facing in carrying out their duty and clearly
showed great bravery in trying to prevent the terrorists murdering others. We
stand in solidarity and express our great sympathy for their families and
friends.

"We have to stand together against this threat and we cannot be naive or
complacent about how extremist ideologies seek to justify this compete
disrespect for human life and for the values which ensure the freedom and
welfare of all citizens.

"We need the continued cooperation and support of the public but all members of
British policing will be even more determined to meet this threat. "

Photographs of the ceremony will be shared with French colleagues in a show of
solidarity.

A book of condolence will be made available at GMP's HQ in Northampton Road,
Newton Heath for people to write messages.

Mr Lloyd said: "This is a shocking attack. Freedom of expression is a precious
right, whether we agree or disagree with the views of those who exercise it.

"To kill journalists, cartoonists and police officers is an act of barbarity -
but it will not work. The fundamental belief in the right of people to express
themselves in a democratic society will not be dented by terrorist attacks.

"Our thoughts are with the victims of today's attack."

The dead have been named by French authorities.

They are Charlie Hebdo editor and cartoonist Stephane Charbonnier, aged 47, who
had been living under police protection since receiving death threats.

Cartoonists Jean Cabut, aged 76, Bernard Verlhac, aged 57, Georges Wolinski,
aged 80, and Philippe Honore, aged 73.

Economist and regular magazine columnist Bernard Maris, aged 68, known to
readers as Uncle Bernard.

Mustapha Ourrad, proof-reader and Elsa Cayat, psychoanalyst and columnist, the
only woman killed.

Michel Renaud, who was visiting from the city of Clermont-Ferrand.

Frederic Boisseau, aged 42, a caretaker, who was in the reception area at the
time of the attack.

Police officers Franck Brinsolaro, who acted as Charb's bodyguard, and Ahmed
Merabet, aged 42, who was shot dead while on the ground.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Crawley Observer

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Sussex Police pay tribute to Paris terror attack victims

BYLINE: Tom Cotterill

LENGTH: 599  words


POLICE across Sussex fell silent this morning, paying tribute to those killed
during an apparent militant Islamist attack in Paris yesterday (Wednesday,
January 7).

Officers from across Sussex Police joined their colleagues from police forces in
Hampshire and Dorset in a two-minute silence at 10.30am to mark the Charlie
Hebdo magazine massacre, which left 12 dead and France on its highest level of
terror alert.

Deputy Chief Constable Olivia Pinkney led the service, quoting philosopher
Voltaire- "I may not agree with what you have to say but I will defend to the
death your right to say it."

She continued: "Our job, as a proud police profession, is to protect the
vulnerable, keeping people safe from harm. Yesterday our French colleagues were
murdered doing simply that, dying alongside 10 others and today another officer
has been murdered in the south of Paris.

"We are the police family. We stand with you, our colleagues in France as you
mourn and honour those killed. As you continue to bravely walk towards danger in
your hunt for those who have caused such horror, we continue to police today as
you do in France and will do every day."

Two gunmen, clad in black, wearing balaclavas and armed with assault rifles,
stormed the headquarters of the satirical publication - which had previously
mocked the prophet Muhammad in 2011 - while staff were holding their morning
meeting.

A total of nine journalists from the paper, alongside two police officers and
one other, were killed during the offensive,
{http://www.theguardian.com/world/2015/jan/07/paris-terror-attack-what-we-know-s
o-far|  The Guardian} has said.

Four others are believed to be in a critical condition.

The masked men fled in a car, prompting one of the largest manhunts in France's
history.

More than 3,000 police officers were mobilised to hunt down the gunmen.

Speaking to the media yesterday, French President Francois Hollande said there
was no doubt the assault had been a terrorist attack of exceptional barbarity'.

Prime Minister David Cameron has also condemned the slaughters.

Commenting on Twitter, he said: "The murders in Paris are sickening. We stand
with the French people in the fight against terror and defending the freedom of
the press."

Last night tens of thousands of people took to the streets of the French
capital, and others across the globe, in a display of united defiance against
the onslaught.

Crowds held placards with the slogan #JeSuisCharlie - I am Charlie' - written in
French on them.

It came as French commandos continued their hunt for the suspected terrorists.

Police are searching for two brothers, Said Kouachi and Cherif Kouachi, in
connection with yesterday's killings.

Latest reports suggest that two men, matching the description of the suspects,
have been spotted during an armed robbery at a petrol station near
Villers-Cotteret, in the northern Aisne region, east of Paris, earlier today.

{http://news.sky.com/story/1404236/shots-fired-in-paris-suspects-robbery |  Sky
News} reported that shots were fired shots during the alleged incident.

Yesterday evening heavily armoured French police raided an apartment in the city
of Reims in the hunt for the killers.

A total of seven people were detained overnight as a result of this, French
officials reported.

The British Government has said that, in the wake of the Charlie Hebdo attack,
it would not be changing the UK terror threat level, which is currently set at
severe'.

Yesterday's terror attack is believed to be the deadliest in France since 1961,
when right-wingers who wanted to keep Algeria French bombed a train, killing 28
people.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPCO


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 11:15 AM GMT

Charlie Hebdo terrorist attack: Cartoonists from around the world take to paper
to pay tribute to their fallen colleagues;
IN the wake of the attacks on French magazine, Charlie Hebdo, cartoonists
worldwide paid their respects in a series of profound cartoons.

BYLINE: By dailyrecord

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 257 words


In pictures: Cartoonists around the world unite to pay tribute to Charlie Hebdo
victims

Cartoonists from around the world have drawn heartbreaking images in tribute to
"cartooning colleagues, their families and loved ones" affected by the massacre
which claimed 12 lives at the Charlie Hebdo offices in Paris.

Witnesses at the scene of the attack have said the gunmen claimed they were
acting as part of terrorist group Al Qaeda, and members of the French public
have subsequently taken to the streets to march under the banner "Je suis
Charlie".

#JeSuisCharlie also trended on Twitter, with people around the world using the
hashtag to show their refusal to be silenced by terrorism, and to show their
solidarity with those who sadly lost their lives in the attack.

Prominent cartoonists have produced heartwrenching images defending their right
to freedom of expression.

Le Monde cartoonist Plantu

Plantu

JM:o - tweeted by French magazine Le Plus

Le Plus

"Died for freedom of expression"

Died for freedom

Chilean cartoonist Francisco J. Olea

Francisco

Washington Post cartoonist Ann Telnaes

Ann Telnaes

Parisian cartoonist Boulet

Boulet

Jean Julien

Jean Julien

Dutch cartoonist Ruben L. Oppenheimer

Ruben L Oppenheimer

Australian cartoonist David Pope

David Pope

Indian cartoonist Neelabh Banerjee

Neelabh Banerjee

Parisian cartoonist Loic Secheresse

Loic Secheresse

Argentine cartoonist Bernardo Erlich

Argentine cartoonist Bernardo Erlich

Le Monde cartoonist Martin Vidberg

Martin Vidberg

"Today I am a cartoonist, today I am a journalist, today I draw for Charlie
Hebdo."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 10:59 AM GMT

PARIS TERROR ATTACK: Policeman gunned down by Islamic terrorists was Muslim

BYLINE: Tom Rawle

LENGTH: 434 words


A POLICE officer who was executed at the hands of two Islamic extremists in
Paris yesterday was Muslim, French media has reported.

Ahmed Merabet, 42, was seen on camera being shot at point-blank range as he
pleaded for mercy from the gunmen.

Merabet, a Muslim by faith, was serving as a patrolman in the 11th
arrondissement - the district where Charlie Hebdo's office is located in Paris,
it was reported.

Eleven other people, including a second cop, were killed as the armed attackers
raided the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo yesterday morning.

The masked gunmen, carrying Kalashnikov AK47 rifles entered the building and
shot at journalists as they shouted "Allahu Akbar" - God is greatest.

Stéphane Charbonnier, editor of Charlie Hebdo since 2009, Jean Cabut, one of
France's most renowned cartoonists and world-famous illustrator Georges Wolinski
were among the victims.

Police have launched a national manhunt for suspects, identified as Said
Kouachi, 34, Cherif Kouachi, 32, are still on the run.

Paris is on heightened alert as the national security level was raised to the
highest possible.

Despite French president Francois Hollande declaring a day of mourning , a
second attack on police emerged this morning.

A traffic officer was killed after being shot in the back while another victim,
a council worker, was fired at in Montrouge, just south of the city.

Francois Hollande, French president

There were also reports of a large explosion close to a Mosque in Lyon.

Yesterday, President Hollande visited the site of the shootings at the magazine
offices.

He said: "France is today in shock, in front of a terrorist attack.

"This newspaper was threatened several times in the past.

"We need to show that we are a united country. We have to be firm, we have to be
strong."

Thousands around the world have reacted to the shooting, which is thought to
have been carried out in retaliation to the mag's controversial depiction of the
Muslim Prophet Muhammad.

The hashtag #JeSuisCharlie has been trending since yesterday.

And many cartoonists around the globe have paid tribute to the artists and
illustrators who were killed in the mass shooting.

Related articles BREAKING NEWS: Female police officer has died in SECOND Paris
shooting Trail of horror around the world: The tragedy of Islamic terrorism
PARIS TERROR ATTACK: al-Qaida killers screamed 'We have avenged the prophet!'
PARIS TERROR ATTACK: Murdered Charlie Hebdo cartoonist was 'targeted by al-Qaida
in 2013' PARIS TERROR ATTACK: Manhunt underway for two deadly 'al-Qaida' gunmen
as seven arrested

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 8:08 AM GMT

Charlie Hebdo terror attack: 'Two more policeman shot in Paris as gunman flees
to subway';
A man opened fire with a machine gun in Porte de Chatillon just after 8am this
morning

BYLINE: By Steve Robson

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 331 words


Two more policeman have been shot in Paris as a gunman fled to the subway,
according to reports.

The man opened fire with a machine gun, leaving two officers injured in the
Porte de Chatillon area in the south of the city, French media report.

The incident happened just after 8am near a Metro station.

At this stage it is not known if the shooting is linked to yesterdays' massacre
of 12 people at the office of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo by Islamic
extremists.

Reports suggest one policeman is "seriously" injured.

They were attending a routine road incident when at least one man arrived
wearing a backpack and opened fire.

Police continue to hunt for the terrorists behind yesterday's massacre.

They have made "several arrests" overnight, French Prime Minister Manuel Valls
said.

Charlie Hebdo shooting: As many as 10 people are feared to have been killed
after gunmen burst into the office of the satirical magazine

Photographs of two prime suspects in the Paris attack have been released by
police- as a third man handed himself in.

Hamyd Mourad, 18, surrendered to police, after hearing his name on the news in
connection with the attack, a judicial official said.

But a massive manhunt for the other two suspects, brothers Said Kouachi and
Cherif Kouachi, continues with thousands of police scouring the streets of
France for them.

Mr Valls said preventing another attack "is our main concern," as he explained
why authorities released photos of the two men along with a plea for witnesses
to come forward.

Twelve people died in the attack on the offices of Charlie Hebdo, a weekly
newspaper that had been threatened before for its caricatures of the Prophet
Muhammed.

The terror attack has been condemned by global leaders and France's president
Francois Hollande has declared a national day of mourning today following the
bloody raid - France's worst terror attack since 1961.

WARNING EXTREME CONTENT: Gunmen execute French agent before making their getaway
from the Paris shooting scene

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WAR ON FREEDOM;
France reels from its worst terrorist attack in a generation after 12 people,
including five cartoonists, are murdered in cold blood by Islamist fanatics
angry at magazine that satirised the Prophet Mohammed 'It lasted 5 minutes, I
hid under desk' Gunmen knew their target, Charb the cartoonist who had a price
on his head. They killed him and shot everyone else they could see

BYLINE: Gordon Rayner; Henry Samuel ; Martin Evans

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4,5

LENGTH: 2236 words


WITH ruthless precision, two masked al-Qaeda gunmen calmly fire eight shots at
an unarmed policeman as a terrorist attack of "indescribable barbarity" nears
its end.

Moments after this image was taken, the policeman, lying mortally wounded on the
pavement of a Parisian boulevard, held up a hand in one final pleading gesture
for mercy. A second later, one terrorist jogged past and shot him in the head
without breaking stride, just one more act of brutality in an attack that left
10 journalists and two policemen dead.

Earlier two gunmen armed with automatic rifles stormed the office of the
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, a target for Islamist terrorists since it
printed cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed in 2006 and 2011, and killed
cartoonists and satirists whose names were called out as they were shot dead in
turn.

"We have avenged the Prophet!" the killers shouted in accentless French as they
left the building, having identified themselves as acting on behalf of "al-Qaeda
in Yemen". France's worst terrorist attack in a generation was also its most
meticulously planned; the killers had not only memorised the names of those they
wanted to kill, they also planned their getaway well enough to evade the police.

Last night it was unclear whether the subjects of one of Europe's biggest
manhunts in memory were still at large, following reports in France that they
had been arrested.

The killers were named in the French media as Said and Chérif Kouachi, brothers
aged 34 and 32, and Hamid Mourad, 18. Chérif was reportedly part of an Iraqi
jihadist network dismantled in the nearby 19th arrondissement. He was jailed for
three years on terror charges in May 2008. Two addresses in Paris were raided
and a search was carried out in Reims, reported to be the home town of one of
the men.

"An act of indescribable barbarity has been committed today in Paris," said
President François Hollande, promising that the killers "will be hunted for as
long as it takes to catch them and bring them to justice". David Cameron was
among the world leaders who condemned the murders as an attack on free speech.

A doctor who was one of the first medics to enter the magazine's office
described a "war scene" with "bodies lying one on top of another". Four
survivors remained critical in hospital after being shot in the face, chest or
leg.

The terrorists managed to evade police despite apparently crashing their black
Citroen C3 into a bollard, forcing them to abandon the car, before holding up an
elderly motorist at gunpoint and stealing his grey Renault Clio.

For several years, Europe's intelligence services have feared that Muslim
extremists who have travelled to Syria, Iraq and elsewhere to fight would return
home to plot carnage, and the gunmen's ruthless efficiency left little doubt
that they had received military training.

Nicolas Hénin, a French journalist who was held hostage for 10 months in Syria,
said: "I'd be very surprised if the attackers hadn't fought in Syria. It wasn't
the first time they had carried arms."

Last night thousands of Parisians staged a rally to express their outrage and
their determination to defy the terrorists with the slogan "Je Suis Charlie" -
"I Am Charlie".

Some who gathered in the Place de la Republique brought along copies of the
Mohammed cartoons. They chanted "innocents" and many were in tears.

In Trafalgar Square, hundreds of people staged a spontaneous show of solidarity
with the French people, holding up pens to signify their support for the dead
journalists. An Israeli busker, Bar Markovich, played La Marseillaise on his
violin as bystanders formed a circle and threw their pens into the centre.

The Prime Minister called a meeting with Jon Day, head of the Joint Intelligence
Committee, to be briefed on any possible threats of a similar attack in Britain,
where the terrorist threat level remains "severe", the second-highest level,
meaning an attack is highly likely.

Earlier, Mr Cameron and Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, who is visiting
London, were given a joint briefing by MI5 and MI6 in Downing Street and held a
conference call with Mr Hollande.

Mr Cameron said: "We must be very clear about one thing, which is we should
never give up the values that we believe in and defend as part of our democracy
and civilisation and believing in a free press, in freedom of expression, the
right of people to write and say what they believe. These are the things we are
defending and we should be very clear on this day that these values that we have
are not sources of weakness for us - they are sources of strength."

The Metropolitan Police contacted at least one British magazine and told its
staff to keep doors locked and telephone the police at the first sign of
trouble.

Wearing hoods and dressed in black, the killers attacked the Charlie Hebdo
office in central Paris at 11.20 local time, when the editorial team was holding
its weekly meeting on the magazine's press day. "Tell the media this is from
al-Qaeda in Yemen," they told one bystander.

Corinne Rey, a cartoonist, was forced at gunpoint to enter the code for the
front door as the gunmen threatened to kill her toddler, whom she had just
picked up from nursery. The gunmen then went to the second-floor editorial room
to begin the attack in an "organised commando" style, according to one police
source.

Top of their hit list was the magazine's production director, Stéphane
Charbonnier, known as Charb, who had a price put on his head by al-Qaeda in
2013. "They knew their target in advance," said a police source. "It was Charb
they were targeting. The attackers looked for him in the room, shouting 'Where
is Charb? Where is Charb?' They killed him then sprayed everyone else." Mr
Charbonnier's police bodyguard, assigned to him following earlier death threats,
was among those killed. Friends of Mr Char-bonnier said he had begun venturing
out without his bodyguard.

There were also suggestions that others were on a hit list. Among the dead were
cartoonists Jean Cabut, who was known by the pen-name Cabu and drew the Mohammed
cartoon in 2006, Bernard "Tignous" Verlhac and Georges Wolinski.

Ms Rey said: "They shot on Wolinski, Cabu. It lasted five minutes. I had hidden
under my desk. They spoke French perfectly - they said they were al-Qaeda."

Armed with Kalashnikov assault rifles, ammunition jackets and, according to one
report, a grenade launcher, the killers were triumphant as they left the office,
shouting: "We have killed Charlie Hebdo! We have avenged the Prophet Mohammed!"
The first policemen on the scene were unprepared for what greeted them; arriving
on bicycles, they were forced to take cover until backup arrived moments later.
Around the corner, the gunmen exchanged fire with armed police who had arrived
by car, shouting "Allahu Akbar!" or "God is Great" as they did so.

They then shot dead their final victim, the policeman. Having rolled on to his
side to protect himself, the officer turned to look over his shoulder at the
approaching gunmen, before holding up his right hand. As the gunman who fired
the final shot left the scene, he held up his index finger, a common gesture
among Islamist terrorists. The murder was filmed from an upstairs window and
posted online.

Gérald Kierzec, 40, a casualty doctor who was among the first on the scene, told
The Daily Telegraph: "There was a first body lying in the lobby. Then I took the
stairs which were covered in blood. When I got to the second floor, there were
bodies lying one on top of another. It was carnage, with war wounds. There was
blood everywhere. I have never seen anything like it in my career."

Shortly before 3pm, a car was found burning outside a Paris synagogue. It was
unclear whether it was related to the terrorist attack. Mr Hollande called for
today to be a national day of mourning, and last night told the French people:
"Our best weapon is our unity. We must be ourselves, conscious that our best
weapon is our unity, the unity of all our fellow citizens in the face of this
trial. Nothing can divide us, nothing must oppose us, nothing must separate us."

The Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh wrote to Mr Hollande to send their "sincere
condolences to the families of those who have been killed and to those who have
been injured".

In its most recent edition, Charlie Hebdo carried a cartoon stating that there
had been no attacks in France so far, with a terrorist saying: "Wait - we have
until the end of January to present our new year wishes." Less than an hour
before the attack, its Twitter account posted a cartoon parodying the Isil
leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. It was captioned: "Best wishes. You too,
al-Baghdadi." He replies: "Especially to your health."

Mr Cabut once said his only regret was "not being ferocious enough" in his
caricatures. Mr Charbonnier, in 2012, borrowed a phrase that his friends would
say makes a fitting epitaph: "I would rather die standing than live on my
knees."

Jihadist among the gunmen named police

Police and anti-terrorist magistrates last night reportedly identified the three
assailants, two of whom are brothers.

The Franco-Algerian brothers, born in Paris's 10th arrondissement are French
nationals called Said (left) and Chérif Kouachi (right), aged 34 and 32.

Chérif was reportedly part of an Iraqi jihadist network dismantled in the nearby
19th arrondissement. He was sentenced to three years in prison with 18 months
suspended in relation to terrorism charges in May 2008. The brothers reportedly
came back from Syria this summer.

Hamyd Mourad, 18, is of no fixed abode. Last year, he was reportedly enrolled in
a lycée in Charleville-MeziÈres around 50 miles from the Champagne capital of
Reims, north-eastern France. Police were reportedly hunting for him in Reims
last night. His nationality is unknown.

KILLERS RAID OFFICE AND SHOOT DEAD 10

Around 11.20am, two hooded gunmen pull up in Citroen C3 and attack offices of
Charlie Hebdo, which had earlier tweeted image of al-Baghdadi. Building has had
police guard due to death threats to director Stephane Charbonnier (1), who had
price put on his head by al-Qaeda in 2013. Reporters from office next door take
refuge on roof (2). They say men are armed with Kalashnikov rifles and rocket
launcher. Corinne Ray, a cartoonist, forced at gunpoint to enter security code
for front door. Gunmen enter second floor office, "commando style", calling
journalists' surnames as they open fire (3), killing 10 and injuring at least
five. Massacre coincided with editorial meeting on day magazine went to press.
Ms Ray says: "It lasted five minutes... I had hidden under my desk. They spoke
French perfectly... they said they were al-Qaeda."

Gunmen left after 10 minutes. According to one report, they shouted: "We have
killed Charlie Hebdo! We have avenged the Prophet Mohammed!"

Three policemen on bicycles are first on scene (4).

15 SHOTS FIRED INTO POLICE CAR

When a police car blocks the gunmen's escape route down a narrow street, the
terrorists open fire, shouting "Allahu akbar", or "God is great", as they do so
(5).

One of the journalists taking refuge on the roof next door to the Charlie Hebdo
office takes a video of the incident. The rear windscreen of the Citroen appears
to have shattered. A police car is later photographed with 15 bullet holes in
its front windscreen

MEDICS RUSH TO SCENE OF CARNAGE

Paramedics evacuate wounded from the building (6 & 7) as police describe scene
inside as "carnage". Wandrille Lanos, a TV reporter, enters Charlie Hebdo
office. "There was a lot of people dead on the floor, and there was blood
everywhere." Paris prosecutor Francois Molins said that once in the building,
gunmen killed a security guard in reception before going upstairs to the
newsroom on the second floor.

President François Hollande rushes to the scene. "An act of indescribable
barbarity has just been committed today in Paris," he says.

With the gunmen still at large, Paris is placed on maximum terror alert, with
police and military protection at other newspaper offices that could be targets,
as well as tourist sites, department stores and metro stations.

POLICEMAN MURDERED ON STREET

Gunmen drive away, wounding a policeman, then knocking down several pedestrians.
They stop nearby in Boulevard Richard Lenoir and get out of black Citroen to
attack another policeman.

The hooded killers have automatic rifles. Driver sidesteps white rental van and
fires three shots, hitting policeman, who is left lying on pavement.

Further five shots fired, apparently by second gunman, as policeman rolls on to
his side, trying to protect himself. Policeman turns and looks over shoulder to
see gunmen approaching, then holds up right hand (8). First gunman runs past and
appears to shoot him in head with single shot (9). Policeman stops moving.

Holding guns across their chests, gunmen jog to Citroen shouting. One holds up a
finger, as if in triumph.

Passenger stoops down to pick up shoe he had lost as he got out of car (10), and
gunmen drive off.

THE GETAWAY CITROEN IS ABANDONED

After the black Citroen is discovered abandoned in a Paris street, police
forensic experts begin a detailed examination in a desperate search for clues to
uncover the identity of the gunmen and help point to where they could be (11). A
Renault Clio is hijacked and driven away. French interior minister says three
attackers are being sought.

MATT 'Be careful, they might have pens'

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Five cartoonists were among 12 killed in the attack on the French
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo yesterday. From left, the magazine's publisher,
known only as Charb, Jean Cabut, aka Cabu, Georges Wolinski, Tignous and Michel
RenaudSTEPHANE DE SAKUTIN/ ROLAND AMADON

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT

PARIS TERROR ATTACK: World shows solidarity as #JeSuisCharlie trends on Twitter

BYLINE: Uche Amako

LENGTH: 509 words


THE World responded in solidarity today in the wake of 12 people being killed
and four others critically injured after Muslim extremists attacked the office
of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.

brightcove.createExperiences;

The gunmen attacked the offices of Charlie Hebdo, a publication which published
controversial cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad in 2011.

In the aftermath of the violence, #JeSuisCharlie began trending around the world
on social media.

Television personality Piers Morgan and Manchester City captain Vincent Kompany
were among those to use the hashtag which translates as "we are all Charlie".

Many used the words to express solidarity with those killed during the
shootings.

An image with the phrase with a black background was among the many being used
to show their sympathy for the victims and their families.

Journalists also used the hashtag to show their backing for free speech.

The pen is mightier than the sword. #JeSuisCharlie

- Piers Morgan January 7, 2015

Le Kalashnikov peut réduire l'individu au silence, le peuple en revanche lui
devient plus bruyant. Liberté d'expression! #JeSuisCharlie

- Vincent Kompany January 7, 2015

Freedom of the press is a fundamental right. Journalists don't deserve to die
defending that cause #JeSuisCharlie

- Aubrey Allegretti January 7, 2015

In solidarity with all the journalists pursuing their profession and freedom of
speech. #jesuischarlie pic.twitter.com/8iVDfwyWXy

- Johanna P Altenstedt January 7, 2015

If you kill men for making fun of your ideas, you need to rethink your ideas.
#JeSuisCharlie

- LiesBernaer January 7, 2015

If your religion demands you to kill, exclude or discriminate people, you should
question your beliefs. #JeSuisCharlie

- Marga January 7, 2015

I'm #muslim & will forever defend freedom of speech #JeSuisCharlie.Terrorists
make a mockery of Islam. pic.twitter.com/Q4qfPVmAMy

- Suzanne Sallam January 7, 2015

Human rights watch statement on #CharlieHebdo attack pic.twitter.com/BLTftOqOVQ

- Mina January 7, 2015

The fanatics fear our rationalism, pluralism, freedom & humour, they yearn to
provoke hatred, don't let them #JeSuisCharlie @Charlie_Hebdo

- Andrew Anderson January 7, 2015

A day of mourning for all who value life, laughter, cartooning, satire and the
freedom to publish critiques of extremism. #JeSuisCharlie

- Ernesto Priego January 7, 2015 Related articles VIDEO: Paris gunmen fire shots
at innocent civilians in shocking footage PARIS TERROR ATTACK: Why satirical
magazine Charlie Hebdo was targetted PARIS TERROR ATTACK: 12 murdered as Muslim
extremists assault office of satirical magazine

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT

PARIS TERROR ATTACK: Murdered Charlie Hebdo cartoonist was 'targeted by al-Qaida
in 2013'

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 497 words


A LEADING cartoonist murdered by suspected al-Qaida gunmen was a long-term
target of Islamic extremists.

Stephane Charbonnier was one of at least 12 people killed when men armed with
machine guns and an RPG stormed the Paris offices of satirical magazine Charlie
Hebdo.

Mr Charbonnier was named in Inspire, the online magazine published by al-Qaida.

The article, tiled Wanted Dead or Alive for Crimes Against Islam, was published
in 2013.

Charbonnier, 47, known as Charb, was among four of France's top cartoonists who
were killed during the terrorist attack.

Also executed by the masked gunmen were Georges Wolinski, Bernard Verlhac and
Jean Cabut.

There are reports the shooters asked for the men by name when they stormed the
building in east Paris.

One of the killers was heard shouting: "The Prophet has been avenged."

One witness heard one of the attackers yell: "You say to the media, it was
al-Qaida in Yemen."

A message from one of the Paris gunmen

Charlie Hebdo is known as a more extreme version of Britain's Private Eye and
has previously been targeted for its provocative messages about Islam.

The magazine's offices were damaged in 2011 when it appointed the prophet
Muhammed as its "guest editor".

Tributes have poured in following the attack with world leaders condemning the
atrocity.

In the aftermath of the violence, #JeSuisCharlie began trending around the world
on social media.

The Queen sent her "sincere condolences to the families" of those killed while
Prime Minister David Cameron described it as "an appalling terrorist outrage".

brightcove.createExperiences;

He said: "We must never allow the values we hold dear, of democracy, of freedom
of speech, to be damaged by these terrorists.

"We must stand against what they have done."

Home Secretary Theresa May will chair an emergency Cobra meeting on Thursday
morning in response to the crisis.

French President Francois Holland, who visited the site shortly after the
attack, said: "France is today in shock, in front of a terrorist attack.

"This newspaper was threatened several times in the past and we need to show we
are a united country.

"We have to be from, and we have to be stand strong with international community
in the coming days of weeks.

"We will punish the attackers. We will look for the people responsible."

The Foreign Office immediately updated its advice for tourists heading to Paris.

"There is a high threat from terrorism," the statement read.

"If you're in Paris take extra care and follow advice of French authorities."

Related articles PARIS TERROR ATTACK: 12 murdered as Muslim extremists storm
office of satirical magazine PARIS TERROR ATTACK: Why satirical magazine Charlie
Hebdo was targetted VIDEO: Paris gunmen fire shots at innocent civilians in
shocking footage If Frenchy and Paris Hilton had a baby: Meet bonkers socialite
Angelyne PARIS TERROR ATTACK: World shows solidarity as #JeSuisCharlie trends on
Twitter

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 12:00 AM GMT

PARIS TERROR ATTACK: al-Qaida killers screamed 'We have avenged the prophet!'

BYLINE: Matthew Young

LENGTH: 544 words


TWELVE people were gunned down at work in cold blood by terrorists in
Wednesday's massacre.

Three masked fanatics armed with Kalashnikov assault rifles unleashed a
Mumbai-style attack on staff at a satirical magazine.

It was targeted in revenge for running what Muslim extremists claimed were
anti-Islamic cartoons and articles.

The killers shouted in Arabic: "We have avenged the prophet!" Among the dead
were two Paris policemen who had rushed to the scene on their bicycles.

The murder of one of the officers was caught on video.

He was lying injured and as one of the gang ran past him he raised his hand,
pleading for mercy, but was shot in the head at close range.

The attack, the first of its kind in Europe, sent shockwaves around the world
and left the French capital on lockdown.

Police were closing in on three suspects - two brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi
aged 34 and 32, from Paris, and an 18-year-old pal Hamyd Mourad.

Officials denied reports the trio had been arrested as they headed for the
Belgian border.

Despite a shoot-out with armed officers, the "calm and highly disciplined" men
escaped in a hijacked car, later found abandoned.

David Cameron and US President Barack Obama have promised to help France in
tracking down the killers while the Queen also sent a message of support.

Survivor cartoonist, Corrine Rey

The extremists struck at 11.30am local time at the offices of Charlie Hebdo
magazine just as the editorial conference began.

They called out the names of several staff before blasting them to death,
screaming: "Allahu Akbar!" and "We have avenged the prophet!"

They were heard yelling throughout the slaughter and are also believed to have
used a rocket propelled grenade.

Mobile phone footage showed the militants firing towards the building as they
made their escape.

The dead included four of the most famous cartoonists in France, including
editor Stephane Charbonnier, who regularly poked fun at the Prophet Mohammed and
Islam.

In total, 10 staff members and two police officers died with another 20 people
injured, at least four of them seriously.

brightcove.createExperiences;

Survivor cartoonist Corrine Rey said two hooded men threatened her as she
entered the building with her young daughter, demanding she took them upstairs.

She added: "They fired on Wolinski, Cabut, it lasted five minutes, I sheltered
under a desk.

They spoke perfect French and claimed to be from al Qaida."

Within hours Twitter saw the hashtag "#jesuischarlie", I am Charlie, trending.
It came after the gunmen boasted they had "killed Charlie Hebdo" as they fled
the scene.

British tourists in Paris were yesterday warned to take extra care in the French
capital.

President François Hollande said his nation was "in shock" and vowed to hunt and
punish the murderers.

The Queen said: "Prince Philip and I send our sincere condolences to the
families of those who have been killed and to those who have been injured in the
attack in Paris."

Related articles VIDEO: Paris gunmen fire shots at innocent civilians in
shocking footage PARIS TERROR ATTACK: World shows solidarity as #JeSuisCharlie
trends on Twitter Charlie Hebdo: Murdered Paris cartoonist was 'targeted by
al-Qaida in 2013'

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cartoonists, man... grim police officers and a maintenance toll of ruthless
terrorist attack

BYLINE: Benedict Moore-Bridger; Rashid Razaq

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 889 words


DETAILS of the 12 victims of the Paris massacre emerged today including the
first picture of the hero police officer who was executed in the street.

A building maintenance worker was the first to be shot dead by the terrorists
after they initially went to the wrong office. Frédéric Boisseau, 42, was killed
in the reception of the satirical magazine's headquarters.

Gunmen had initially stormed No6 Rue Nicolas-Appert and screamed: "Is this
Charlie Hebdo?" But after being informed that they had the wrong address the men
ran to the magazine's headquarters, two doors down.

Once inside, they demanded to know where the editorial offices were, before
opening fire, killing Mr Boisseau, who was married with two children, aged 10
and 12.

Muslim policeman Ahmed Merabet was gunned down at point blank range as he
pleaded for his life.

The gunmen's principal target was the magazine's editor Stephane Charbonnier.
Known under his pen name Charb, the 47-year-old was on a hit list drawn up by al
Qaeda-linked jihadi publication Inspire for publishing cartoons depicting the
Prophet Mohammed.

Born in Conflans-Sainte-Honorine, northern France, he joined Charlie Hebdo in
the early Nineties, becoming editor in 2009. Despite having to live under police
guard, Charb responded to death threats with defiance, saying: "I'd rather die
standing than live on my knees."

Jean "Cabu" Cabut, 76, the publication's award-winning lead cartoonist was also
targeted. The veteran satirist, who started drawing aged 16, returned from
military service in Algeria with a desire to provoke and mock anyone who took
themselves too seriously.

He drew the front-page image of the Prophet in 2007 when Charlie Hebdo published
the controversial Danish cartoons. He had defended his work saying: "Sometimes
laughter can hurt - but laughter, humour and mockery are our only weapons."

Bernard Verlhac, 57, who drew cartoons under the name "Tignous" was an avowed
pacifist, a member of a group of artists called Cartoonists for Peace, who was
known for his coruscating wit and addressing capitalism and social inequality in
his work.

Georges Wolinski, 80, was born in Tunis to a Polish Jewish father and
Franco-Italian mother. A member of Hari-Kari, the predecessor publication to
Charlie Hebdo, he overcame personal tragedy with the death of his wife in a car
crash, leaving him to raise two young daughters on his own.

The cartoonist said that he could not imagine retiring as "drawing was his
life." His daughter shared an image of his empty desk today with the caption
translated as: "Dad is gone, not Wolinski."

Columnist Bernard Maris, 68, a father-of-two, was a Left-wing economist known to
readers as "Uncle Bernard". Staff cartoonist Philippe Honoré, 73, was a regular
contributor with two to three drawings a week. Also among the victims was
Mustapha Ourrad, a copy editor of Algerian descent and Elsa Cayat, a
psycho-analyst and regular contributor. Michel Renaud, a former journalist for
Europe 1 and Le Figaro and founder of a travel-themed arts festival, who was not
a member of staff but had been invited to the offices as guest editor, was also
killed. As well as nine journalists, two police officers were murdered.

Brigadier Franck Brinsolaro, 49, a protection officer for Mr Charbonnier, was
shot dead inside the building.

His wife, Ingrid, is the editor in chief of L'Eveil Normand, a weekly news
publication in the north-west of France. They are understood to have two
children. Officer Ahmed Merabet, 42, was killed as the gunmen fled. Mr Merabet
was from a police station in Paris's 11th arrondissement - the neighbourhood
where Charlie Hebdo's office is located.

He had arrived at the scene on a bicycle with another officer when he was shot
and injured. As he lay defenceless on the ground, one of the gunmen approached.
A harrowing Twitter video showed the officer raising his hands for mercy and
asking "Do you want to kill me?" before the terrorist replies: "Okay chief" and
shoots him in the head at point blank range.

Maintenance worker Mr Boissea had worked for Sodexo for 15 years and was
responsible for the team that looked after the building on behalf of the Real
Estate Board of the city of Paris.

In an email to staff, Michel Landel, director general of Sodexo, said: "We all
firmly believe that it is intolerable that one of our colleagues could lose his
life in such tragic and unjust circumstances and for a cause so contrary to our
values." He added: "All the partners of Sodexo send their most profound thoughts
to the family and friends of our colleague as also to the men and women who have
been touched by this drama."

full list of victims Pictured, from far left: BERNARD MARIS economist and
columnist PHILIPPE HONORÉ cartoonist GEORGES WOLINSKI cartoonist STEPHANE
CHARBONNIER editor and cartoonist JEAN CABUT cartoonist BERNARD VERLHAC
cartoonist ELSA CAYAT analyst and columnist MICHEL RENAUD former chief-ofstaff
of the mayor of Clermont Also killed: AHMED MERABET police officer; MUSTAPHA
OURRAD copy editor; FRÉDÉRIC BOISSEAU maintenance worker; and FRANCK BRINSOLARO
brigadier in the protection service

'Sometimes laughter can hurt - but laughter, humour and mockery are our only
weapons' Cartoonist Jean 'Cabu' Cabut

'We firmly believe it is intolerable that one of our colleagues could lose his
life in such an unjust way' Michel Landel

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Killed: policeman Ahmed Merabet, also inset, lies defenceless as the
gunmen approach. Shortly after, he was shot in the head

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 3:08 PM GMT

Britain step up security at ports and border controls after Paris 'terrorist'
attack

BYLINE: John Twomey & Rebecca Perring

LENGTH: 1013 words


SECURITY has been stepped up at British ports and border controls in the wake of
yesterday's Charlie Hebdo magazine "terrorist" shooting, which left 12 people
dead in Paris.

PA

Tributes on the ground as people take part in a vigil in Trafalgar Square

As thousands of French police officers hunt for suspected gunmen, brothers
Cherif and Saïd Kouachi, in northern France, there will be tighter controls at
UK passport checkpoints including the Gare du Nord station in Paris and other
Eurostar terminals.

Cars and lorries at Calais and other British ports also face greater scrutiny.

 Home Secretary Theresa May - who chaired a meeting of the government's COBRA
security committee - said: "Following the attacks we took the precautionary step
yesterday of increasing security at the French-UK border.

**CLICK HERE TO SEE OTHER TERRORISM ATTACKS OVER THE PAST 15 YEARS**

"Officers from border force, the police and other organisations operating at the
UK border have intensified checks on passengers, on vehicles, and on goods
coming from France and other parts of Europe."

At the COBRA meeting, the terror threat level remained unchanged. It is now at
"severe" which means that an attack is highly likely - one below "critical"
which means an attack is considered imminent.

The Prime Minister's spokeswoman added: "The intelligence does not suggest there
is any change in the threat level here [in the UK] but on a precautionary basis
we have tightened up border security, particularly at our juxtaposed controls.
For example at ports people going through them will see increased car and truck
searches, a bit more scanning of freight.

PA

Police car at the scene of the massacre

"They will also see an increased visible presence, for example at our juxtaposed
control at Gare du Nord in Paris. This is about looking at what we think is
appropriate given the incident, but is not based on any change to the threat
level."

MI5 have offered their full support to their French counterparts while a
Metropolitan Police officer will also join a UK counter-terrorism team already
working in Paris.

Andrew Parker, Director General MI5 said:  "It is too early for us to come to
judgements about the precise details or origin of the attack but it is a
terrible reminder of the intentions of those who wish us harm.  As you would
expect, we are offering our French colleagues our full support as they respond".



The announcement came as French police continue to hunt for the Kouachi
brothers. Local reports suggest that two men fitting the description of the
brothers - described as "armed and dangerous" - were seen at a petrol station in
L'Aisne, near Reims, about 50 miles northeast of Paris this morning.

Yesterday David Cameron condemned the "barbaric" shootings, as British police
were on full alert for a Paris-style attack and Britons travelling to France
were warned to be on their guard.

Security sources acknowledge that atrocities such as the French massacre and the
London murder of soldier Lee Rigby are extremely difficult to prevent.

But even small-scale terrorist operations need planning and the communications
between suspects can be monitored.

Spies at GCHQ will be on the look-out for any increase in electronic "chatter"
between extremists.

Between 500 and 2,000 British Muslims are believed to have travelled to Syria to
fight with Islamic State militants. There are fears that many have returned
home, ready to continue jihad in Britain.

Commenting on the Paris atrocity, security expert Raffaello Pantucci said: "The
fact that there were a few gunmen suggests the attack is more coordinated and
organised than a random, lone attack.

"Obviously there are lots of targets in Britain that are very similar and look
like this. So far, British police have been successful in stopping people who
have tried to carry out these attacks.

"It's just much harder to get your hands on weaponry here than it is on the
Continent. This kind of threat has already existed. This will heighten it even
more."

Related articles Paris massacre is proof of Islamist threat to Europe, says LEO
MCKINSTRY Paris shooting: Who said what about the Charlie Hebdo attack Paris
shooting: Three veteran cartoonists among 12 victims of Charlie Hebdo attack
Cartoonist: I cowered under desk after gunmen threatened me
brightcove.createExperiences;

Analysis by Shiraz Maher - Senior research fellow at the International Centre
for the Study of Radicalisation

THE Paris attack highlights the new reality of Islamist terrorism in Western
societies where plots are developed using relatively unsophisticated methods. We
have seen it repeatedly in recent months when firearms have been used to stage
attacks in Australia, Canada, and Belgium.

The same weapons were used in Paris, but what makes this attack different is the
technical proficiency displayed by the gunmen. Whereas previous attacks appeared
desperate and amateurish, the Parisian gunmen moved in military formations, as
would be expected of experienced soldiers.

There was no anxious or indiscriminate shooting, even when confronted by police.
Instead, the attackers moved with eerily calm precision, at one point
nonchalantly executing an already wounded policeman on the pavement.

All this points to highly trained terrorists who were able to learn and perfect
their skills in a permissive environment, of which there is no shortage today.
Syria is the most obvious place but terrorists also hold territory in Pakistan,
Yemen, Somalia, and Libya.

Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula issued a "kill list" not long ago that
identified targets for so-called "crimes against Islam". The editor of Charlie
Hebdo was among those named.

Security officials have long feared this type of attack, precisely because it is
so hard to detect and contain. Less dramatic than a bomb attack, it is just as
deadly, terrifying - and much easier to plan.

Well over 2,000 Europeans are fighting in Syria alone - half of them from
France. As that conflict continues to rage, this type of attack will sadly
characterise the form of terrorism we can expect in Europe for years to come.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 9:35 AM GMT

Chilling attack in France raises the terror stakes

LENGTH: 494 words


YESTERDAY'S attack on the offices of the French magazine Charlie Hebdo provides
but one example of jihadists' warped morality.

brightcove.createExperiences;

GETTY

Tributes of candles and pens at the Place de la Republique after the Charlie
Hebdo attack

To murder people in this way because of what they have written or drawn goes
against our values of freedom and tolerance.

It is also an affront to our basic sense of humanity and compassion.

What is most worrying about the attack on Charlie Hebdo is the level of
expertise exhibited by the terrorists; they even managed to escape after
carrying out the attack.

This is indicative of a well-made and executed plan carried out by people who
are highly trained.

French authorities thwarted a number of terror plots in the weeks and months
before this atrocity.

However, it is a harsh truth that it only requires the security services to fail
once for the type of attack we saw yesterday to take place successfully.

Furthermore, we must not forget that Islamist terrorism threatens the whole of
the Western world.

With terrorists honing their methods of attack, the task of stopping them will
become even more difficult.

Our Government and the security services must do whatever it takes to maintain
their admirable record of preventing such horrors here.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
---

No justice for OAP victim

PENSIONER and former police officer Len Jones expected justice to be done when
he was brutally attacked while driving his car - especially as he managed to
write down the perpetrator's number plate.

Instead, after taking three weeks to arrest the assailant, North Wales police
let him off with a caution.

Mr Jones is understandably angry, it is not acceptable for somebody who carries
out an unprovoked assault on a pensioner to be let off with a slap on the wrist.

He was right when he said: "How can we all feel safe? That's no deterrent."

The overuse of toothless police cautions sends the message to criminals that
punishments are inconsequential and the law is there to be broken.

More suspects need to be brought before judges and magistrates where a sentence
that fits the crime can be handed down.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
---

In the frame for bonanza

ONE family is celebrating a windfall after selling a painting they were told was
worth between £100 and £200 for £58,000.

A bidding war broke out when buyers realised the image of a house set in a snowy
landscape was by renowned Chinese artist He Xuren.

With fees included the buyer ended up paying 700 times the original estimate of
the painting's worth.

The outcome was picture perfect for the sellers though.

Related articles Now our cookers will feel the heat from Brussels Prime Minister
refuses to back scandal-hit Prince Andrew on sex claims Paris massacre is proof
of Islamist threat to Europe, says LEO MCKINSTRY

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Chilling attack in France raises the terror stakes;
DAILY EXPRESS THE NORTHERN & SHELL BUILDING NUMBER 10 LOWER THAMES STREET,
LONDON EC3R 6EN Tel: 0208 612 7000 (outside UK: +44 208 612 7000)

SECTION: BUSINESS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 198 words


YESTERDAY'S attack on the offices of the French magazine Charlie Hebdo provides
but one example of jihadists' warped morality. To murder people in this way
because of what they have written or drawn goes against our values of freedom
and tolerance. It is also an affront to our basic sense of humanity and
compassion.

What is most worrying about the attack on Charlie Hebdo is the level of
expertise exhibited by the terrorists, they even managed to escape after
carrying out the attack. This is indicative of a well-made and executed plan
carried out by people who are highly trained.

French authorities thwarted a number of terror plots in the weeks and months
before this atrocity. It is a harsh truth that it only requires the security
services to fail once for the type of attack we saw yesterday to take place.

Furthermore as Leo McKinstry writes on this page we must not forget that
Islamist terrorism threatens the whole of the Western world. With terrorists
honing their methods of attack the task of stopping them will become even more
difficult. Our Government and the security services must do whatever it takes to
maintain their admirable record of preventing such horrors here.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Falmouth Packet

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Police in Devon and Cornwall hold silence in memory of officers killed in Paris
terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 96 words


Devon and Cornwall police officers have marked 24 hours since the terror attack
in Paris by remembering those killed with a moment of silence.

At the police headquarters, this was marked by a discrete ceremony at 10.30 am
which was attended by a few of our officers including the Chief Constable Shaun
Sawyer, ACC Paul Netherton and the force chaplain Sarah Jeffrey.

A spokesman said that staff and officers across Devon and Cornwall also took a
moment to reflect and remember those lost in this abhorrent attack.

Adding: "Our thoughts are very much with those in Paris and France."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 8:35 PM GMT

The Guardian view on the response to terror: the attack on Charlie Hebdo was a
crime, not an act of war;
Across Europe, these are dangerous times. Political and religious leaders must
maintain the calm

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: COMMENT IS FREE

LENGTH: 703 words


If the world learned one thing from George W Bush, it was that it is a terrible
mistake to confuse a crime, however monstrous, for war. After 9/11, the
belligerent rhetoric of the war on terror fostered deluded ideas of a "victory",
legitimised the torture that still stains America's moral standing and licensed
ruinous misadventures overseas. In this difficult hour for France, and Europe
more widely, a calmer fury must prevail.

In the wake of the devastating assault on Charlie Hebdo, some voices, not only
on the right, are claiming that France is in a state of "war". Nicolas Sarkozy,
the former president, said that faced with barbarity, civilisation must defend
itself. These are difficult and dangerous times. Extremists of all strands may
be tempted to resort to violence in a logic of revenge against Muslims at large
: within 24 hours of the attack, there had been reports of at least five
anti-Muslim attacks in France. Populist far-right sentiment may channel anger
against the country's 6-million-strong Muslim population, the largest in Europe,
in an attempt at collective scapegoating. They will only be further provoked by
some fanatical voices that are using social media to express satisfaction that
the prophet Muhammad has been "avenged", the very word used by the terrorists
themselves as they unleashed their attack. These are worrying trends, to be
condemned as much as the attack itself.

But this is not the tenor of the overall reaction in France. That has been
characterised by an admirable calm. The language is of national unity and
resilience in the face of an act of hatred and intolerance aimed at one of the
pillars of democracy and the Republic: freedom of speech. Thursday was a day of
national mourning and across the country, tens of thousands of French citizens
came out on to the streets and squares to express their outrage and pay homage
to the victims. They have held up pencils and banners saying "Je suis Charlie",
in a massive movement of solidarity. A campaign is growing to help Charlie Hebdo
survive and hold high its message of free speech, free satire and provocative
journalism. All political parties have joined in to say that French democracy
will not succumb to terror. Religious leaders, and representatives of all
faiths, have called for tolerance, insisting that Islam could never be the
banner under which such a terrible act could be committed.

But France is also a country whose domestic stability will now be tested in many
ways. Its social model has weaknesses that it would be a mistake to minimise and
that risk feeding further turmoil. Many young French Muslims feel
disenfranchised in the context of high unemployment and racism that has been
growing in recent years. Islamic radicalisation has grown in this fertile
ground, especially in the desolate suburbs of French cities where immigrant
populations are often concentrated. That in turn has put France's secular model
under strain. In a Republic that considers the separation of state and religion
an essential pillar of democratic life, it will take greater efforts to ensure
that this core value is widely understood by the thousands of young Muslims who
feel rejected by a society that offers them neither jobs nor hope. Some have
come to resent the staples of France's stark secularism and turned to radical
Islam as a way of protesting a state of affairs - joblessness, discrimination -
that leaves them left on the side of the road. Sometimes such radicalism becomes
a perverse refuge in a quest for identity and self-affirmation. The rallies of
solidarity that will take place on Sunday, backed by all the main parties - the
participation of the Front National is still in question - could be a decisive
moment in the healing of France.

But Wednesday's attack was not something that happened only to France.
Solidarity towards Charlie Hebdo has been flowing in from all parts of Europe,
and beyond. But alongside this welcome and necessary - even indispensable -
reaction is a darker side. It will fuel the dangerous rightwing populism that
echoes in the neonazi Golden Dawn in Greece and in the angry mobs on the streets
of Dresden. It's not only France that must remain steady under pressure.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 2:22 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo attack: the 12 victims of the terror attack;
Satirical magazine's journalists and cartoonists were killed in attack that also
claimed lives of two police officers and a maintenance workerCharlie Hebdo
attack: follow the latest developments

BYLINE: Anne Penketh in Paris

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1135 words

Stéphane Charbonnier, aka Charb, 47

Charbonnier had been editor of Charlie Hebdo since 2009 and led the paper's
charge against the taboo on depicting the prophet Muhammad, in the name of
freedom of expression. He had been under police protection since November 2011,
when the satirical weekly published a special edition mocking the prophet and
Islam, and a firebomb attack destroyed the paper's offices. e was a well-known
cartoonist who had previously worked for the Franco-Belgian comic magazines
L'Echo des Savanes and Fluide Glacial, as well as the communist daily Humanité.

In 2012, following a further controversy over the magazine's depiction of
Muhammad, Charbonnier told the avant-garde magazine Tel Quel: "I'm not scared of
reprisals. I don't have kids or a wife, I've got no car, no credit.

"It might sound a bit pompous but I prefer to die standing than live on my
knees."

Jean Cabut, aka Cabu, 75

One of France's best-known cartoonists, Cabut published many popular comic books
in the 1970s and 80s. The bespectacled, mop-haired caricaturist worked for the
majority of the country's satirical magazines during his career, including Le
Canard Enchaîné and the now-folded Hara-Kiri, as well as Charlie Hebdo.

His talent for instant caricature made him a frequent participant in political
television shows, during which he would produce cartoons live.

He studied art in Paris and his first published work was with the newspaper
L'Union de Reims. His creation of the cartoon character Le Grand Duduche, a
bespectacled schoolboy, led to publication of a series of comic strip books in
the 1960s.

Georges Wolinski, 80

The cartoonist Wolinski was a pillar of the French satirical world and had a
long association with Charlie Hebdo, having been editor between 1970 and 1981.

Born in Tunis, the son of a Franco-Italian mother and Polish Jewish father, he
was brought up by his maternal grandparents in France.

During his long career he worked for the majority of French satirical magazines
as well as mainstream newspapers and magazines including France-Soir,
Libération, L'Humanité, Le Nouvel Observateur and Paris Match. In May 1968, he
founded the paper L'Enrag. He received the Legion of Honour, France's highest
distinction, in 2005.

Bernard Verlhac, aka Tignous, 58

Verlhac was a prolific cartoonist whose work was published in satirical
magazines including Charlie Hebdo and the Franco-Belgian comic magazine Fluide
Glacial, as well as French news magazines.

He began drawing comic strips in 1980 before moving into the press. He was the
author of a 2011 book entitled Five Years Under Sarkozy, about the former
centre-right president Nicolas Sarkozy, who was a frequent target of the
cartoonist.

Bernard Maris, 68

Maris was an economist and journalist who wrote the weekly Uncle Bernard column
in Charlie Hebdo. The author of a book on Keynes, he graduated in economics at
Toulouse, where he became a professor.

At the time of his death he was teaching economics at the University of
Paris-VIII and was on the board of Charlie Hebdo. He was also a frequent
television debater on economic issues, on which he had a reputation for being
anti-globalisation. He was a former scientific adviser to Attac, the
international movement working for social, environmental and democratic
alternatives in the globalisation process.

Earlier in his career, Maris was a lecturer in micro-economics at the University
of Iowa in the US and worked at the central bank of Peru.

Philippe Honoré, aka Honoré, 73

Honoré, was the artist who drew the last cartoon tweeted by the weekly only
moments before the massacre. It shows the leader of Isis, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi,
presenting his new year message, saying "and especially good health!" Honoré was
a self-educated artist who published his first illustration in the regional
newspaper Sud-Ouest at the age of 16. He went on to work for major French
dailies, including Le Monde and Libération, and had been with Charlie Hebdo
since its foundation in 1992.

Michel Renaud

A visitor to Charlie Hebdo, Renaud, from Clermont-Ferrand, was a former
journalist who founded a cultural festival in his home city in central France.

Elsa Cayat

The only female victim of the attacks was a psychoanalyst, author and columnist
on Charlie Hebdo. Cayat was at the magazine's editorial meeting. Her column was
entitled Charlie Divan (Charlie couch) and appeared every two weeks. In 2007 she
published Un homme + Une femme = Quoi? (A man plus a woman equals what?),
dealing with sexual relationships.

Mustapha Ourrad

A subeditor on Charlie Hebdo, Ourrad, from the Kabylie region of Algeria, had
previously worked for a magazine serving mutualist federations in France, Viva.
He was an orphan who came to France at the age of 20 thanks to funding from
friends, according to Le Monde. Friends respected the self-educated Ourrad for
his erudition and self-deprecation.

Ahmed Merabet

Merabet, a beat bobby attached to the local police station near Charlie Hebdo,
was killed at point blank range after challenging two gunmen as they escaped in
a black Citroen C3 from the magazine's offices. A Muslim originally from
Tunisia, he was on patrol in the area and called to the scene. One of the gunmen
shot him in the groin, causing him to fall onto the pavement. In a video which
has since been removed from the internet, he can be seen raising his arm as
though to protect himself against the killers. One of them asks Merabet: "do you
want to kill us?" Merabet replies "no, it's OK mate" ("non, c'est bon, chef" in
French). The second gunman then shot him in the head. Another policeman who
witnessed the shooting cried out "he's dead, he's dead", prompting scenes of
panic on the boulevard where police reinforcements quickly arrived. Merabet was
unmarried but had a girlfriend, according to a colleague in the police union.

Franck Brinsolaro, 49

Brinsolaro was the police bodyguard of Charlie Hebdo editor Stéphane
Charbonnier. The officer, who had worked for the police protection service since
2013, was in the editorial room where the attack took place. A police union
spokesman said that the number of death threats against the satirical magazine's
editor had increased in recent days.

Frédéric Boisseau

Boisseau was a maintenance worker who was in the reception area of the building
housing the magazine with a colleague when the gunmen burst in and asked where
Charlie Hebdo was located, after initially going to the wrong address. Boisseau,
who had worked for the facilities management company Sodexo for 15 years, was
shot dead. The company paid tribute to Boisseau on its website, expressing
condolences to his family and those of the other victims. Sodexo said it is
"intolerable that one of our colleagues lost his life in such tragic and unjust
circumstances, and for a cause which is so contrary to our values".

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Manhunt after 12 shot dead in terror attack at magazine

BYLINE: Caroline Woollard

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 794 words


A MASSIVE police operation was under way last night after three hooded Islamist
terrorists shot dead 12 people, including two policemen, and critically wounded
four others at the offices of a satirical magazine in Paris.

The killers, who stormed into the newsroom of Charlie Hebdo with AK-47 assault
rifles, killed its editor, cartoonists and other staff. The publication had been
at the centre of controversy over cartoons it published which ridiculed the
Prophet Muhammad.

Last night special forces were raiding properties in the city of Reims, where
one of the suspects, identified in reports as 18-year-old Hamyd Mourad, had
lived. Some unconfirmed reports said one suspect was dead and two others were in
custody.

The two other suspects were French-born brothers, Said and Cherif Kouachi, aged
32 and 34, who lived in Paris. There were reports one of the brothers had been
jailed for involvement in Jihadism in Iraq.

Amid heightened security in Paris last night, 5,000 people held candlelit vigils
in the city's main Place de la République in support of the right to freedom of
speech. Thousands more flooded on to the streets of Marseille, Lyon and
Clermont-Ferrand.

In London's Trafalgar Square, the French national anthem was sung and there were
similar scenes at the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin. Those gathered held up mobile
phones bearing the words  'Je Suis Charlie' [I am Charlie], while one sign in
Paris  said: "Not Afraid."

French President Francois Hollande, who announced a national day of mourning
today, declared: "France is in shock."

Mr Hollande described the atrocity as "an act of exceptional barbarity" and said
people had been "murdered in a cowardly manner".

He told reporters at the scene: "We are threatened because we are a country of
liberty."

He later went on television to call for national unity.

Bernard Cazeneuve, the French Interior Minister, insisted all government means
had been mobilised to "neutralise the three criminals who have committed this
barbaric act".

The terrorists struck at about 11.30am as the staff at Charlie Hebdo gathered
for a daily editorial meeting.

Masked and hooded men dressed in black entered the premises and opened fire with
assault rifles. Reports suggested as many as 50 shots were fired. The terrorists
exchanged fire with police in the street. Video footage showed one of the
attackers approaching a wounded officer as he lay on the ground. The gunman then
shot him in the head.

Witnesses described how they heard the terrorists shouting: "We have avenged the
Prophet Muhammad" and "Allahu Akbar" [God is Great].

The gunmen escaped by car, which they later abandoned in a street in northern
Paris. They then hijacked a second vehicle.

A police spokesman said they appeared to have opened fire indiscriminately. "It
was carnage, absolute butchery," he declared.

France has been on alert for militant Islamist attacks after several incidents
before Christmas, including cars being driven into shoppers in Nantes and Dijon.

The French authorities denied the attacks were linked but raised the security
level in Paris to its highest. Hundreds of soldiers were deployed on to the
streets.

The attack on Charlie Hebdo comes amid rising tension in France about
immigration and the influence of Islam on society. In 2011, the magazine angered
some Muslims after publishing cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad; a day later its
offices were fire-bombed. One of yesterday's victims, editor Stephane
Charbonnier, 47, had received death threats in the past and was living under
police protection.

The magazine's last tweet just before the time of the shooting showed a cartoon
image of the Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. The Islamic State terror
group has previously warned it intended to strike against France.

Yesterday's attack is believed to be the deadliest in France since 1961 when
right-wing extremists who wanted to keep Algeria French bombed a train, killing
28 people.

Among the 12 dead were several cartoonists but one who survived, Corinne "Coco"
Rey, said the shooting lasted five minutes. "I sheltered under a desk ... They
spoke perfect French (and) claimed to be from al Qaeda."

Wandrille Lanos, a TV reporter who works across the road from Charlie Hebdo, was
one of the first people to enter the premises after the attack. He said: "There
were a lot of people dead on the floor and there was blood everywhere."

Barack Obama condemned the "horrific shooting", offering to provide any
assistance needed "to help bring these terrorists to justice".

David Cameron told MPs: "We stand with the French people in the fight against
terror and defending the freedom of the press."  The Queen sent her condolences
to the victims' families.

First Minister Nicola Sturgeon condemned the "horrific and appalling crime".

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 3:56 PM GMT

Paris terror attack: British port and border security stepped up in wake of
shooting

BYLINE: Andrew Grice

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 428 words


Security has been stepped up at British ports and border controls in the wake of
yesterday's terrorist attack in Paris, Downing Street announced today.

Cars and lorries will face  greater scrutiny in Calais and British ports and
there will be tighter controls at UK passport checkpoints including the Gare du
Nord station in Paris and other Eurostar terminals.

The measures were reported to a meeting of Cobra, the Whitehall emergency
committee, chaired by Theresa May, the Home Secretary.  They were not ordered by
ministers but were implemented by police and security chiefs yesterday after the
Paris attack.

Today's meeting was told that the security threat level in the UK will remain at
"severe," meaning an attack is highly likely. It will not be raised to
"critical", the highest level, which means an attack is considered imminent.

Read more:Live: Paris attacks day 2Suspects spotted in northern FranceFemale
police officer killed in southern Paris

The Cobra session was also informed that a Metropolitan Police officer will join
a UK counter-terrorism team already working in Paris to co-ordinate a response
to the Paris atrocity. Terror plots foiled by British security since 7/7 attack

The Prime Minister's spokeswoman said: "The intelligence does not suggest there
is any change in the threat level here [in the UK] but on a precautionary basis
we have tightened up border security, particularly at our juxtaposed controls.
For example at ports people going through them will see increased car and truck
searches, a bit more scanning of freight.

"They will also see an increased visible presence, for example at our juxtaposed
control at Gare du Nord in Paris. This is about looking at what we think is
appropriate given the incident, but is not based on any change to the threat
level."

British Transport said it would be increasing its patrols at London St Pancras
rail station, where Eurostar trains from Paris terminate.

A spokesman said: "Since 2012, we have deployed armed officers within London.

"The safety of rail passengers and staff is of paramount importance to us, and
we want to provide a reassuring, visible armed presence to deter terrorism on
the rail network.

"In light of the events in Paris, we have increased patrols at St Pancras, in
order to maintain and provide enhanced visibility and reassurance to the public.
We keep our security arrangements under constant review."

Number 10 said no specific extra security measures were planned to protect UK
media organisations, but added that any organisations with concerns should
approach the police.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 11:36 AM GMT

Cartoonist promises to draw Mohamed every day for the rest of the year in
protest of Charlie Hebdo attack;
Stunt follows yesterday's 'terrorist attack' at French satirical magazine

BYLINE: Christopher Hooton

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 243 words


In defence of satire, an amateur artist has promised to draw the Prophet Mohamed
on every one of the 347 days left in the year.

His first effort, which can be viewed here, is a fairly blank cartoon of the
religious figure, apparently not designed to convey a specific message but stand
against yesterday's shootings at French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo by its
very depiction.

"I'd like to see Muhammad doing ordinary boring stuff instead of bombing
everything," one Reddit user commented. "Picking up groceries, sitting on a bus,
having dinner and having awkward moments with the in-laws."

"They'll get more interesting," the unidentified artist wrote. "I just needed to
establish my base Muhammad."

But there was anger from some users, who felt the stunt amounted to
Islamophobia.

One claimed that when something like yesterday's tragedy happens, people "drop
their tolerance facades and move quickly from condemning terrorism to blatant
islamophobia and racism."

In pictures: reaction to Charlie Hebdo attack Seven people have been arrested as
the hunt continues for the two men believed to be behind the massacre of 12
journalists and policemen at Charlie Hebdo's offices on Rue Nicolas-Appert.

A third man, earlier named as a suspect by police, handed himself in late last
night.

The seven individuals are thought to be associates or family of the suspects and
were detained in the towns of Reims and Charleville-Mezieres, as well as in the
Paris area.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday
                                 First Edition

The sophistication suggests they had powerful backers;
Charlie Hebdo attack Terrorism

BYLINE: KIM SENGUPTA DEFENCE CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 569 words


What took place at the offices of Charlie Hebdo was a mission of targeted
assassinations carried out by proficient killers armed with Kalashnikovs for
urban guerrilla fighting. And, as such, it is markedly different from bombings
such as the ones in London and Madrid which sought to inflict the maximum number
of indiscriminate casualties.

According to reports, the gunmen sought out by name cartoonists, accused of
producing drawings insulting towards Islam, and then executed them, before
turning their fire on the others. This was very specific retribution; the masked
men were heard shouting "the Prophet has been avenged".

Unlike most bombings, or even the recent siege in the café in Sydney which began
after Man Haron Monis, the Iranian-born preacher, took hostages, it should be
easier, theoretically, to avoid being victims of this type of attack. One can do
so by not saying or doing anything which may offend a certain brand of Muslim.
This self-censorship is already practiced by some, but that cannot be the rule
in a pluralist, democratic society with a relatively free media. As a former
intelligence official told me yesterday: "This is as much a moral as a security
issue. It's all about the kind of society we choose to live in, what level of
risk people are prepared to accept."

What also became apparent during the Paris assault was that the gunmen, while
killing journalists, were keen to use newspaper and television to project
themselves and their message. "You say to the media, it was al-Qaeda in Yemen,"
one shouted at a member of the public.

There is no evidence at this stage that it is actually the case that al-Qaeda in
Yemen, or al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) as they are known, were
involved. Their usual modus operandi against the West so far has been in plots
to bring down airliners or take hostages in Yemen. In 2009, at Little Rock in
Arkansas, Abdul Hakim Mujahid Muhammad, a Muslim convert, killed a soldier
outside a recruitment office. He had spent some time in Yemen, but the shooting
appeared to be a spontaneous act.

Isis, the highest profile of all the Muslim extremist groups, had stated that
its immediate objective was to establish an Islamic state in the Levant rather
than take jihad to the West. That changed after the US-led air campaign began
and the French security services, once they establish the identity of the
killers, would undoubtedly examine whether they had been to Syria and Iraq
either to fight for Isis, or any other hardline group such as Jabhat al-Nusra.

This does not mean that the gunmen were being controlled by the Caliph in Raqaa
or Mosul. They could have formed individual cells and picked their own targets,
as radical clerics on the internet have been asking jihadis in the West to do.
However, the fact that they had acquired automatic rifles, carried out their
plan efficiently and managed to get away, shows a level of organisation not
usually seen among "lone wolves".

Can similar attacks take place in Britain? The security agencies have been
warning precisely of this for some time. Several plots to carry out
"Mumbai-style" attacks involving guns and grenades, rather than bombs, have been
detected and foiled in the past two years.

The murder of Lee Rigby was a selective killing; one cannot ignore the
possibility that targeted assassinations with trained terrorists may well take
place in London or Birmingham in the future.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 10:29 AM GMT

Merseyside Police hold two minutes' silence in solidarity with officers slain in
Paris terror attack;
Flag at police headquarters lowered as officers pause "in solidarity and
sympathy"

BYLINE: By John Siddle

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 329 words


Police on Merseyside today paid tribute to the officers murdered in the Paris
terror attack.

At 11.30am, 24 hours after the shootings at satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo,
officers paused for two minutes "in solidarity and sympathy".

The flag at Merseyside Police's headquarters at Canning Place was also be
lowered.

The request for the show of respect came from the Association of Chief Police
Officers (ACPO) and the Police Federation.

Acpo vice president Sir Peter Fahy said: "All members of the British police
forces are shocked at the savagery of this attack.

"In any democratic society it is the role of the police to protect basic human
rights and our two French colleagues died protecting free speech. They knew the
risks they were facing in carrying out their duty and clearly showed great
bravery in trying to prevent the terrorists murdering others.

"We stand in solidarity and express our great sympathy for their families and
friends.

"We have to stand together against this threat and we cannot be naive or
complacent about how extremist ideologies seek to justify this complete
disrespect for human life and for the values which ensure the freedom and
welfare of all citizens.

"We need the continued co-operation and support of the public to meet this
threat but all members of British policing will be even more determined to face
up to that very threat."

The ECHO today, too, joined the outpouring of support and sympathy for the
victims of the atrocity.

Liverpool ECHO editor Alastair Machray said: "The Charlie Hebdo atrocity is
sorrowful, shocking and sickening.

"The Echo is proud to carry the je suis Charlie logo in salute to those who died
and to stand solidly with a free world which believes freedom of speech is a
right worth dying for."

Several arrests were made overnight in the hunt for two remaining suspects over
the massacre at the newspaper.

France is on its highest level of alert after yesterday's assault on the Charlie
Hebdo satirical newspaper killed 12.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Remarks on the Terrorist Attack in Paris

LENGTH: 960 words


January 7, 2015

John Kerry

Secretary of State Polish Foreign Minister Grzegorz Schetyna

Treaty Room

Washington, DC

SECRETARY KERRY: I'm very pleased to welcome Polish Foreign Minister Schetyna
here to Washington today. He's come here especially to meet with us and talk
about the important relationship between Poland and the United States -- a very
important NATO member -- and we are working on many, many issues in a very, very
close bilateral way.



Before I do talk, however, about our relationship, both of us were just talking
about the horrific attack in Paris today, the murderous attack on the
headquarters of Charlie Hebdo in Paris. I would like to say directly to the
people of Paris and of all of France that each and every American stands with
you today, not just in horror or in anger or in outrage for this vicious act of
violence, though we stand with you in solidarity and in commitment both to the
cause of confronting extremism and in the cause which the extremists fear so
much and which has always united our two countries: freedom.

No country knows better than France that freedom has a price, because France
gave birth to democracy itself. France sparked so many revolutions of the human
spirit, borne of freedom and of free expression, and that is what the extremists
fear the most. They may wield weapons, but we in France and in the United States
share a commitment to those who wield something that is far more powerful -- not
just a pen, but a pen that represents an instrument of freedom, not fear. Free
expression and a free press are core values, they are universal values;
principles that can be attacked but never eradicated, because brave and decent
people around the world will never give in to the intimidation and the terror
that those seeking to destroy those values employ.

I agree with the French imam who today called the slain journalists martyrs for
liberty. Today's murders are part of a larger confrontation, not between
civilizations -- no -- but between civilization itself and those who are opposed
to a civilized world. The murderers dared proclaim " Charlie Hebdo is dead," but
make no mistake: They are wrong. Today, tomorrow, in Paris, in France, or across
the world, the freedom of expression that this magazine, no matter what your
feelings were about it, the freedom of expression that it represented is not
able to be killed by this kind of act of terror. On the contrary; it will never
be eradicated by any act of terror. What they don't understand -- what these
people who do these things don't understand -- is they will only strengthen the
commitment to that freedom and our commitment to a civilized world.

I'd like to just say a quick word, if I may, directly to the people of France.

(In French.)

We wish our friends in France well, and we stand in strong solidarity with them.


I know our friends in Poland understand these acts of terror and this challenge
as well as any people, not just in Europe but on the planet. And so I'm pleased
to be standing here with the foreign minister today. Poland is a strong,
stalwart advocate for and supporter of freedom and of democracy, and they've
stood on the front lines for a long time in that effort. They understand the
price of freedom and they understand the cost.

We are delighted to have their support and to work with them in their commitment
to Ukraine, to the freedom and sovereignty of that nation; to the rule of law
that has stood us so well in all of our global affairs, that was defined by
World War II, in which Poland paid such a price for freedom. And we value
enormously the very robust economic relationship that we share, the investment
in defense modernization, the commitment to NATO. And we restate once again our
commitment to Article 5 and to our NATO obligations and to the important
relationship between Poland and the United States with respect to the rule of
law. And finally, we appreciate Poland's strong commitment to the TTIP, to the
Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, which is such a key component of
our future in terms of jobs and our economies.

So Poland is a very important ally and an important guest today. And I think
symbolically to have Poland standing by our side as we talk about the events
that have taken place in Paris is something that should not be missed.

So thank you, Mr. Foreign Minister. We appreciate you being here. Thank you.

FOREIGN MINISTER SCHETYNA : Thank you. First of all, let me express my
condolences to France and its people. We are deeply touched by terrorist act in
Paris a few hours ago. We stand together with France today. But we will talk --
we arranged our meeting a couple weeks ago and we established that we will talk
about the -- our fight against terrorists and terrorism. And we -- I'd like to
talk that it's the -- last year it was really fruitful with our relations
between Poland and the United States. And I'm convinced that it will continue
for the next months and years we'll be talking about.

And Warsaw and Washington are close allies, intensively cooperating bilaterally
and within a NATO framework. And it's for us very important. We will be talking
about decisions made in (inaudible), about implementation these decisions; about
NATO summit in Warsaw, which we'll head to 2016; and about all these issue --
about the supports for international force in other regions all over the world
like Ukraine, Middle East, Afghanistan -- all the place where is a problem with
terrorists and terrorism -- with directness. And for sure we can say today that
Washington can count on Warsaw, and I'm confident that Warsaw can count on
Washington also.

Thank you very much.

SECRETARY KERRY: Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Thank you.

FOREIGN MINISTER SCHETYNA : Thank you.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 10:56 PM GMT

'I was so happy because he wasn't dead... then I realised he might not walk
again': Agony of Australian woman whose boyfriend is fighting for life after
being shot in Charlie Hebdo terror attack

BYLINE: EMILY CRANE FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 621 words



     ·    Simon Fieschi, 31, is in an induced coma after he was shot when
          terrorists stormed the Paris office of Charlie Hebdo
     ·    His 27-year-old girlfriend Maisie Dubosarsky was in Sydney visiting
          family and friends at the time of the terrorist attack
     ·    They met while she was on a working holiday in France 18 months ago
     ·    Mr Fieschi ran the satirical magazine's social media accounts
     ·    She flew back to Paris on Thursday afternoon to be by his side


An Australian woman emailed her boyfriend just 10 minutes before he was shot
when terrorists stormed the anti-Islamist newspaper in France where he worked.

Simon Fieschi, 31, is in an induced coma after undergoing surgery for a gunshot
wound to his shoulder after two men massacred five of his colleagues in a hail
of gunfire at the Charlie Hebdo office in Paris.

His 27-year-old girlfriend Maisie Dubosarsky was in Sydney visiting family and
friends when the attack on the satirical newspaper took place.

'I don't know when the shooting started but the last email I got from him was
10.39am Paris time,' she wrote on Facebook early Thursday morning.

Scroll down for video

She was left fearing for the worst until hearing news on Thursday morning he was
alive but seriously injured.

The bullet ricocheted off his spinal vertebra and perforated his lung.

'When they wake him up, we'll start to know,' she told Fairfax Media.

'Last night I was so happy because he wasn't dead. Now, realising that he might
not walk again... it's kind of terrible. I just wish it wasn't real.'

Ms Dubosarsky met her French boyfriend while on a working holiday in France 18
months ago.

She flew back to Paris on Thursday afternoon to be by his side.

Her mother told Daily Mail Australia she was 'terribly distressed' and would
hopefully be back in Paris when he wakes up.

Mr Fieschi, who ran the social media accounts for Charlie Hebdo, started working
at the magazine just after its offices were fire-bombed in November 2011.

'They got threats all the time but ... none of them thought that their lives
were under threat. They were out in public all the time,' Ms Dubosarsky said.

She said she had met several of the people who worked at Charlie Hebdo and
described them as passionate about free speech.

'They knew they were at the forefront of that. They were attacking everyone - in
a sense they were so libertarian they almost had no politics. They went for
everybody,' she said.

Two brothers and a teenager have been revealed as the three suspects linked to
the terrorist attack that left 12 people dead.

Said Kouachi, 34, and Cherif Kouachi, 32, both from Paris, were identified along
with Hamyd Mourad, 18, from the north-eastern city of Reims.

They stormed the newspaper office after forcing a female employee who had just
arrived to work with her young daughter to open the door.

The attackers headed straight for the paper's editor and cartoonist, Stephane
Charbonnier, killing him and his police bodyguard.

The security had been recruited to protect him after extremists firebombed the
offices in 2011 over a satirical cartoon about the Prophet Mohammed.

A year later, Mr Charbonnier famously dismissed threats against his life,
declaring: 'I would rather die standing than live kneeling.'

The militants also killed three other renowned cartoonists - men who had
regularly satirised Islam - and the newspaper's deputy chief editor.

Despite a shoot-out with armed officers, the gunmen escaped in a hijacked car
and remained on the loose on Wednesday night - forcing the French capital into
virtual lockdown as police and soldiers flooded the streets to join the search.

Some 100,000 people gathered across France last night to back the publication,
Charlie Hebdo, as a huge manhunt was launched to find the attackers.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 8:16 PM GMT

French ex-pats and supporters rally in Piccadilly Gardens to remember those who
died in Charlie Hebdo terror attack;
French citizens living in Manchester turn up for city centre rally to show
support for the satirical magazine at the cente of atrocity

BYLINE: By Amy Glendinning

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 197 words


French expatriates living in Manchester staged a rally for the dozen people who
died in the terror attack at satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris.

Around sixty people gathered in Piccadilly Gardens on Thursday evening holding
copies of the 'Je Suis Charlie' signs.

The rally was open to anyone wishing to make a stand against the violence which
saw police and journalists shot dead by gunmen in the French capital on
Wednesday.

Barbara Lebrun, a senior lecturer at Manchester University who teaches
contemporary French culture was one of those set to attend.

Before the event, she told the MEN: "I can't speak on behalf of everybody else
but it's a show of solidarity with the movement in France.

"It's a paper that's really well-known and more widely read than Private Eye is
in England.

"It's a very long established, incredibly influential and well-respected
newspaper.

"A lot of us even though we live abroad still have an affiliation, ideologically
and culturally, with left-wing discourse."

Following the deadly attack on the Charlie Hebdo offices on Wednesday, further
violence erupted this morning when a 27-year-old female French police officer
was shot dead in the south of Paris.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 4:33 PM GMT

Sergeant-at-Arms who stopped Ottowa terrorist attack to be named Canada's
ambassador to Ireland

BYLINE: JOSH GARDNER FOR MAILONLINE and AP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 865 words



     ·    Kevin Vickers, 58, the country's parliamentary head of security,
          famously brought down invader Michael Zehaf-Bibeau on October 22
     ·    The ex-Mountie gained worldwide notoriety after leading the charge
          against Zehaf-Bibeau and won a standing ovation at the House of
          Commons
     ·    While his role in parliament was largely seen as ceremonial, his new
          job as top diplomat to Ireland is a very real reward for Vickers'
          bravery


The Canadian parliament's hero Sergeant-at-Arms is soon to get a major promotion
after bravely leading the charge against House of Commons shooter Michael
Zehaf-Bibeau in October.

Ex-Mountie Kevin Vickers will move on from the already prestigious, though
ceremonial, job as parliamentary head of security to become top diplomat to
Ireland.

Vickers will end a 35-plus year career as a mountie and security officer to
become ambassador, CBC  reports.

Vickers will be replace former Conservative MP Loyola Hearn, who's held the
position since 2010, according to the  Globe and Mail.

It's yet another in a string of honors the hero has received following his
selfless act of bravery October 22.

Israel's parliament officially honored Vickers in November.

And the MPs in his own House of Commons gave Vickers a touching standing ovation
that was recorded and played countless times around the world in the wake of the
shooting and showed the policing veteran nearly in tears.

At first expressionless and motionless, the 58-year-old Vickers eventually
responded to the ovation with a few slight nods of his head, his lips quivering
with emotion.

Later in the session, Prime Minister Stephen Harper lauded Vickers, whose job -
a mix of the ceremonial and the practical - encompasses the maintenance of
safety and security in the Parliament complex.

'I would be very remiss if I did not conclude in acknowledging specifically the
work of the security forces here on Parliament and the great work of our
sergeant-at-arms,' Harper said to more cheers and applause from the members.

Harper then walked over to shake Vickers' hand and clap him on the shoulder.

'I am very touched by the attention directed at me following yesterday's
events,' Vickers said in a statement.

'However, I have the support of a remarkable security team,' he added.
'Yesterday, during extraordinary circumstances, security personnel demonstrated
professionalism and courage. I am grateful and proud to be part of this team.'

The gunman who invaded Parliament had been seen by witnesses minutes earlier
fatally shooting a soldier posted at the nearby National War Memorial.

As shots rang out in the Parliament building, people fled the complex by
scrambling down scaffolding erected for renovations, while others took cover
inside as police with rifles and body armor took up positions outside and
cordoned off the normally bustling streets around Parliament.

Video broadcast showed Vickers moments after the gunfire, walking down a
corridor in the Parliament building with a handgun in his right hand.

Royal Canadian Mounted Police commissioner Bob Paulson said at a news conference
that Zehaf-Bibeau and Vickers exchanged gunfire, and the suspect was shot as he
moved from behind a pillar to get a better shot at the sergeant-at-arms.

'Mr. Vickers and his whole team are heroes,' Paulson added.

Vickers, whose background includes providing security for visiting members of
Britain's royal family, became sergeant-at-arms in the House of Commons eight
years ago after a varied security career. He spent nearly 30 years with the
RCMP, reaching the rank of chief superintendent.

A member of Parliament from Ottawa, Paul Dewar, described the 6-foot-4 Vickers
as 'a gentle giant,' and recalled how the sergeant-at-arms had scooped Dewar's
young son into his arms at their first encounter.

Dewar said that when Vickers interviewed for the job years ago, he had stressed
the importance of striking a balance so that Parliament would be secure yet
remain accessible to the public.

'He said, 'I want to make sure people are still able to play Frisbee on the
front lawn,'' Dewar recalled.

Daryl Kramp, a Conservative member of Parliament from Ontario, said he counts
Vickers as a personal friend, as well as a consummate professional.

'He does his duty in just such a manner that he had earned the respect of all of
the House, prior to these events,' Kramp said. 'And then to be able to act so
professionally again, and so decisively, in a traumatic situation, that just
even gives more credence to not only what his capabilities are, but certainly to
what his values and principles are.'

A former RCMP deputy commissioner, Pierre-Yves Bourduas, who also has security
duties at Parliament Hill, told the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. that Vickers was
a meticulous planner.

Vickers was born in New Brunswick and spent much of his police career there.

His son, Andrew, has carried on the family tradition as a police officer in
Miramichi, New Brunswick.

Three years ago, Andrew was lauded in the federal Parliament for diving into the
frigid, fast-flowing Miramichi River to rescue a drowning woman who was trying
to kill herself.

'We are happy to see Andrew following in the footsteps of his dad,' said the
lawmaker who saluted him, Tilly O'Neill-Gordon.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 1:32 PM GMT

#JeSuisCharlie: Manchester remembers victims of terror attack on Paris satirical
magazine Charlie Hebdo;
A minute's silence was held across the city at 11.30am - exactly 24 hours after
the tragedy.

BYLINE: By John Scheerhout

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 408 words


Manchester paused to remember the 12 people killed in the Islamist attack on
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris.

A minute's silence was held across the city at 11.30am - exactly 24 hours after
the tragedy.

A special prayer station was set up at Manchester Cathedral and police stations
across Greater Manchester came to a standstill - two of those killed were police
officers.

Journalists at MEN Media also observed the silence and, along with people all
over the world, held up 'Je suis Charlie' placards and pens to show 'the pen is
still mightier than the sword'.

#JeSuisCharlie: M.E.N. tribute to Charlie Hebdo staff killed in terror attack

A French tricolour was raised at GMP's HQ in Newton Heath during a small
ceremony attended by Police and Crime Commissioner Tony Lloyd, Chief Constable
Sir Peter Fahy and others.

GMP's Sir Peter said: "Our thoughts and sympathies are with the families of all
those who lost their lives in yesterday's tragic and savage events."

He paid tribute to the 12 who died including two police officers who he said
were 'simply trying to protect the public'.

Paris attack: Greater Manchester Police chief constable Sir Peter Fahy

He continued: "All members of the British police forces are shocked at the
savagery of this attack. In any democratic society it is the role of the police
to protect basic human rights and our two French colleagues died protecting free
speech.

"They knew the risks they were facing in carrying out their duty and clearly
showed great bravery in trying to prevent the terrorists murdering others.

"We stand in solidarity and express our great sympathy for their families and
friends. We have to stand together against this threat and we cannot be naive or
complacent about how extremist ideologies seek to justify this compete
disrespect for human life and for the values which ensure the freedom and
welfare of all citizens."

A statement released by Manchester Cathedral said: "We mourn with all the
families and loved ones who grieve these senseless deaths and pray for God's
comfort and strength at this time of terrible tragedy and sadness.

"At this time of the Church's year, we celebrate the gift to the world of the
Christ Child and remember how that gift is revealed through love, peace and
reconciliation. The people of Greater Manchester will continue to strive for
peace and unity in our city and wider world."

People were invited to light a candle and pray for the people of France.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 9:40 AM GMT

Clegg forced to defend Britain's Cobra emergency committee not meeting until 24
hours after Paris terror attack

BYLINE: MATT CHORLEY, POLITICAL EDITOR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1106 words



     ·    MI5 and MI6 chiefs to brief police and senior ministers on latest
          intelligence
     ·    Home Secretary Theresa May to chair meeting in Whitehall this morning
     ·    David Cameron says gun attack on Paris magazine marks shift in threat
     ·    Prime Minister warns 'there is no one single answer' to appalling
          attacks
     ·    Cameron has the offered assistance of British spies to help France
     ·    The Queen send thoughts and prayers 'to all those who have been
          affected'
     ·    Foreign Office warns tourists in Paris there is a 'high threat from
          terrorism'
     ·    Crowds gathered in Trafalgar Square for a moving vigil for the victims




Nick Clegg today insists Britain's security services have a grip on the terror
threat as he faced questions about why the Cobra emergency committee is not
meeting until 24 hours after the Paris attack.

The Deputy Prime Minister stressed that the police, MI5 and MI6 'work flat out
all the time regardless of whether a Cobra meeting is taking place in Whitehal.

Home Secretary Theresa May will chair the Cobra meeting this morning with
security chiefs, police and senior ministers, after what David Cameron described
as a 'different' kind of terror plot.

Masked gunmen killed 12 people, including four cartoonists and two policeman, in
the assault on the Paris offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.

A huge manhunt is underway in Paris with two 'armed and dangerous' brothers with
links to terrorist groups going back at least a decade on the run. Seven other
people have been arrested.

Mrs May last night said that Britain stands with the French people 'at this time
for freedom of speech and democracy and against terror'. She warned that the
terror threat to the UK is 'grave and relentless'.

Mr Cameron has offered the assistance of British spies to help French agencies
investigate the atrocity.

Taking calls on his weekly phone-in, Mr Clegg faced questions about the British
response to the attack in Paris and why Cobra did not meet last night.

He told LBC: 'Our intelligence services and police work flat out all the time
regardless of whether a Cobra meeting is taking place in Whitehall or not.

'They do an extraordinary job and thwart a lot of threats we don't hear about.

'I think it's right that Theresa May is chairing this Cobra meeting this morning
to stress test and absolutely check that all the measures that need to be taken
in the light of this barbaric murder of journalists in central Paris that every
possible eventuality of how that might affect us is properly addressed.'

Mr Clegg stressed that a meeting of Cobra was 'just a forum' at which senior
security officials can 'double check' the impact of the Paris attack.

'It is not as if nothing happens until a meeting happens in Whitehall', he
added.

British tourists in Paris, meanwhile, have been warned to take 'extra care' in
the wake of today's terrorist gun attack in the French capital which left 12
people dead.

The Foreign Office warned there is a 'high threat from terrorism' and attacks
'could be indiscriminate'.

The Prime Minister and German Chancellor Angela Merkel were given an
extraordinary joint security briefing by British intelligence agencies MI5 and
MI6.

The 10-minute briefing was based on what the intelligence agencies had been able
to piece together so far from open source material.

It highlighted the calm, determined and apparently professional way the killers
had carried out the assault.

Mr Cameron said: 'This is different from some of the plots that we have seen
here in the UK from so-called home-grown terrorists.'

The PM added that the UK was 'already at a very high state of alert' and the
security services were looking at what more could be done, he said, 'but there
is no one single answer to these appalling terrorist attacks'.

Defending the right to free speech he said: 'We should be very clear this day
that these values that we have are not sources of weakness for us, they are
sources of strength.

'Of course there are all sorts of economic things we have to get right but, as
we do that, the countries that succeed in the future I think will be those that
stick to the values of freedom, of democracy, of the rule of law.

'Those are part of the things that make our economies and our societies and our
political systems strong and powerful and good and we must not give those up.'

Mr Cameron and Mrs Merkel also spoke to French President Francois Hollande from
the Prime Minister's office in No 10, a call the German Chancellor described as
a 'very moving moment'.

France has raised its terror alert system to the maximum - Attack Alert - and
bolstered security with more than 800 extra soldiers to guard media offices,
places of worship and other possible targets.

French President Francois Hollande chaired an emergency meeting at the Elysee
Palace in Paris this morning.

Britain's terror threat level is currently set at 'severe' but the question of
increasing to 'critical', the highest state of alert, is likely to be discussed.

It was last raised to critical in 2007 in the wake of terror attacks in London
and Glasgow, and indicates an extremely high level of threat.

Three masked attackers brandishing Kalashnikovs burst into the Charlie Hebdo
headquarters, opening fire on staff after seeking out journalists by name.

Those executed included four of the most famous cartoonists in France - men who
had regularly satirised Islam and the Prophet Mohammed - including the
newspaper's editor-in-chief, Stephane Charbonnier.

Witnesses said the suspect Al Qaeda killers were heard to shout 'the Prophet has
been avenged' and 'Allahu akbar!' as they stalked the building.

Horrific footage also emerged showing an injured police officer slumped on the
pavement outside the office as two of the gunmen approach.

In a statement the Queen said: 'Prince Philip and I send our sincere condolences
to the families of those who have been killed and to those who have been injured
in the attack in Paris this moming.

'We send our thoughts and prayers to all those who have been affected.'

The Foreign Office has updated its travel advice to state: 'If you're in Paris
or the Ile de France area, take extra care and follow the security advice issued
by the French authorities.

'There is a high threat from terrorism. Attacks could be indiscriminate. Due to
ongoing threats to France by Islamist groups, and recent French military
intervention against ISIL, the French government has warned the public to be
especially vigilant and has reinforced its own domestic and overseas security
measures.

'Previous incidents attributed to Islamist extremists have included the shooting
of 3 soldiers and 4 civilians in Toulouse, and a knife attack on a soldier near
Paris.'

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 4:03 AM GMT

'Streets of Paris teeming with police': Today Show host Lisa Wilkinson caught up
in terror attack against satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo while on holiday in
France

BYLINE: NEIL GRIFFITHS and AMY CROFFEY FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: TV&SHOWBIZ

LENGTH: 856 words


Lisa Wilkinson and her husband author Peter FitzSimons have been caught up in
aftermath of the terror attack on the office of satirical French magazine,
Charlie Hebdo, while holidaying in Paris.

The Today show host took to social media forum Twitter on Wednesday to relay
what she was experiencing as the horror unfolded.

Recounting events in the French capital she tweeted: 'Streets of #Paris where I
am absolutely teeming with police. Many buildings guarded by police nursing
serious armory.'

Scroll down for video

Three masked gunmen opened fire inside the office of Charlie Hebdo, leaving 12
people dead. It is thought the perpetrators had links with terrorist
organisation al-Qaeda.

Lisa, 55, and Peter, 53, are enjoying a vacation in Paris, before the terrifying
incident took place.

But he told Sky News  on Thursday that they didn't let the events put a stop to
their holidays and went out for dinner together.

'When we went into this restaurant, I said to the maître d, "have you had any
cancellations tonight?" and he raised a quizzical eyebrow and said, "no not at
all,"' Peter revealed.

'The restaurant was chockablock and this was at a time that three gunman are on
the loose.'

Peter also explained that as they enjoyed their meal out together in the French
capital, they heard a 'very raucous French version of happy birthday.'

He turned and said to Lisa, 'this is a particularly French reaction to things.'

Peter added that he doubted the same behaviour would have been seen in Sydney
during the attack on the Lindt cafe in December, which left two people dead.

At the time of writing, two brothers were named as being among the three
suspects involved in the deadly terrorist attack on the anti-Islamist newspaper.

Said Kouachi, 34, and Cherif Kouachi, 32, were identified along with Hamyd
Mourad, 18, with all three from the Paris commuter town of Gennevilliers.

A raid by France's elite anti-terrorist unit was underway in Reims as part of
the hunt for the gunmen with media sources reporting that the youngest of the
three suspects has surrendered to police.

Stéphane Charbonnier, who was  the publishing director of Charlie Hebdo and a
cartoonist on the magazine, was on an al Qaeda 'wanted' list. He was living
under police protection.

Lisa continued Tweeting early into Thursday morning (Paris time) about what the
situation was like on the ground.

Alongside a picture, she wrote: Flags now flying half mast in the early hours at
Elysee Palace, official residence of French President. #CharlieHebdo'.

Later in the day, TV presenter Lisa retweeted a satirical cartoon from
Australian newspaper, The Canberra Times referencing the horrifying attack.

Lisa revealed she and her husband had cancelled their plans on their last day in
Paris after the incident, but then felt they needed to show their support for
the victims of the incident.

She tweeted: 'Paris still v much on edge. Our last night here & hubby & I had
cancelled plans but now decided to head out & 2 show support.'

Lisa and Peter also made their way to Place de la Republique, where thousands of
people had gathered to stand in defiance against the attacks and show they would
not bow to fear.

Brandishing pens in the air the crowd gathered in memory and solidarity.

Describing the charged and emotional atmosphere she Tweeted: 'Amazing scenes
here at Place de la Republique in Paris.

'Thousands holding pens aloft chanting "No more blood, ink must flow".' she
posted on her social media account.

Her husband of almost 25 years, Tweeted his own messages of support and likened
the Paris attack to the recent Sydney siege.

'I'm in Paris. It's reacting like Sydney. As CNN says "No anti-Muslim sentiment
on Streets" Muslim French also outraged.' he posted.

A number of other well-known Australian faces have also taken to their social
media accounts with sentiments of solidarity and support following the attack.

Amongst them is Hollywood A-list actor Russell Crowe, who retweeted a message
from ABC News producer and photographer, Meredith Frost. She wrote: 'Not Afraid'
and shared a powerful image from a candlelit Paris by AP photographer Thibault
Camus.

Lisa's colleague, fellow Today host Sylvia Jefferies, shared a black poster with
her Instagram followers displaying what the magazine's site now looks like,
alongside the hashtags: 'The #charliehebdo #jesuischarlie #iamcharlie.'

Singer Natalie Imbruglia's thoughts were also with those in Paris.

'#jesuischarlie #freedomofspeech Sending love to the victims and their families
#parisunited #notafraid,' she said alongside a picture of Paris at night.

Channel 7's Sunrise weather girl and Dancing With The Stars co-host, Edwina
Bartholomew, shared a cartoon of a gunman shooting dead a illustrator with the
speech bubble: 'He drew first'.

'Fellow cartoonists show support for murdered #charliehebdo staff,' she
captioned it.

The Bachelor Australia's Anna Heinrich shared a poster on her Instagram and
wrote: '#JeSuisCharlie Another sad sad day.'

Guy Sebastian wrote: 'Let terrorism never squash freedom', while Ricki Lee said:
'Everybody should have the freedom to express themselves and not be in fear of
doing so.'

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 3:43 AM GMT

New York City steps up security at French Consulate and for prominent media
organizations after Paris terror attack

BYLINE: ZOE SZATHMARY FOR MAILONLINE and ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1929 words



     ·    The French Consulate and some media organizations in New York City now
          have NYPD counterterrorism patrols
     ·    Police Commissioner Bill Bratton has warned 'We have no information
          indicating any direct threat'
     ·    Deputy Police Commissioner John Miller has said there is a detective
          in Paris keeping the NYPD up to date
     ·    Twelve people were killed at the office of satirical newspaper Charlie
          Hebdo in Paris by gunmen on Wednesday
     ·    President Francois Hollande called the assault 'an act of exceptional
          barbarism'


The New York Police Department publicly addressed the city's security on
Wednesday after a Paris newspaper shooting which left twelve people dead.

The French Consulate and some media organizations now have NYPD counterterrorism
patrols, NBC New York  reported. Other places are reportedly being watched.

Police have been seen outside both the French Consulate and the Cultural
Services of the French Embassy in the United States  which are both located in
on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.

Police Commissioner Bill Bratton said at a press conference 'We have no
information indicating any direct threat against any entity here in the City of
New York based on the intelligence briefing I had this morning.

However, he continued 'But we will always err on the side of caution, and
fortunately we have the resources that we can do quite a lot even without a
direct threat.'

Scroll down for video

Bratton also said Wednesday at the conference that 'We have 350 to 400 emergency
service officers with their respective trucks and gear constantly out in the
city.'

He explained, 'This is not an increase in security, but the already-extensive
security that we have in place all the time in New York City.'

The attack took place at the offices for newspaper Charlie Hebdo. Vigils have
been held across European cities for the victims - two police officers and ten
civilians.

Deputy Police Commissioner John Miller also spoke at the press conference.

He said of the shooters, 'Looking at the videos, they walk when they need to
walk, they run when they need to run, they don't seem to be overly concerned
with affecting their escape as much as they are with executing their mission.'

Miller said in a statement that the agency is keeping an eye on events in the
French capital.

'New York City has the most sophisticated counterterrorism capability in the
U.S.,' the statement said. 'There are standing contingency plans in place to
adjust police deployments based on any unfolding situation in the world. That
includes how we use and where we position and deploy specialized police
resources.

'The NYPD has a Detective stationed in Paris who has been coordinating with NYPD
and we will continue to closely monitor the situation.'

Police hunted for three heavily armed men with possible links to al-Qaida in the
military-style, methodical killing of 12 people Wednesday at the office of a
satirical newspaper that caricatured the Prophet Muhammad.

President Francois Hollande, visiting the scene of France's deadliest such
attack in more than half a century, called the assault on the weekly newspaper
Charlie Hebdo 'an act of exceptional barbarism.'

France raised its terror alert system to the maximum - Attack Alert - and
bolstered security with more than 800 extra soldiers to guard media offices,
places of worship, transport and other sensitive areas. Fears had been running
high in France and elsewhere in Europe that jihadis returning from conflicts in
Syria and Iraq would stage attacks at home.

Two officials identified the suspects as French brothers Said and Cherif
Kouachi, in their early 30s, and 18-year-old Hamyd Mourad, whose nationality
wasn't immediately clear.

Heavily armed police moved into the city of Reims, in France's Champagne country
east of Paris, apparently searching for the suspects. Video from BFM-TV showed
police dressed in white apparently taking samples inside an apartment. It was
not immediately clear who lived there.

One of the police officials said they were linked to a Yemeni terrorist network,
and Cedric Le Bechec, a witness who encountered the escaping gunmen, quoted the
attackers as saying: 'You can tell the media that it's al-Qaida in Yemen.'

The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized
to publicly discuss the sensitive and ongoing investigation.

Cherif Kouachi was sentenced to 18 months in prison after being convicted of
terrorism charges in 2008 for helping funnel fighters to Iraq's insurgency. He
said he was outraged at the torture of Iraqi inmates at the U.S. prison at Abu
Ghraib near Baghdad.

The masked, black-clad men with assault rifles stormed the offices near Paris'
Bastille monument in the Wednesday noontime attack on the publication, which had
long drawn condemnation and threats - it was firebombed in 2011 - for its
depictions of Islam, although it also satirized other religions and political
figures.

Shouting 'Allahu akbar!' as they fired, the men used fluent, unaccented French
as they called out the names of specific employees.

Artist Corinne Rey told the French newspaper L'Humanite that she punched in the
security code to the Charlie Hebdo offices after she and her young daughter were
'brutally threatened' by the gunmen.

Eight journalists, two police officers, a maintenance worker and a visitor were
killed, said prosecutor Francois Molins. He said 11 people were wounded - four
of them seriously.

After fleeing, the attackers collided with another vehicle, then carjacked
another car before disappearing in broad daylight, Molins said.

Among the dead: the paper's editor, Stephane Charbonnier.

The staff was in an editorial meeting and the gunmen headed straight for
Charbonnier - widely known by his pen name Charb - killing him and his police
bodyguard first, said Christophe Crepin, a police union spokesman.

Rey said the assault 'lasted five minutes. I hid under a desk.'

Two gunmen strolled out to a black car waiting below, one of them calmly
shooting a wounded police officer in the head as he writhed on the ground,
according to video and a man who watched in fear from his home across the
street.

The witness, who refused to allow his name to be used because he feared for his
safety, said the attackers were so methodical he first thought they were members
of France's elite anti-terrorism forces. Then they fired on the officer.

'They knew exactly what they had to do and exactly where to shoot. While one
kept watch and checked that the traffic was good for them, the other one
delivered the final coup de grace,' he said.

'Hey! We avenged the Prophet Muhammad! We killed Charlie Hebdo,' one of the men
shouted in French, according to video shot from a nearby building.

The other dead were identified as cartoonists Georges Wolinski and Berbard
Verlhac, better known as Tignous, and Jean Cabut, known as 'Cabu.' Also killed
was Bernard Maris, an economist who was a contributor to the newspaper and was
heard regularly on French radio.

Le Bechec, the witness who encountered the gunmen in another part of Paris,
described on his Facebook page seeing two men 'get out of a bullet-ridden car
with a rocket-launcher in hand, eject an old guy from his car and calmly say hi
to the public, saying "you can tell the media that it's al-Qaida in Yemen."'

Charlie Hebdo has been repeatedly threatened for its caricatures of the Prophet
Muhammad and other sketches. One cartoon, released in this week's issue and
titled 'Still No Attacks in France,' had a caricature of a jihadi fighter saying
'Just wait - we have until the end of January to present our New Year's wishes.'
Charb was the artist.

In a somber address to the nation Wednesday night, Hollande pledged to hunt down
the killers, and pleaded with his compatriots to come together in a time of
insecurity and suspicion.

'Let us unite, and we will win,' he said. 'Vive la France!'

France raised its security alert to the highest level and reinforced protective
measures at houses of worship, stores, media offices and transportation. Schools
closed across Paris, although thousands of people later jammed Republique Square
near the site of the shooting to honor the victims, waving pens and papers
reading 'Je suis Charlie' - 'I am Charlie.' Similar rallies were held in
London's Trafalgar Square as well as Madrid, Barcelona, Berlin and Brussels.

'This is the darkest day of the history of the French press,' said Christophe
DeLoire of Reporters Without Borders.

Both al-Qaida and the Islamic State group have repeatedly threatened to attack
France, which is conducting airstrikes against extremists in Iraq and fighting
Islamic militants in Africa.

During Cherif Kouachi's 2008 trial, he told the court, "I really believed in the
idea" of fighting the U.S.-led coalition in Iraq.

In the winter 2014 edition of the al-Qaida magazine Inspire, a so-called chief
describing where to use a new bomb said: 'Of course the first priority and the
main focus should be on America, then the United Kingdom, then France and so
on.'

In 2013, the magazine specifically threatened Charb and included an article
titled 'France the Imbecile Invader.'

The attack was condemned by world leaders.

President Barack Obama offered U.S. help in pursuing the gunmen, saying they had
attacked freedom of expression. He offered prayers and support for France, which
he called 'America's oldest ally.'

British Prime Minister David Cameron said his country stood united with France,

'We stand squarely for free speech and democracy. These people will never be
able to take us off those values,' Cameron said in the House of Commons.

Russian President Vladimir Putin also condemned the attack as a 'cynical crime,'
and pledged cooperation in fighting terrorism.

'I think all of Europe is crying today,' said Italian Premier Matteo Renzi. 'All
the free world is crying. All men and women who believe in freedom and reason
are crying.'

Salman Rushdie, who spent years in hiding after his novel, 'The Satanic Verses,'
drew a death edict from Iran's religious authorities, said all must stand with
Charlie Hebdo 'to defend the art of satire, which has always been a force for
liberty and against tyranny, dishonesty and stupidity.'

Mohammed Moussaoui, president of the Union of French mosques, condemned the
'hateful act,' and urged Muslims and Christians 'to intensify their actions to
give more strength to this dialogue, to make a united front against extremism.'

The Organization of Islamic Cooperation based in Jiddah, Saudi Arabia, which
represents 57 Muslim-majority nations, added its condemnation, saying that
violence and radicalism were the biggest enemies of Islam and went against all
its fundamental principles and values.

A tweet from an al-Qaida representative who communicated Wednesday with The
Associated Press said the group was not claiming responsibility for the attack,
but called it 'inspiring.'

Supporters of militant Islamic groups praised it. One self-described Tunisian
loyalist of al-Qaida and the Islamic State group tweeted that the attack was
well-deserved revenge against France.

The hashtag (hash)JeSuisCharlie was trending as people expressed support for the
weekly and for journalistic freedom. The weekly's website collapsed earlier
Wednesday but was later restored.

It was the deadliest attack on journalists since 2009, when 32 journalists were
killed in an ambush on a political convoy in the southern Philippines.

Philippe Val, one-time Charlie Hebdo chief, raised the possibility of publishing
a special edition of the newspaper, saying 'a way of speaking has been
exterminated.'

'We must respond, because we must testify for them,' he told RTL radio.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 12:07 AM GMT

'Expect more of this sort of atrocity': Prime Minister Abbott warns another
terror attack is on the cards but urges Australians not to change our way of
life

BYLINE: FRANK COLETTA FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA and AAP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 532 words



     ·    Tony Abbott warns more terror attacks are likely
     ·    The PM urges Australians not to change their way of life including
          travel plans
     ·    He said 'Australia stands with France' and  condemns the 'atrocity' in
          the Paris office of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo
     ·    PM re-affirms Australia's high terror alert


Prime Minister Tony Abbott has warned Australians to expect more attacks like
the one which has shattered the peace in Paris and resulted in the fatal
shooting of 12 people at the office of a satirical newspaper.

In calling it an 'unspeakable atrocity', Mr Abbott urged Australians not to let
the events 'change our way of life'.

'We have a strong presence in the Middle East to tackle the death cult at its
source,' he said.

'The Paris shooting is an absolute atrocity but sadly we can expect more of
this. We will defend our way of life, we will defend our values and freedoms.'

Scroll down for video

Heavily armed men shouting 'Allahu Akbar' stormed the French headquarters of
Charlie Hedbo on Wednesday, killing a dozen people in what French President
Francois Hollande called 'undoubtedly a terrorist attack'.

The assault sparked a massive man hunt as the two gunmen managed to escape,
executing a wounded police officer as they fled.

The weekly newspaper had a history of causing controversy with cartoons of
Islam's prophet Mohammed.

In an earlier post on Twitter on Thursday, Mr Abbott labelled the attack an
'atrocity'.

'If you don't like something, you don't read it; you don't kill people you
disagree with,' the tweet said.

Mr Abbott also said 'freedom of expression is the cornerstone of a free society'
re-affirmed Australia's high terror alert.

'The Government condemns the atrocity in Paris overnight,' Mr Abbott's stated.

'The thoughts of all Australians are with the families of those who have lost
their lives in this barbaric act.

'Australia stands with the people and the government of France at this difficult
time.'

The attack comes less than a month after lone gunman Man Haron Monis took 18
people hostage during a deadly siege in a Sydney cafe.

Monis and two of his hostages, Tori Johnson and Katrina Dawson, were killed in
the violent conclusion to the siege in the early hours of December 16.

TONY ABBOTT'S STATEMENT ON PARIS 'ATROCITY'

The Government condemns the atrocity in Paris overnight.

The thoughts of all Australians are with the families of those who have lost
their lives in this barbaric act.

Freedom of expression is the cornerstone of a free society.

The Government will continue to do all it can to protect our community from
terrorism.

Our National Terrorism Alert level remains at High, which means a terrorist
attack is likely.

Our security agencies are assessing the situation for security implications to
Australia but there is no information to suggest that there is an imminent
threat to Australia as a result of the Paris atrocity.

All Australians should remain vigilant, and again, I urge people who see or hear
something that they feel is not right, to contact the National Security Hotline
immediately on 1800 123 400.

Australia stands with the people and the government of France at this difficult
time.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

30 killed in suicide attack by minibus terrorist

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 70 words


A SUICIDE bomber driving a minibus packed with explosives killed at least 30
people near a police academy in the Yemeni capital of Sanaa yesterday.

About 70 others were wounded in the attack in the heart of the city, including
cadets and passers-by.

Witness Jamil al-Khaleedi said: 'We were all gathering and [the car] exploded
right next to all of the classmates.' The Yemeni branch of al-Qaeda is thought
to be responsible.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Debris: A burnt-out car at the bomb site

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 7:42 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo: Journalist spared death by terrorists during brutal attack at
magazine office 'because she's a woman';
Reporter Sigolène Vinson said a gunman told her: "I'm not killing you because
you are a woman and we don't kill women but you have to convert to Islam."

BYLINE: By Andy Lines

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 263 words


A terrified freelance journalist has described how sheescaped with her life
during the Charlie Hebdo massacre - becauseshe was a woman.

Sigolene Vinson was in the magazine's Paris HQwhen the two men burst into the
building.

But one of the killergunmen screamed at his partner: "We don't shoot women, we
don'tshoot women."

The dramatic account came as the first picturesemerged of inside the
blood-stained office.

They show the carnagethat occurred inside over a five minute period.

Sigolene toldyesterday how she tried to hide behind an office wall but one ofthe
gunmen saw her and pulled her up by the arm.

He pointed hisKalashnikov at her head before changing his mind.

He said: "Don'tbe afraid.

"Calm down.

"I won't kill you.

"You are a woman - butthink about what you are doing.

"It's not right."

Sigolene said theman then turned to the other gunman who was still shooting
andscreamed: "We don't shoot women, we don't shoot women."

The manadded: "I will not kill you because you are a woman and you cannotkill
women but you have to convert to Islam and read the Koran."

Sigolene said he then left shouting "Allahu Akhbar, allahu akhbar."

The Mirror also told how another woman was sparedby the terrorists, despite
coming face to face with them at theentrance of the building.

Corinne Rey punched in the code to allowthe two men into the Charlie Hebdo
offices.

She was with herdaughter who she had just picked up from nursery.

Ms Rey hid undera desk with her child and watched two colleagues shot dead.

Charlie Hebdo: hunt for the shooting suspects continues as tributes continue all
over France

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 6:27 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo: Journalist spared death by terrorists during brutal attack at
magazine office 'because she's a woman';
Reporter Sigolène Vinson said a gunman told her: "I'm not killing you because
you are a woman and we don't kill women but you have to convert to Islam."

BYLINE: By Chris Richards

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 171 words


A journalist has revealed how she was spared death by the terrorists who
attacked Charlie Hebdo because she is a woman.

Reporter Sigolène Vinson survived yesterday's attack on the Paris office of the
weekly French satirical magazine in which 12 people, including two police
officers, were shot dead.

Ms Vinson told Radio France Internationale that one of the killers aimed his gun
at her but decided against taking her life.

She said the man told her: "I'm not killing you because you are a woman and we
don't kill women but you have to convert to Islam, read the Qu'ran and wear a
veil."

She added that as the man left, he shouted "Allahu akbar, allahu akbar."

Cartoonists Georges Wolinski, Stephane Charbonnier, Bernard Verlhac and Jean
Cabut were among 10 employees gunned down during an editorial conference at the
magazine's office.

Charbonnier, 47, became editor of Charlie Hebdo in 2009.

To date, none of the gunmen have been apprehended.

Charlie Hebdo: hunt for the shooting suspects continues as tributes continue all
over France

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 6:00 PM GMT

Paris police shooting: First picture of young policewoman shot dead in suspected
terrorist attack;
Clarissa Jean-Philippe, 27, was killed when she was was on patrol as a municipal
police officer in the suburb of Montrouge in Paris

BYLINE: By Anthony Bond

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 331 words


This is the first picture of a policewoman who was shot dead this morning in a
suspected terrorist attack in Paris.

Clarissa Jean-Philippe, 27, was killed when she was was on patrol as a municipal
police officer in the suburb of Montrouge - a middle class area in the south of
Paris.

The police officer was shot in the head by the attacker  when she attended a
reported traffic accident. The killer then escaped in a Renault Clio. Police
sources say he wore a bullet-proof vest and was carrying a handgun and assault
rifle.

The officer, who was originally from Martinique, died on the scene.

At this stage it is not clear if there is any direct link to yesterday's
killings at satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris.

The murder took place just 24 hours after three suspected terrorists murdered 12
people at the magazine's offices in the French capital.

Said Kouachi, 34, his brother Cherif Kouachi, 33, remain at large as police comb
housing estates across the country for the pair.

The third suspect, Hamyd Mourad, 19, handed himself into police yesterday.

Second Paris Shooting

Anti-terror police launched a series of raids in the eastern French city of
Reims following reports they had fled to the town, which is close to the Belgium
border.

In total, 12 people were killed and four injured. This included ten members of
staff and two policeman.

A video posted online of the brutal terror attack captured two gunmen, clad all
in black and carrying Kalashnikovs, taking fire at a lone policeman in the
aftermath of the massacre.

The graphic video shows the victim falling to the ground and holding his hands
up to surrender before apparently being executed with a point blank shot to the
head.

The gunmen, who appear to be professionally trained, then jog back to a black
Citroen car waiting in the middle of the road before driving off.

Other videos from the horrific attack show the gunmen shouting 'Allahou Akbar'
outside the office of Charlie Hebdo in Paris and bystanders fleeing the carnage.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 4:05 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo Paris shooting: MORE heavily armed police deployed to London St
Pancras in wake of terror attack;
Two men suspected of being behind the attack are still on the run and the
central London station is a key transport link to Paris

BYLINE: By Anthony Bond

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 368 words


Increased numbers of heavily armed police have been deployed at one of Britain's
biggest transport hubs in the wake of the devastating terror attack in Paris.

British Transport Police said it had increased the number of armed patrols at
London's St Pancras station to provide reassurance to the public.

The central London station is a key transport link to Paris through the Eurostar
terminal.

Pictures from the station today show armed police officers patrolling through
the station - just one day after three terrorists murdered 12 people at the
offices of Charlie Hebdo magazine.

CLICK HERE FOR LIVE UPDATES OF THE SEARCH FOR THE SUSPECTED TERRORISTS

A British Transport Police spokesman said: "Since 2012, we have deployed armed
officers within London.

"The safety of rail passengers and staff is of paramount importance to us, and
we want to provide a reassuring, visible armed presence to deter terrorism on
the rail network.

"In light of the events in Paris, we have increased patrols at St Pancras, in
order to maintain and provide enhanced visibility and reassurance to the public.
We keep our security arrangements under constant review."

A huge manhunt is currently ongoing across France for two brothers thought to be
behind the attack. A third suspect surrendered himself to police last night.

The UK has strengthened security at the border with France to ensure the
shooting suspects do not enter the country.

Home Secretary Theresa May announced there will be extra searches and scanning
of cars and lorries at ports and train terminals in the wake of yesterday's
atrocity in Paris in which 12 people were murdered.

The terrorist threat level in the UK will remain at severe, which means an
attack is highly likely.

Separately, the British secret service is offering its French counterparts its
full support.

Andrew Parker, director general of MI5, said: "It is too early for us to come to
judgments about the precise details or origin of the attack but it is a terrible
reminder of the intentions of those who wish us harm.

"As you would expect, we are offering our French colleagues our full support as
they respond."

Charlie Hebdo: hunt for the shooting suspects continues as tributes continue all
over France

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 1:14 PM GMT

Paris police shootings: Nigel Farage accused of exploiting France terror attack
to blame immigration;
UKIP leader is accused of attempting to use the brutal massacre, in which 12
people were shot dead, for his own political gain

BYLINE: By David Raven

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 492 words


Nigel Farage links Paris attack to immigration

Nigel Farage has linked the Paris shootings with a failure to control
immigration.

The UKIP leader is accused of attempting to exploit yesterday's brutal massacre,
in which 12 people were shot dead, and this morning's shooting in which a
policewoman was killed, to gain the political upper-hand.

He claimed what happened in Paris could be put down to failed "multiculturalism"
or what he called "having a fifth column living within these countries."

CharlieHebdo

But Labour MP Tessa Jowell hit back by describing his comments as "sickening"
and saying the murders were caused by criminals and not failed government
policies.

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg also said Mr Farage is just using the bloody
murders to "make political points."

Mr Farage told Channel 4 News: "There is a very strong argument that says that
what happened in Paris is a result - and we've seen it in London too - is a
result I'm afraid of now having a fifth column living within these countries.

"We've got people living in these countries, holding our passports, who hate us.

"Luckily their numbers are very, very small but it does make one question the
whole really gross attempt at encouraged division within society that we have
had in the past few decades in the name of multiculturalism."

Later, he told LBC Radio: "We in Britain, and I've seen evidence in other
European countries too, have pursued a really rather gross policy of
multi-culturalism.

"We have encouraged people who come from different cultures to remain within
those cultures, and not to integrate fully within our communities."

Labour MP Bill Esterson said: "These comments are crass and unacceptable at a
time when our thoughts should be with the families and friends of those who were
murdered and with those who were injured.

"UKIP is cynically exploiting an appalling terrorist attack, which resulted in
the loss of 12 lives, to make gross political points while fanning the flames of
hatred.

"Their comments are an absolute disgrace and do nothing but encourage prejudice
and bigotry.

"This is a time for cool heads and a measured look at how we keep our country
safe. These comments won't do that and instead will incite hatred."

Mr Clegg said: "I'm dismayed that Nigel Farage thinks that on the back of the
bloody murders on the streets of Paris yesterday, his first reflex is to seek to
make political points.

"If this does come down to two individuals who have perverted Islam for their
own bloody ends, the greatest antidote to the perversion of that great world
religion, Islam, is law abiding British Muslim themselves.

"To imply that British Muslims, who I know are fervently British yet also proud
of their Muslim faith, are somehow part of the problem not part of the solution
is grabbing the wrong end of the stick."

Charlie Hebdo: Latest updates after Paris shootings.

Charlie Hebdo: hunt for the shooting suspects continues as tributes continue all
over France

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 12:40 PM GMT

Touching cartoon tributes to Charlie Hebdo attack victims continue defiance
against terror;
Cartoonists worldwide are producing profound images in response to the attack on
the Charlie Hebdo offices

BYLINE: By Richard Beech

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 321 words


David Pope

Cartoonists from around the world are continuing to show defiance in the face of
terror by posting heartwrenching images online in tribute to those who lost
their lives in the attack on the Charlie Hebdo offices in Paris.

The images pay tribute to "cartooning colleagues, their families and loved ones"
affected by the massacre, after thousands took the streets in France last night
to tell the world "we are not afraid".

The phrase "Je suis Charlie" has become synonymous with freedom of the press and
the defence of free speech in reaction to the tragic events which have taken
place in the French capital.

#JeSuisCharlie initially trended on Twitter, with people around the world using
the hashtag to show their refusal to be silenced by terrorism, and to show their
solidarity with those who sadly lost their lives in the attack.

Prominent cartoonists are continuing to produce heartwrenching images.

Weekly Spanish paper El Jueves

El jeuves

Chilean cartoonist Mala Imagen

Mala Imagen

Greek cartoonist Vagelis Papavasiliou

Vagelis

French cartoonist "Tommy"

Tommy dessine

Le Monde cartoonist Plantu

Plantu

A cartoon by Michael Shaw in 2012 was reposted after yesterday's events

Shaw

Dave Brown in The Independent

JM:o - tweeted by French magazine Le Plus

Le Plus

"Died for freedom of expression"

Died for freedom

Chilean cartoonist Francisco J. Olea

Francisco

US cartoonist MacLeod

MacLeod

Washington Post cartoonist Ann Telnaes

Ann Telnaes

Parisian cartoonist Boulet

Boulet

Tom Toles in the Washington Post

Tom Toles

Jean Julien

Jean Julien

Dutch cartoonist Ruben L. Oppenheimer

Ruben L Oppenheimer

Australian cartoonist David Pope

David Pope

Indian cartoonist Neelabh Banerjee

Neelabh Banerjee

Parisian cartoonist Loic Secheresse

Loic Secheresse

Argentine cartoonist Bernardo Erlich

Argentine cartoonist Bernardo Erlich

Le Monde cartoonist Martin Vidberg

Martin Vidberg

"Today I am a cartoonist, today I am a journalist, today I draw for Charlie
Hebdo."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 12:20 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo: BBC slammed as violent Silent Witness police killer episode airs
hours after Paris massacre;
Many fans believed the episode should have been pulled following the terror
attack at French magazine Charlie Hebdo

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: TV,TV NEWS

LENGTH: 438 words


The BBC has been slammed for screening an episode of "Silent Witness" where a
sniper ran amok killing eight people including a police officer.

Fans of the crime drama believe last night's dramatic conclusion when a female
detective was gunned down by a roof-top marksman should have been pulled
following the murders of 12 people in Paris, including two police officers.

The show, watched by more than six million people, began on Tuesday on BBC1 with
a gunman killing three people at a petrol station.

Viewers on social media aired their feelings that the second instalment should
have been postponed out of respect for the murdered officers and ten staff
killed at satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo by Islamist extremists .

Sonia wrote on Twitter: "The new ep of Silent Witness was really badly timed."

Silent Witness tweet 1

Angry Hollie added: "Considering two police were killed today, I think its a bit
insensitive for the BBC to show a cop being shot on #SilentWitness !
#CharlieHebdo."

Another added: "Should it not have been pulled due to the tragic events in
Paris?"

Malik pondered if the show would air before it even started: "Wonder if @BBCOne
will pull tonight's Silent Witness - sniper on killing spree?"

And David commented: "Given today's events in Paris, I have to ask why Silent
Witness hasn't been pulled tonight."

Silent Witness tweet 2

Mark Smith added: "Really think @BBC should have pulled #SilentWitness because
of #ParisShooting #JeSuisCharlie."

Many viewers contacted the BBC Twitter account directly but were not given an
answer as to why the episode, which saw a teenager brutalised by his teacher
father and a gun-nut pal unmasked as the killers, went ahead despite the
massacre in France.

Michelle wrote: "Disappointed that the BBC allowed silent witness to go out
tonight in light of today's atrocity in Paris. Very insensitive."

The hugely popular show stars Emilia Fox, 40, as pathologist Dr Nikki Alexander
in a part she has played since 2004.

 A BBC spokeswoman said: "The background and storyline in Silent Witness was
very different to the tragic events in France".

Should Silent Witness have been postponed?

The screening came hours after three suspected al-Qaeda terrorist stormed the
offices of satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo and executed numerous workers.

After bursting into the weekly editorial meeting, the heavily armed fanatics
called out names from a hit-list of journalists before gunning them down.

Two unarmed police officers were also killed in the outrage.

Charlie Hebdo Massacre front pages

Like this? Did you know we have a dedicated TV and Film page on Facebook?

Mirror TV Facebook Promotion

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Chilling attack in France raises the terror stakes;
CITYPOINT 2 25 TYNDRUM STREET, GLASGOW G4 OJY 0141 332 9600
scotexpress@express.co.uk

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 202 words


YESTERDAY'S attack on the offices of the French magazine Charlie Hebdo provides
but one example of jihadists' warped morality. To murder people in this way
because of what they have written or drawn goes against our values of freedom
and tolerance. It is also an affront to our basic sense of humanity and
compassion.

What is most worrying about the attack on Charlie Hebdo is the level of
expertise exhibited by the terrorists; they even managed to escape after
carrying out the attack. This is indicative of a well-made and executed plan
carried out by people who are highly trained. French authorities thwarted a
number of terror plots in the weeks and months before this atrocity. However, it
is a harsh truth that it only requires the security services to fail once for
the type of attack we saw yesterday to take place successfully.

Furthermore, as Leo McKinstry writes on this page, we must not forget that
Islamist terrorism threatens the whole of the Western world. With terrorists
honing their methods of attack, the task of stopping them will become even more
difficult. Our Government and the security services must do whatever it takes to
maintain their admirable record of preventing such horrors here.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Fears terror attacks may be repeated;
LETTER OF THE DAY

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 137 words


UK HIGH STREET TRAVEL AGENT OF THE YEAR 2013

HOW tragically ironic. The word Islam means peace. Yet in its name the slaughter
of Paris was carried out.

How on earth can the fanatical extremists responsible for this atrocity
reconcile their actions with the pathway Islam was designed to tread?

They shouted at the completion of their butchery: "The prophet has been
avenged." Do they really believe the Prophet is rejoicing in his heaven over
that massacre?

I would call upon all moderate Muslims to unite in their condemnation of such
outrageous actions and to co-operate with the security services in rooting out
the extremists who shelter in their midst.

Otherwise, there will be many more atrocities of this type with the loss of many
innocent lives as we have had the misfortune to witness in Paris.

Denis Bruce, Bishopbriggs

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALERT: Soldiers on patrol in Paris after the terrorist attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 06:58 AM GMT

Global Vigils To Mourn Paris Terror Attack Dead

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 411 words



HIGHLIGHT: Vigils have been held in cities across the globe to mourn the victims
of the Paris terror attack and show support for freedom of speech.


  More than 35,000 people gathered in Paris where gunmen stormed the offices of
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, killing 10 journalists and two police
officers.

Thousands also turned out in the French cities of Lyon, Toulouse, Bordeaux and
Marseille.

Many of those at the Place de la Republique in the French capital carried signs
with the words "Je suis Charlie", which mean "I am Charlie" in English.

Others used slogans such as "press freedom has no price" and "Charb mort libre"
(Charb died free), a reference to the magazine's editor Stephane Charbonnier,
one of four cartoonists killed by the terrorists.

Hundreds of people took to the streets of Berlin, London, New York, Brussels,
Madrid, Rome and Vienna to express their horror at the killings.

About 500 people stood in silence in front of the French embassy in Berlin, with
many holding candles and waving the European Union flag.

In Trafalgar Square, people held up their mobile phones showing the "Je suis
Charlie" message.

Some sang the Marseillaise, the French national anthem, while holding pens as a
symbol of press freedom.

"I heard the news ... like everyone else and it hit me hard," said Frenchman
Nabil Nadifi, 29, who lives in London.

"I didn't necessarily agree with everything Charlie Hebdo published, but that
doesn't mean an act like this was justified."

In Spain, the French ambassador to Madrid, Jerome Bonnafont, joined a crowd of
several hundred people outside the embassy shouting "Free speech, free speech".

"I came because in the face of barbarity, freedom of expression must prevail,"
said Natalia Prieto, a 27-year-old Spanish woman.

Around 150 people, most of them French, also stood in silence outside the French
embassy on the Piazza Farnese in the heart of Rome.

In Montreal, more than 1,000 people braved temperatures of minus 20C to express
solidarity with France.

Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper expressed his anger and sadness over the
"barbaric" attack.

"Canadians stand with France on this dark day," he said.

"Canada and its allies will not be intimidated and will continue to stand firmly
together against terrorists who would threaten the peace, freedom and democracy
our countries so dearly value."

PHOTO:

Link to Image

VIDEO:

Thousands Attend Vigil At Place De La Republique In Paris

Thousands of people came out in cities across France last night for peaceful but
defiant vigils lighting candles and holding up copies of Charlie Hebdo.

Link to Video

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 06:57 AM GMT

Paris Terror Attack: Two Brothers On The Run

BYLINE: Ian Woods, Senior Correspondent, In Paris

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 446 words



HIGHLIGHT: A massive manhunt is under way for two suspects in the Paris terror
attack on a French satirical magazine.


  Images have been released of brothers Said Kouachi and Cherif Kouachi, both in
their 30s, who are suspected of being part of the attack that left 12 people
dead.

Officials have said the suspects are linked to a Yemeni terror network.

The youngest of three suspects in the shooting has surrendered to police.

Reports suggest Hamyd Mourad, 18, handed himself in to officers after hearing
his name on the news.

On Wednesday night heavily armoured French police raided an apartment in the
city of Reims, east of Paris, as they continued a massive manhunt to find the
killers.

Thousands of officers have reportedly been deployed in the hunt for the men
behind the attack on the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.

It has previously been targeted over its portrayal of the Prophet Mohammed.

In Wednesday's attack, three masked gunmen stormed the offices and called out
their victims by name before opening fire during a morning editorial meeting.

They were armed with Kalashnikov rifles and a rocket-propelled grenade.

They were let inside the Charlie Hebdo building by a female employee who was
threatened at gunpoint along with her daughter and forced to punch in a security
code to allow them inside.

The editor and a cartoonist for the newspaper, who went by the pen names Charb
and Cabu, were among those killed.

Radio France chief executive Mathieu Gilet announced that contributor Bernard
Maris was also killed.

Two police officers were among the dead, including one assigned as Charb's
bodyguard after he had received death threats and another who was shot in the
head as he lay wounded on the ground outside the offices.

He has been named as Ahmed Merabet and is believed to be a Muslim.

French President Francois Hollande has declared today a national day of
mourning.

In a televised address on Wednesday he said: "We have to respond according to
the crime, first of all by finding the authors of this infamy and we have to
ensure that they are arrested, judged... and punished very severely."

Tens of thousands of people have staged silent protests in France and across the
world in solidarity for the victims of the attack.

Social media users have used the hashtag #jesuischarlie to show solidarity for
the victims of the shooting, with the Charlie Hebdo website also using the image
as its masthead.

:: Sky News is running a poll on social media today: "Should the media publish
satirical religious cartoons?". You can vote on Facebook or Twitter using
hashtags #SkyPollYes or #SkyPollNo

PHOTO:

Link to Image

VIDEO:

Brothers Wanted Over Attack Are Named And Police Raid In Reims

Sky's Ian Woods has the latest developments on the case.

Link to Video

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 4:27 PM GMT

Nigel Farage accused of exploiting Paris terror attacks as he hits out at
multiculturalism

BYLINE: Joe Murphy and Nicholas Cecil

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 262 words


Nigel Farage today caused controversy by criticising the UK's "gross policy of
multiculturalism" in the wake of the Paris attacks.

Deputy premier Nick Clegg accused the Ukip leader of exploiting the tragedy for
"political points" and to imply wrongly that British Muslims are "part of the
problem".

Mr Clegg clashed passionately with a caller called Omar who suggested the Paris
attacks had been provoked during his weekly LBC programme.

"There can be no excuse, no reason, no explanation," hit back the Deputy Prime
Minister. "They have killed cartoonists who have done nothing more than draw
drawings which they so happened to find offensive.

"And do you know what? Here's the bottom line, Omar, at the end of the day in a
free society, people have to be free to offend each other.

"You cannot have freedom unless people are free to offend. We have no right not
to be offended."

Reacting to the atrocity last night, Mr Farage said the attack was the result of
"having a fifth column" living in Western countries opposed to their ideals.

He told Channel 4 News: "There is a very strong argument that says that what
happened in Paris today is a result - and we've seen it in London too - is a
result I'm afraid of now having a fifth column living within these countries.

Related links

"We've got people living in these countries, holding our passports, who hate us.

"Luckily their numbers are very, very small but it does make one question the
whole really gross attempt at encouraged division within society that we have
had in the past few decades in the name of multiculturalism."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Swindon Advertiser

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Wiltshire Police observe two-minute silence after Paris terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 144 words


Wiltshire Police officers and staff observed a two-minute silence at 10.30am
today to pay their respects to the victims of yesterday's Paris terrorist
attack.

In the attack 12 people, including two police officers, lost their lives at the
Charlie Hebdo satirical newspaper.

The weekly newspaper had been threatened before for its controversial cartoons
including those of the Prophet Muhammed.

France has declared national mourning for the victims of the attack.

A minute's silence was observed at midday (11:00 GMT) across the country and the
bells of Notre Dame cathedral in the capital tolled.

A minute's silence will be held at football grounds in France this weekend out
of respect for the victims, the French Football Federation has announced.

Today two people were shot, a policewoman dying, at Montrouge, on the southern
edge of Paris, including a police officer.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 11:58 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo attack: terrible reminder of terror risk, says head of MI5;
Andrew Parker, Director General of MI5, offers support to French counterpart as
security is stepped up at British ports

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead and Matthew Holehouse

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 840 words


The Paris terror attacks are a "terrible reminder" of the intent of Islamist
extremists to harm the West, the head of MI5 has said.

Andrew Parker, Director General of the Security Service, said he had spoken
personally with his French counterpart and had offered his agency's full
support.

MI5 officers are also closely monitoring their own extremist suspects in case
any are inspired to copy the French atrocities, it is understood.

Security has been tightened at British ports and at UK passport control posts in
France in response to the Paris terror attack, Downing Street said this morning.

Mr Parker will reference the Paris outrage in a long-planned and wide-ranging
speech later.

In it, he will say: "It is too early for us to come to judgments about the
precise details or origins of the attack but it is a terrible reminder of the
intentions of those who wish us harm.

"As you would expect, we are offering our French colleagues our full support as
they respond."

In his first speech in 2013, Mr Parker warned that Britain was facing its
gravest terror threat, including from "several thousand" Islamist extremists who
are living here and want to attack the country.

A heightened visible presence at the British passport control at the Gard du
Nord Eurostar terminal in Paris has now been ordered following the French
attacks.

There will be a heightened visible presence of security officials at the British
passport control at the Gard du Nord Eurostar terminal in Paris.

There will be increased checks of cars, trucks and freight arriving at British
ports including Calais, the Prime Minister's Deputy Official Spokesman said.

British tourists in France have been told to "take extra care" and obey the
instructions of French security officials, in new advice issued this morning by
the Foreign Office.

Intelligence on the two suspects is being shared with British border officials.

The move does not come in response to any specific piece of intelligence, but is
a precautionary measure in response to the events in Paris, Downing Street said.

"As a British citizen, I want to know that if there is an attack in a
neighbouring country, that has port crossings into ours, you would expect the UK
authorities to be doing all they can to keep us safe," the PMDOS said. "This is
based on where we think it is appropriate."

"We will be working with the [intelligence] agencies and doing all we can to
prevent any perpetrators or those linked with the attacks to reach the UK. But
it is not based on any specific that says that that is likely."

The threat level to Britain remains unchanged at Severe, the second-highest
rating that means a terrorist attack is "highly likely". There is no evidence at
this stage of a British link to the suspects, the PMDOS said.

The measures were imposed last night, and announced following a meeting this
morning of COBRA, the civil contingencies committee, chaired by the Home
Secretary and attended by representatives of MI5 and MI6.

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: "The intelligence does not suggest there is
any change in the threat level here but on a precautionary basis we have
tightened up border security, particularly at our juxtaposed controls.

"For example at ports people going through them will see increased car and truck
searches, a bit more scanning of freight.

"They will also see an increased visible presence, for example at our juxtaposed
control at Gare du Nord in Paris.

"This is about looking at what we think is appropriate given the incident, but
is not based on any change to the threat level."

An extra British police counter-terrorism officer has been sent to work with an
existing British intelligence team in Paris.

The Foreign Office has distributed the latest intelligence to embassies
throughout Europe.

On Thursday morning the Union Flag above Downing Street was lowered to
half-mast, and the Prime Minister took part in a minute's silence at 11am,
coinciding with similar commemorations in France.

Downing Street indicated that newspapers and magazines should feel free to
publish the cartoons that are said to have "provoked" the attack.

"We are standing up for freedom of speech and democracy," the PMDOS said. "If
media organisations have concerns about security, they should speak to the
police."

Members of Parliament, peers and journalists took part in a demonstration of
solidarity with Charlie Hebdo staff in the Palace of Westminster. They held pens
in the air and signs reading "Je suis Charlie".

In updated travel advice to tourists, the Foreign Office said: "On 7 January,
gunmen attacked the Charlie Hebdo newspaper offices in the east of Paris.
Reports indicate 12 people were killed in the attack. On 8 January, a gunman
shot and injured individuals in Montrouge, a town to the south west of Paris.
You should take extra care at this time and follow the security advice issued by
the French authorities."

It follows three attacks before Christmas, involving vehicles being driven into
market places, which police are treating as terrorist incidents.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 9:11 PM GMT

First photos from inside Charlie Hebdo offices following Paris terrorist attack;

The first photographs taken inside the Paris offices of satirical magazine
Charlie Hebdo have been released, as the manhunt for the culprits continues

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 285 words


Photos from the scene of France's worst terrorist attack in 50 years were
released on Thursday night, showing the devastation caused by jihadi brothers
Said and Cherif Kouachi as they killed 12 people in what they claimed was an
attack by al Qaeda.

The pair launched their murderous rampage on Wednesday and targeted the offices
of Charlie Hebdo - a satirical magazine which was known for poking fun at
politicians, public figures and different religions.

It has caricatured the Prophet Mohammed three times in recent years, and in
November 2011 was firebombed as a result - forcing the team to move to their
present location.

Arriving at the offices near the Bastille, in central Paris, they stormed into
the open plan building - having shot dead a security guard on their way in. They
then forced Corrine Rey, an employee, to punch in her code to enter the door.

Once inside they asked for Charb, the editor and a cartoonist, by name before
shooting him dead.

And the photos show the terror of that moment, with papers strewn across the
rooms and red blood stains on the wooden floor.

A bullet hole is visible in the wall, and more are seen in the windows.
Survivors said they only saved themselves by cowering behind a desk.

The 12 victims were eight journalists; two police; a visitor and a maintenance
worker. Among the journalists were four of France's most celebrated cartoonists.

On Thursday, however, the magazine's editorial team vowed to continue their
work. They said the next edition, published on Wednesday, would be the largest
yet. François Hollande, the French president, said that the state would provide
a million euros in finding to keep the low-circulation, niche - but much loved -
magazine alive.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 7:19 PM GMT

Christian Adams: Charlie Hebdo shooting must not curtail cartoonists;
The Telegraph's cartoonist Christian Adams says satirists must not be gagged by
the terrorist attack on a French magazine

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 69 words


Cartoonists around the world have been paying tribute with their pens to the
victims of Wednesday's attack on satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in which 12
people were killed.

Below is the response by Telegraph cartoonist Christian Adams .

Matt                     , the Telegraph's pocket cartoonist, also turned his
pen on the extremists.

Watch more cartoon tributes here:

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 5:51 PM GMT

Je Suis Charlie: Vigils held around the world after Paris terror attack, in
pics;
Thousands of people around the world have expressed their solidarity with
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo following the attack in Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 22 words


Thousands of people around the world have expressed their solidarity with
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo following the attack in Paris

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 3:46 PM GMT

Islam is defined by its followers. We moderate Muslims must act;
Paris Charlie Hebdo terrorist attack: It's vital, should a religion be
'hijacked' in any way, that the majority of its followers at least discuss the
problem, argues Shaheen Hashmat

BYLINE: By Shaheen Hashmat

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1135 words


"Allah Akbar!" was the cry from two gunmen, armed with Kalashnikovs, who burst
into the offices of French magazine Charlie Hebdo on Wednesday, opening fire and
killing 12 people.

It's widely suspected that brothers Said (34) and Cherif (32) Kouachi, both
French nationals, were acting to 'avenge the prophet Muhammad' after his image
was depicted in satirical cartoons published in the magazine.

The incident has been described as France's worst terrorist attack in 50 years.

We are all too familiar with the narrative that follows atrocities of this
nature: anger about the damaging effects of poor immigration policy, calls for
'moderate' Muslims to condemn the actions, followed by #NotinMyName social media
campaigns ('Je suis Charlie' in this case), designed to clarify that the
perpetrators were not in fact acting in the name of 'true' Islam.

If I sound a little weary, it's because I am.

Like all of us, I'm heartbroken by Wednesday's events. But it was with an even
greater sadness that I realised I wasn't at all surprised to hear of yet another
act of Islamist terrorism. I believe it will be some time yet before we hear of
the last.

I am not religious myself, but I do come from a Muslim background . I know how
widely beliefs and values can differ within the same family. And I have
first-hand experience of how difficult it can be to express criticism, or
opposing viewpoints, to those who are conservative in their outlook. Especially
when they are close relatives.

It's this feeling that, many agree, has led to the identity crisis currently
occurring within Islam. There is much disagreement among Muslims themselves
about which is the true interpretation to follow.

Of course the actions of radical sects are unacceptable by any moral code that
values basic human rights - and it's important to understand that the majority
of Muslims find them as abhorrent as the rest of us. But, despite the rejection
of such extremists as 'true' Muslims, I believe it's important to accept that
there are some hardcore, right-wing sects of Islam that do adhere to literal
interpretations of the Q'uran.

Acts of terrorism, preceded by cries of 'Allah Akbar' (God is greatest), are now
being carried out by a growing body of religious fundamentalists, who are
successfully claiming their version of 'Muslim' as the only true definition of
the term.

Having personally endured, within my own family, the abuse that is so often
justified in the name of Islam, I am continually frustrated to see this
replicated at an international level and denied as being an issue within
moderate religious groups.

By acknowledging this, I am emphatically not dismissing the equally worrying
issue of anti-Muslim bigotry. I'm just as committed to fighting that as I am to
combating terrorism.

But a religion is defined by its followers. They are the ones who interpret
scripture and incorporate it into everyday practice. So it's vital, should that
religion be 'hijacked' in any way, that the majority at least discusses the
problem.

Shaaz Mahboob, Trustee of British Muslims for Secular Democracy, is calling for
reform within Islam.

He told me: "Muslims must start actually thinking about their religion in order
to counter the narrative of extremist ideology. As things stand, Muslims are not
supposed to even consider the morality of Islamic scripture - it just isn't
questioned. How can you begin to change things when you're not even allowed to
question them?"

Mahboob goes further and states that Muslims and non-Muslims alike, who know of
terrorist activity occurring in their communities and families, have a duty to
report to the police. Failure to do so, he adds, is a "betrayal of trust".

Because when it comes to tackling fundamentalism, the personal is political. A
47-year-old Muslim woman, Gina Khan, who works as a researcher and activist, has
taken the step of reporting members of her own family suspected of terrorist
activity. She told me: "I reported a relative involved in a group who think they
are the religious police over Muslims in Birmingham, halting behavior that they
think is un-Islamic.

"One group stopped dancing and music. Although there may be a backlash as a
result of reporting family who are pro-Taliban or ISIS, we are just guilty if we
maintain a silence and allow them to normalize aggressive jihadism.

"I wouldn't think twice about reporting family again."

Of course, no individual in a democratic society should be punished for simply
practicing their faith. But the gunmen involved in the Paris shooting (or those
involved in incidents in Sydney, Boston, Woolwich and so on) are not interested
living according to the principles of democracy while doing so.

Their actions threaten the basic freedoms that form the bedrock of our society.
Muslims in the West are protected by these principles and would otherwise have
been branded as heretics, historically. Yet calls to curb extremist ideology
that seeks to impose decidedly non-democratic rule here are met with accusations
of racism.

I am, in no way, placing the burden of responsibility for such atrocities as
that which occurred in Paris yesterday on the shoulders of peaceful, law-abiding
Muslims. However, there are issues they must address within their communities.

But the job isn't theirs alone.

I'm glad to see development of detailed efforts in this country at government
and local authority level to address extremism. There are clear procedures in
place for reporting terrorist activity and the level of detail outlined in the
UK government's Prevent strategy highlights the scale of effort required to
tackle this growing problem.

I believe that more can be done at an international level in terms of imposing
sanctions on countries that do not adhere to basic human rights - those who
permit stoning a woman to death if she is found to have had sex outside of
marriage, for example, or the cutting of hands in cases of theft. And that's
without even touching on the horror visited upon those in the LGBT community.

But I believe that without the same level of effort from the religious
communities directly affected by extremism, we are treating the symptoms and not
the cause of an ideology that is permeating our society. Unless meaningful,
practical action is taken to wrest control of their faith from murderers, people
will likely continue to die.

As arrests are made in the hunt for the gunmen responsible for yesterday's
horrific attack, one thing is very clear: free speech - and the freedom to speak
out against extremist, non-democratic behaviour, whether in the press or your
community - is our most precious resource and must be protected at all costs.

The Muslim community must step up to the plate, along with everyone else.

- Charlie Hebdo attack: latest updates

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 1:57 PM GMT

David Cameron: We must repeat belief in our values in face of Paris terror
attack;
The best way to defend Britain's democratic values it to "repeat our faith" in
them, David Cameron says, following the Charlie Hebdo Paris shooting

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video and PA, video source LBC

LENGTH: 168 words


The Paris terror shootings are clearly "a challenge to the values of free
speech, freedom of expression, democracy, tolerance that we believe in and the
best way to stand up for these values is to repeat our belief in them",
according to the Prime Minister

His thoughts were with the French people following the "appalling" events in
Paris, he told business leaders at a conference in Manchester.

Speaking at the Old Granada TV Studios, the Prime Minister added: "Everyone's
thoughts will be with the French people and will be thinking about the appalling
events that happened yesterday in Paris.

"These are a challenge to our security because we have to fight this terrorism
with everything we have.

"But they are also a challenge to our values and ... when it comes to security
we must use every part or vigilance and security we have."

When it comes to values he said the best way to protect them was to "repeat our
belief" in them.

He added: "We stand with them today in defending the values we all hold dear."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 12:55 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo: world leaders' reactions to terror attack;
We wrap up political reaction from around the world, as the international
community joins together in condemnation of the terror attacks on Charlie Hebdo
in Paris

BYLINE: By Harriet Line and Our Foreign Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2168 words


USA

Barack Obama, the US President, said: "France, and the great city of Paris where
this outrageous attack took place, offer the world a timeless example that will
endure well beyond the hateful vision of these killers".

His words were echoed by Secretary of State John Kerry: "They may wield weapons,
but we in France and in the United States share a commitment to those who wield
something that is far more powerful: not just a pen, but a pen that represents
an instrument of freedom, not fear," he said.

"Free expression and a free press are core values they are universal values,
principles that can be attacked but never eradicated."

Germany

Chancellor Merkel said: "What has happened in Paris today is indeed a barbarous
attack against all of the values we share.

"All of us that live in Europe strongly condemn these attacks and our thoughts
go out to the French people and particularly to those who have lost loved one in
this horrendous attack.

"This is an attack against the values we all hold dear, values by which we
stand, values of freedom of the press, freedom in general and the dignity of
man.

"And again our thoughts are with the French people with all of those who have
lost loved one in this horrific attack and everything we can do to help the
French we will certainly do."

Italy

Pope Francis has offered prayers at an early morning Mass for the victims of the
terrorist attack on the offices of Charlie Hebdo.

Speaking in the chapel of Casa Santa Marta, his residence within the Vatican,
the Pope said: "[Wednesday's] terror attack in Paris brings to mind so much
cruelty - human cruelty - so much terrorism, both isolated [incidents of]
terrorism and of state terrorism."

"We pray, in this Mass, for the victims of this cruelty - so many of them - and
we pray also for the perpetrators of such cruelty, that the Lord might change
their heart."

Russia

Usually hawkish politicians have seized on the attacks as a reason for France
and Russia to find common ground. Tweeting in French, Alexei Pushkov, the
usually abrasive chairman of the Duma's foreign policy committee, said:
"Terrorist attacks in France and Russia come from the same source. [It is] one
more reason to cooperate, rather than be in conflict."

Russian President Vladimir Putin has condemned "this cynical crime" and offered
his condolences to the victims and their families.

Norway

The murder of 77 people in Norway in 2011, was committed by a far-right fanatic,
Anders Behring Breivik, rather than Islamist militants.

Prime Minister Erna Solberg sent a condolence letter to French President
Francois Hollande.

It read: "On behalf of the Norwegian government. I offer condolences after the
hideous assassination of editorial team of Charlie Hebdo. This attack in Paris
touches everyone who wants to keep free speech alive. We will not let us scare
to self-censorship.

"Let me express our full solidarity and our deepest sympathy with the victims
and their families, as well as with the French people."

Egypt

Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, Egypt's president, sent condolences via telegram to
Francois Hollande. He said: "Terrorism is an international phenomenon that
should be faced and terminated through joint international effort."

Al-Azhar, the prestigious Sunni Islam centre of learning in Cairo, condemned the
"criminal attack," saying that "Islam denounces any violence", according Egypt's
state news agency MENA.

"Arab League chief Nabil al-Arabi strongly condemns the terrorist attack on
Charlie Hebdo newspaper in Paris," the League said after gunmen stormed the
weekly's offices.

Saudi Arabia

A Saudi official described it as a: "Cowardly terrorist act which Islam as well
as other religions reject.

"[Saudi Arabia] offers its condolences to the families of the victims as well as
the government and people of the French republic and wishes a speedy recovery
for the wounded," the official said.

Lebanon

Prime Minister Tammam Salam slammed the "unacceptable and unjustifiable
terrorist act."

He expressed his "sympathy with the families of the victims during this painful
circumstance" in a fax to Francois Hollande.

Former Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri also denounced the assault, saying
that the perpetrators actually targeted the education and values of Islam.

"If what was attributed to eyewitnesses about the identity of the perpetrators
is true, then those who use the name of the Holy Prophet as a means to ask for
revenge and commit the most heinous acts, are a group of misguided people who do
not only aim to harm Islamic-French relations, but also target Islam as a
religion, values, education and permanent calls for moderation, dialogue and
integration between religions."

Hariri added: "In all cases, the attack on the French capital is a clumsy stab
that harms Islam and hundreds of thousands of Muslims who have been living in
France for decades, and benefitting from social, political and human rights."

India

The Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi, condemned the "despicable attack".
He tweeted: "Condemnable & despicable attack in Paris. Our solidarity with
people of France. My thoughts are with families of those who lost their lives."

India's Minister of Finance, Arun Jaitley, also deplored the attack as he
tweeted: "Paris shooting incident is an ugly attack on humanity .It's a wakeup
call for international community to unite against terrorism."

Australia

Tony Abbott, Australia's prime minister, described the Charlie Hebdo attack in
Paris as a "barabaric act" as Australians took to the streets to pledge support
for free speech.

Mr Abbott expressed condolences to the families of victims, saying freedom of
expression was the cornerstone of a free society.

"Australia stands with the people and the government of France at this difficult
time," he said.

In Melbourne, more than 1,000 people attended a protest organised by the local
French community to remember the victims of the attack.

"It doesn't matter what we think about religion or politics, we just have to be
together," said Maeva Siena, the protest organiser, whose friend was among the
injured in Paris.

Japan

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe expressed "profound shock and indignation" at
Wednesday's deadly gun attack in a message delivered to French President
Francois Hollande, the Japanese Foreign Ministry said this morning.

Abe said: "We categorically condemn any cowardly act of terrorism no matter what
the motive may be" and "we mourn all the victims and offer condolences from our
heart to their families."

"At this difficult time, Japan is with France," he said.

Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida also delivered a similar message to his French
counterpart Laurent Fabius.

Following the shooting in Paris, the Japanese Foreign Ministry issued a travel
advisory Wednesday night to people traveling to, or staying in, France, urging
caution when visiting department stores, markets or other places that draw a
large number of people.

South Korea

On Thursday, South Korea strongly condemned the "shocking terror attack" on a
French satirical magazine, vowing to join international efforts to fight
terrorism.

"The government cannot hide its shock over the deaths of many people including
police officers in the act of terrorism on the headquarters of Charlie Hebdo and
strongly denounces this terrorist act," the foreign ministry said in a
statement.

"The South Korean government prays for the repose of the victims and offers its
deep condolences to the bereaved families and the French people."

"Under the firm stance that terrorism is an unjustifiable, anti-civil and
anti-human act that must be eradicated, South Korea supports the French
government's fight against terrorism," it said.

The South Korean government will take active part in the international
community's efforts to uproot terrorism, it added.

South Africa

Clayson Monyela, a spokesman for the South African government, condemned the
"calculated and barbaric" attack.

"Deliberate attacks against journalists and members of the public contravene
international law and constitute a crime against humanity," he said.

"South Africa stands firmly with the international community by unequivocally
condemning all terrorism and will continue to support regional and international
efforts to address the scourge of terrorism in all its forms."

Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, the chairman of the African Union, condemned the
"horrific and barbaric" attack.

"Dr Dlamini Zuma described the tragic incident as a clear attack on press
freedom and all other forms freedom of expression," the AU said in a statement.
"This act of terrorism, as with all others that continue to be perpetuated
around the world, must be condemned and fought against with unreserved energy by
the international community."

China

A spokesperson for China's Foreign Ministry said Beijing was "profoundly shocked
by the terrorist attack".

"We strongly condemn that. The Chinese side mourns the victims and extends
sincere sympathy to the bereaved families and the injured. The Chinese side
resolutely opposes terrorism in all manifestations and supports the efforts by
the French side to safeguard security of the country," he added.

The Chinese statement did not touch on the issue of freedom of speech.

Israel

Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, attacked radical Islam on
Thursday in a meeting with Borge Brende, the visiting Norwegian foreign
minister.

"Yesterday's murderous attack on free expression clearly demonstrates the
disdain of radical Islam for the values we hold dear," he said. "We cherish
freedom and tolerance; they worship tyranny and terror. And through this terror
they seek to impose a new dark age on humanity.

"These extremists are part of a global movement and this necessitates a global
response. I believe that with the strength of our resolve and the unity of our
action, we can defeat this threat to our common civilization. And what the
battle against terror requires is courage, clarity and consistency."

In comments hinting at a rebuke over the recent votes in European legislatures -
including Britain - in favour of recognizing Palestinian statehood, he added:
"Israel is being attacked by the very same forces that attack Europe. Israel
stands with Europe. Europe must stand with Israel."

Reuven Rivlin, the Israeli president, also drew on Israel's experience in a
letter of condolence to Mr Hollande.

"We all, throughout the free world, face the threat of terrorism and must stand
united in the fight against those who seek to stifle free thought and continue
to destroy the lives of so many, " Mr Rivlin wrote. "Sadly, I am no stranger to
the horror and grief that follows such murderous attacks. We stand with France
in its determination to safeguard freedom of speech and the freedom of the press
that are central pillars of any democracy."

Palestinian Authority

Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian Authority leader, called the attacks a "heinous
crime" in a telegram to Francois Hollande and said they were "condemned by
morality and religion", according to a statement issued by his office in
Ramallah.

"The president expressed to the French president and the French people, friends
of Palestine, and the families of the victims, our condolences, begging mercy
for the souls of the victims, wishing a speedy recovery for the injured, and
patience and courage to their families," the statement said.

Moustafa Barghouti, secetary general of the Palestinian National Initiative,
distanced the murders from Islam and instead compared them with the
assassination of Naji al-Ali, a prominent Palestinian caricaturist who died
after being shot by an unknown assailant in London in 1987.

"This attack that led to the killing of courageous journalists does not
represent Islam or Muslim culture but rather represents oppressions brutality to
silence the voices of free thought across the world," he said. "The (Charlie
Hebdo) cartoonists Wolinski, Cabu, Charb and Tignous were killed today for their
freedom and their opinions just like Palestinian cartoonist Naji Al-Ali was
killed in 1987 but their voices shall never be silenced."

Naji al-Ali's death led to Margaret Thatcher, the then prime minister, ordering
the London offices of Mossad closed after the Israeli foreign intelligence
organisation was found to have had prior knowledge of the assassination plan
through Palestinian double agents but failed to inform the British authorities.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 12:18 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo attack: The 12 victims of Paris shooting;
As France reels from worst terror attack in generation at office of satirical
magazine, 12 victims of masked al-Qaeda gunmen are named

BYLINE: By Telegraph reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 182 words


Three suspected al-Qaeda gunmen launched a murderous attack at the offices of
Charlie Hebdo, the French satirical magazine, leaving 12 dead. They have been
named as:

· Charb - (real name Stephane Charbonnier) 47, an artist and publisher of
Charlie Hebdo

· Cabu - (real name Jean Cabut) 76, the lead cartoonist for Charlie Hebdo

· Georges Wolinski - 80, an artist who had been drawing cartoons since the 1960s

· Tignous - (real name Bernard Verlhac) 57, a member of Cartoonists for Peace

· Bernard Maris - (known as "Uncle Bernard") 68, an economist and columnist for
the magazine

· Honoré - (real name Philippe Honoré) 73, the artist who drew the last cartoon
tweeted by the weekly publication

· Michel Renaud - a former journalist who was visiting the Charlie Hebdo offices

· Mustapha Ourrad - a copy-editor for Charlie Hebdo

· Elsa Cayat - a columnist and analyst for Charlie Hebdo

· Frederic Boisseau - a building maintenance worker

· Franck Brinsolaro - 49, a policeman appointed to head security for Charb

· Ahmed Merabet - 42, a police officer and member of the 11th arrondissement
brigade

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 12:17 PM GMT

Paris shooting at Charlie Hebdo office: how terrorist attack unfolded;
Twelve people have been killed in France's worst terrorist attack for 50 years.
This is how the shooting at the offices of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo
unfolded

BYLINE: By Gordon Rayner Chief Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1164 words


A terrorist attack on the offices of the French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo
(Charlie Weekly) has left 12 people dead in the country's worst terrorist
incident for 50 years. Gunmen shouting "Allahu akbar", or God is Great, claimed
to be from al-Qaeda as they picked off their targets. This is how the attack
unfolded.

Killers raid office and shoot dead 10 people

At around 11.20am local time, two hooded gunmen pull up in a black Citroen C3
and storm the offices of Charlie Hebdo in Rue Nicolas Appert in Paris's 11th
arrondissement. As they approach, they reportedly say to a man in the street:
"Tell the media this is from al-Qaeda in Yemen." According to one report, they
initially go to the wrong building - No.11 - before realising the magazine is
based next door.

The magazine's previous premises were burned down in 2011 after it published
cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed. Reporters from an office next door, who take
refuge on the roof, report that the men are armed with Kalashnikov assault
rifles and a rocket launcher.

The atackers force their way into the building

Corinne Rey, a cartoonist for Charlie Hebdo, is forced at gunpoint to enter the
security code for the front door. "When I arrived in front of the door of the
building of the paper, two men hooded and armed brutally threatened us," she
says later. "They wanted to come in, go up. I pressed in the code."

The gunmen calmly enter the second floor editorial office, "commando style",
reportedly seeking out journalists by name and calling their surnames in turn as
they open fire, killing ten people and injuring at least five. The senior staff
had been in a weekly editorial meeting at the time, ahead of the magazine going
to press, as was intended, later in the day.

Editor-in-chief and co-workers slaughtered

The magazine's publication director, Stephane Charbonnier, known as Charb
(above), who had a price put on his head by al-Qaeda in 2013, is reported to be
among the dead, along with cartoonists Jean Cabu, Bernard "Tignous" Verlhac and
Georges Wolinski.

Ms Rey says: "It lasted five minutes...I had hidden under my desk They shot on
Wolinski, Cabu... They spoke French perfectly... they said they were al-Qaeda."

Benoit Bringer, a journalist who works next door for the agency Premieres Lignes
Tele, tells French TV: "Two black-hooded men entered the building with
Kalashnikovs. A few minutes later we heard lots of shots." He says the gunmen
left the building after ten minutes. According to one report, they shouted: "We
have killed Charlie Hebdo! We have avenged the Prophet Mohammed!"

15 shots fired into a police car

Three policemen on pushbikes are the first responders to arrive at the scene,
but they take refuge until backup arrives. "I saw [the gunmen] leaving and
shooting," said one witness. "They were wearing masks. These guys were serious.
At first I thought it was special forces chasing drug traffickers or something."

When a police car blocks the gunmen's escape route down the narrow street, the
gunmen open fire, shouting "Allahu Akhbar", or God is great, as they do so.

One of the journalists taking refuge on the roof next door to the Charlie Hebdo
office takes a video of the incident. The rear winscreen of the Citroen appears
to have shattered.

A police car is later photographed with 15 bullet holes in its windscreen and
one in its bonnet. It is unclear whether it is the same car seen in the video.

Policemen murdered on the street

The gunmen drive away, wounding a policeman, then knocking over and wounding
several pedestrians. A short while later they stop in Boulevard Richard Lenoir,
a residential street, and get out of the car to attack a policeman.

In a video shot from an upstairs window, and posted on YouTube, the hooded
killers get out of the Citroen, holding automatic rifles. The driver sidesteps
around a white rental van and fires three shots in quick succession, hitting the
policeman, who is left lying on the pavement.

A further five shots are fired, apparently by the second gunman, as the
policeman rolls onto his side, trying to protect himself. The two gunmen run
towards him, and the stricken policeman turns and looks over his shoulder to see
them approaching, then holds up his right hand the first gunman runs past him
and appears to shoot him in the head with a single shot from no more than a foot
away. The policeman stops moving.

Holding their guns across their chests, military style, the gunmen jog back to
the Citroen, shouting to each other. One holds up a finger, as if in triumph .

The passenger stoops down to pick up a shoe he had lost as he got out of the
car, and the gunmen, who seem not to be in a hurry, get back in and drive off.

The gunmen drive north and abandon the Citroen in Rue de Meaux, then hijack
another vehicle before leaving central Paris. Police confirm two policeman have
been killed, taking the death toll to 12. One of the dead policemen is later
reported to be Charb's bodyguard, assigned to him after prior death threats.

Medics rush to the scene of carnage

At the scene of the attack, paramedics evacuate the wounded as police describe
the scene inside as "carnage". The number of wounded is reported to be 20, with
five critical.

Wandrille Lanos, a TV reporter who works across the road and one of the first
people to enter the Charlie Hebdo office after the attack, says: "As we
progressed into the office, we saw that the number of casualties was very high.
There was a lot of people dead on the floor, and there was blood everywhere."

President Francois Hollande rushes to the scene. "An act of indescribable
barbarity has just been committed today in Paris," he says. "Measures have been
taken to find those responsible, they will be hunted for as long as it takes to
catch them and bring them to justice."

With the gunmen still at large, Paris is placed on maximum terror alert, with
police and military protection at other newspaper offices that could be targets,
as well as tourist sites, department stores and metro stations.

The getaway car is abandoned

The black Citroen is discovered abandoned in a Paris street after the gunmen are
forced to abandon when it hits a bollard. Police experts begin a detailed
examination in a desperate search for clues that might uncover the identity of
the gunmen and help point to where they could be. An identity card iss later
leaked on social media after one of the gunmen reportedly leaves it in the
Citroen.

The French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve says three attackers are being
sought.

Shortly before 3pm, a car is found burning outside a Paris synagogue. It is
unclear whether the car is the second one used by the gunmen or even whether it
is related to the terrorist attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 12:05 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo attack: eyewitness describes terror of Paris shooting;
French journalist Laure Bretton says she heard "20 to 30 shots and saw people
running " as hooded gunmen attacked the offices of Charlie Hebdo in Paris,
France

BYLINE: By Charlotte Krol video source ITN

LENGTH: 274 words


Hooded gunmen stormed the Paris offices                      of a weekly
satirical magazine known for lampooning Islam and other religions, shooting dead
at least 12 people, including two police officers, in the worst militant attack
on French soil in decades.

One of the assailants was captured on video outside the building shouting
"Allahu Akbar!" (God is Greatest) as shots rang out. Another walked over to a
police officer lying wounded on the street and shot him point-blank with an
assault rifle, before the two calmly climbed into a black car and drove off.

A police union official said the assailants - Interior Minister Bernard
Cazeneuve said there were three in total - remained at liberty and there were
fears of further attacks. The official described the scene in the offices as
carnage.

The government declared the highest state of alert, increasing security at
transport hubs, religious sites, media offices and department stores as the
search for the assailants got under way.

Charlie Hebdo (Charlie Weekly)                      is well known for courting
controversy with satirical attacks on political and religious leaders of all
faiths and has published numerous cartoons ridiculing the Prophet Mohammad.
Jihadists online have repeatedly warned that the magazine would pay for its
ridicule.

The last major attack in Paris was in the mid-1990s when the Algerian Armed
Islamic Group (GIA) carried out a spate of attacks, including the bombing of a
commuter train in 1995 which killed eight people and injured 150.

Interactive: Paris shooting

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 11:20 AM GMT

Paris shooting: World newspaper front pages on Charlie Hebdo attack, in pics;
The terrorist attack in Paris as reported around the world

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 9 words


The terrorist attack in Paris as reported around the world

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 10:41 AM GMT

Paris shooting: #JeSuisCharlie hashtag vigils spread around the world;
From Amsterdam to Tokyo, thousands attend "Je Suis Charlie" vigils across the
world to mourn those killed in a terror attack on Charlie Hebdo's offices in
Paris, France

BYLINE: By Keely Lockhart and AP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 223 words


Messages of condolence, outrage and defiance over the Paris terrorist attack on
a newspaper office spread quickly around the world Wednesday with thousands of
people taking to the streets to protest the killings and using the slogan "Je
Suis Charlie" on social media.

Many who poured into Place de la Republique in eastern Paris near the site of
Wednesday's noontime attack waved papers, pencils and pens. Journalists led the
march but most in the crowd weren't from the media world, expressing solidarity
and support of freedom of speech.

Similar gatherings, including some silent vigils, took place at London's
Trafalgar Square, in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, in Madrid,
Brussels, Nice and elsewhere.

"No matter what a journalist or magazine has to say, even if it is not what the
majority of people think, they still have the right to say it without feeling in
danger, which is the case today," said Alice Blanc, a London student who is
originally from Paris and was among those in the London crowd, estimated in the
hundreds.

Online, the declaration "Je Suis Charlie," or "I Am Charlie," replaced profile
pictures on Facebook while Twitter users showed themselves with the slogan on
signs with words of support for the 12 victims who were killed at Charlie Hebdo,
a weekly newspaper that had caricatured the Prophet Muhammad.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 10:40 AM GMT

French police search flat in Reims for Charlie Hebdo terror attack suspect;
Heavily armed French special forces search an apartment in Reims for suspects
connected with the Charlie Hebdo terror attack in Paris

BYLINE: By Leon Siciliano video source APTN

LENGTH: 178 words


One man sought in the deadly shooting at a French satirical paper has turned
himself in, and police hunted Thursday for two heavily armed men with possible
links to al-Qaida.

French brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi, in their early 30s, should be
considered armed and dangerous, according to a police bulletin released early
Thursday.

Mourad Hamyd, 18, surrendered at a police station in Charleville-Mezieres, a
small town in France's eastern Champagne region, said Paris prosecutor's
spokeswoman Agnes Thibault-Lecuivre.

She did not offer details on Hamyd's relationship with the men.

Heavily armed police moved into the nearby city of Reims, searching for the
suspects without success, Thibault-Lecuivre said.

Special police forces were seen searching a flat in Reims possibly linked to the
suspects, but it was not immediately clear who lived there.

France raised its terror alert system to the maximum - Attack Alert - and
bolstered security with more than 800 extra soldiers drafted in to guard media
offices, places of worship, transport and other sensitive areas.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 8, 2015 Thursday 10:33 AM GMT

Video claims to show Charlie Hebdo shooting suspect Cherif Kouachi in 2005;
A video from 2005 appears to show Cherif Kouachi, one of two brothers being
hunted by police in France for the deaths of 12 people in the Charlie Hebdo
terror attacks on Wednesday

BYLINE: By Telegraph video and PA, video source Le Figaro

LENGTH: 278 words


French newspaper Le Figaro has republished a video online which it claims shows
Cherif Kouachi, the 32-year-old being hunted along with his older brother Said
for the attack on satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo.

The clip, which Le Figaro have posted on their website, is from Pièces à
Conviction - an investigative journalism TV program that airs on France 3.

It shows what the newspaper claims to be Cherif, although this has yet to be
independently verified.

Cherif, who was born on November 28, 1982 in Paris not far from where the attack
took place, had already been jailed in 2008 for his role in sending fighters to
Iraq.

Sometimes going by the name Abu Issen, he was part of the "Buttes-Chaumont
network" that helped send would-be jihadists to join Al Qaeda in Iraq during the
US-led invasion in the mid-2000s.

He was arrested just before he was due to fly to Syria and on to Iraq - and was
later sentenced to three years in prison, including an 18-month suspended
sentence.

Two years later, his name was cited in a police report related to the attempted
prison escape of Smain Ait Ali Belkacem, a former member of the Algerian Armed
Islamic Group (GIA) that carried out a spate of bombings and a plane hijacking
in France in the 1990s.

Belkacem was sentenced to life imprisonment in 2002 for a bombing at the Musee
D'Orsay rail station in Paris in October 1995 that left 30 injured.

Cherif Kouachi was also suspected of being close to another key French jihadist,
Djamel Beghal, who spent 10 years in prison for planning attacks.

They were suspected of participating in militant training programmes together,
although charges in this case were dropped against Kouachi.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 9:16 AM GMT

Charlie Hebdo attack: Europe has a terrorism problem, not a Muslim problem;
France and Islamism have a history of violence. The attack on the Charlie Hebdo
magazine reflects a barbaric clash between two realities that exist in painful
tension.

BYLINE: By Tim Stanley

LENGTH: 1122 words


One of the policemen killed in the Paris attack                     , Ahmed
Merabet, is believed to have been a Muslim. That's important. Although Europe
obviously has a terrorist problem, it sincerely does not have a Muslim problem.
That's evident in the fact that Islamist terrorism is a strange and frightening
thing to the vast, vast majority of Muslims - and we shouldn't swallow the
claims of terrorists to represent anything other than themselves. The IRA never
spoke for Irish Catholics in toto.

But the existence of the IRA did highlight certain social and economic tensions
within British society that informed its world-view. And while France does not
have a problem with Islam in the sense that Islamists would like us to believe -
Islam does not stand on the brink of overthrowing the secular order and
establishing a caliphate - France obviously does have social problems related to
its Muslim population that bleed into the fundamentalist movement. Indeed, the
assault on the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo is just the latest chapter in a
long history of violence between Muslim revolutionaries and the French state.

The ability of a society to forget its recent past is like the amnesia that
follows an accident - the body's way of protecting itself against trauma. Yet in
the 1950s and 1960s, as France tried to cling on to its African colonial
possessions, political violence was far more common than today. Muslim Algerian
nationalists (their race and religion regarded as interchangeable by the French)
bombed the mainland, assassinated officials and killed colonialists en masse.
The reaction of the state was shocking. In 1961, 12,000 Algerian immigrants were
arrested in Paris and held in a football stadium. Many were tortured; more than
a hundred disappeared. For days, bodies were found floating in the Seine.

After the French left Algeria in 1962, there was a period of relative peace. But
Paris erupted again in the early 1980s as former French colonies in the Middle
East fought bloody turf wars in the streets of the capital. From March to
September 1982 alone, 17 people were killed and 160 injured in nearly 20
attacks. While Italy and Germany spent the postwar years tackling Marxist
terror, and Britain tried to pacify nationalism, France's enemies were often
Islamic ghosts of its colonial past.

Describing the contemporary conditions of religious relations in France is more
complex and more open to the charge of finding excuses (after the attack on
Charlie Hebdo, we're no longer talking in the abstract). For what it's worth,
the list of problems includes racism, poverty, radicalisation, military action
in Mali, the banning of the Burka. None of these excuses the growth of terrorism
or even necessarily explains it - how does one really explain something
sociopathic that operates beyond the bounds of reason? But it is inescapable
that aspects of French culture seem to find themselves in timeless conflict with
aspects of Islamic culture, creating a tension occasionally exploited by
fanatics.

Charlie Hebdo's attitude towards religion tells us something about these
tensions. The magazine comes from a Left-wing, republican, anti-clerical
tradition that sees all faith as born of the same bigoted distrust of human
freedom. Hence, its cartoons aren't just anti-Islamic but also anti-Catholic and
anti-Jewish (it has been accused of anti-Semitism). Faith, in the mind of
Charlie Hebdo, needs to be put back in its box. The goal of those Mohammed
cartoons was to mock Islam until it had become "as banal as Catholicism" -
something no longer given special protection by political correctness and
something so reduced by satire that it could no longer engender extremism. Who
would take seriously an ideology undone by slipping on a banana skin?

But the sublime can never be amusing to those who worship it. People who inhabit
two different realities do not see the same image in the same way. One sees a
joke, the other a blasphemy. And while the Western secularist regards someone
who actually believes in something as a fool, the Islamist regards doubt as an
incitement to violence. In a way, the decline of faith in European society and
the rapid secularisation of its culture makes this conflict more - not less -
likely to arise.

The West confronts bloodshed with indignant incomprehension, which is both
understandable and historically consistent. France remained stuck in Algeria for
so long because a) it could not comprehend a future without a slab of North
Africa as part of its territory and b) it could not believe that it wasn't
loved. It couldn't understand when its offer of improvement was rejected by
people who defined happiness or liberty in very different ways. Back then, the
French reacted to savagery with torture - torture not unlike that used by the
CIA on recent detainees. Out of fear, France became everything it claimed to be
fighting. It lost its sense of civility. It forgot what it stood for.

That mustn't happen again. There will be those who insist that Europe now has to
make a choice between modernity and faith. The choice is false. It is perfectly
possible to inhabit both worlds at once and even if they were so strongly
opposed, to compel anyone to choose between them is dictatorial. And, if forced
to take a stand, greater numbers will side with the sublime than would have done
if left alone. How would the choice be presented or enforced, anyway? The
anti-Islamic demonstrations in Germany indicate that there is a growing
constituency for saying "something must be done" about Islam in Europe. Yet the
responding question has to be, "what?" The people of France have come out into
the streets to state their support for free speech: good. The security forces
will doubtless beef up their work: good. But a dramatic shift to
authoritarianism would, again, be a contrary response to an assault upon freedom
- as well as a contradiction of Western values that, like the war in Algeria,
would only perpetuate the struggle. Let us please proceed with dialogue between
communities. The world has never needed more conflict.

More civility is a very Western thing to aim for. We don't talk often enough
about those two inheritances that genuinely make the West the best place to live
in the world. The first is the Enlightenment principles of rational inquiry and
dissent. The second is the Christian principle of turning the other cheek. Both
traditions inform the other, both have given rise to a culture that elevates the
individual.

In a sense, we've won the war of ideas already simply because we're happy to
have it without resorting to bullets or discrimination. That moral high ground
must not be lost.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 4:16 AM GMT

Charlie Hebdo attack: France's worst terrorist attack in a generation leaves 12
dead;
Ten journalists and two policemen killed after the attack by three gunmen on the
Charlie Hebdo magazine office in Paris

BYLINE: By Gordon Rayner Henry Samuel and Martin Evans in Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1498 words


Paris Charlie Hebdo attack: live

With ruthless precision, two masked al-Qaeda gunmen calmly fire eight shots at
an unarmed policeman as a terrorist attack of "indescribable barbarity" nears
its end.

Moments after this image was taken, the policeman, lying mortally wounded on the
pavement of a Parisian boulevard, held up a hand in a plea for mercy. A second
later, one terrorist jogged past and shot him in the head without breaking
stride, just one more act of brutality in an attack that left 12 dead.

Earlier two gunmen armed with automatic rifles stormed the office of the
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, a target for Islamist terrorists since it
printed cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed in 2006 and 2011, and killed
cartoonists and satirists whose names were called out as they were shot dead in
turn.

"We have avenged the Prophet!" the killers shouted in accentless French as they
left the building, having identified themselves as acting on behalf of "al-Qaeda
in Yemen". France's worst terrorist attack in a generation was also its most
meticulously planned; the killers had not only memorised the names of those they
wanted to kill, they also planned their getaway well enough to evade the police.

A nationwide manhunt is now underway after a raid in Reims proved fruitless.

The killers were named in the French media as Said and Chérif Kouachi, brothers
aged 34 and 32, and Hamid Mourad, 18. Chérif was reportedly part of an Iraqi
jihadist network dismantled in the nearby 19th arrondissement. He was jailed for
three years on terror charges in May 2008.

Two addresses in Paris were raided and an building in Reims was being searched
by forensic officers. Reims is reported to be the home town of one of the men.

"An act of indescribable barbarity has been committed today in Paris," said
President François Hollande, promising that the killers "will be hunted for as
long as it takes to catch them and bring them to justice". David Cameron was
among the world leaders who condemned the murders as an attack on free speech.

A doctor who was one of the first medics to enter the magazine's office
described a "war scene". Four survivors remained critical in hospital after
being shot in the face, chest or leg.

The terrorists managed to evade police despite apparently crashing their black
Citroen C3 into a bollard, forcing them to abandon the car, before holding up an
elderly motorist at gunpoint and stealing his grey Renault Clio.

For several years, Europe's intelligence services have feared that Muslim
extremists who have travelled to Syria, Iraq and elsewhere to fight would return
home to plot carnage, and the gunmen's ruthless efficiency left little doubt
that they had received military training.

The Kouachi brothers are Franco-Algerians who came back from Syria last summer.

On Wednesday night thousands of Parisians staged a rally to express their
outrage and their determination to defy the terrorists with the slogan "Je Suis
Charlie" - "I Am Charlie".

Some who gathered in the Place de la Republique brought along copies of the
Mohammed cartoons.

They chanted "innocents" and many were in tears.

In Trafalgar Square, hundreds of people staged a spontaneous show of solidarity
with the French people, holding up pens to signify their support for the dead
journalists.

An Israeli busker, Bar Markovich, played La Marseillaise on his violin as
bystanders formed a circle and threw their pens into the centre

The Prime Minister called a meeting with Jon Day, head of the Joint Intelligence
Committee, to be briefed on any possible threat in Britain, where the terrorist
threat level remains "severe". Earlier, Mr Cameron and Angela Merkel, the German
chancellor, who is visiting London, were given a briefing by MI5 and MI6 in
Downing Street and held a conference call with Mr Hollande.

Mr Cameron said: "We must be very clear about one thing, which is we should
never give up the values that we believe in and defend as part of our democracy
and civilisation and believing in a free press, in freedom of expression, the
right of people to write and say what they believe. These are the things we are
defending and we should be very clear on this day that these values that we have
are not sources of weakness for us - they are sources of strength."

The Metropolitan Police contacted at least one British magazine and told its
staff to keep doors locked and telephone the police at the first sign of
trouble. Wearing hoods and dressed in black, the killers attacked the Charlie
Hebdo office in central Paris at 11.20am local time on Wednesday, when the
editorial team was holding its weekly meeting on the magazine's press day. "Tell
the media this is from al-Qaeda in Yemen," they told one bystander.

Corinne Rey, a cartoonist, was forced at gunpoint to enter the code for the
front door as the gunmen threatened to kill her toddler, whom she had just
picked up from nursery. The gunmen then went to the second-floor editorial room
to begin the attack in an "organised commando" style, according to one police
source.

Top of their hit list was the magazine's production director, Stéphane
Charbonnier, known as Charb, who had a price put on his head by al-Qaeda in
2013. "They knew their target in advance," said a police source. "The attackers
looked for him in the room, shouting 'Where is Charb? Where is Charb?' They
killed him then sprayed everyone else." Mr Charbonnier's police bodyguard,
assigned to him following earlier death threats, was among those killed. He was
named last night as Franck Brinsolaro.

There were suggestions that others were on a hit list. Among the dead were
cartoonists Jean Cabut, who was known by the pen-name Cabu and drew the Mohammed
cartoon in 2006, Bernard "Tignous" Verlhac and Georges Wolinski.

Ms Rey said: "They shot on Wolinski, Cabu. It lasted five minutes. I had hidden
under my desk. They spoke French perfectly - they said they were al-Qaeda."

Armed with Kalashnikov assault rifles, ammunition jackets and, according to one
report, a grenade launcher, the killers were triumphant as they left the office,
shouting: "We have killed Charlie Hebdo! We have avenged the Prophet Mohammed!"

The first policemen on the scene were unprepared; arriving on bicycles, they
were forced to take cover until backup arrived.

Around the corner, the gunmen exchanged fire with armed police, shouting "Allahu
Akbar!" or "God is Great" as they did so. They then shot dead their final
victim, the policeman. Having rolled on to his side to protect himself, the
officer turned to look over his shoulder at the approaching gunmen, before
holding up his right hand. As the gunman who fired the final shot left the
scene, he held up his index finger, a common gesture among Islamist terrorists.
The murder was filmed from an upstairs window and posted online.

The officer was named locally as Ahmed Merabet. Mobile phone footage apparently
showed him asking his assailants, "You want to kill me?" to which one of the
gunmen replied, "Yes, chief" before shooting him.

Initial reports suggested that among the dead were Bernard Maris, 68, a former
French central bank official and columnist, Michel Renaud, a guest of Mr Cabut
who was visiting the editorial conference, cartoonist Philippe Honoré and
subeditor Moustapha Ourad, Frédéric Boisseau, 42, a caretaker and father of two,
and Elsa Cayat, a psychoanalyst and columnist.

Gérald Kierzec, 40, a casualty doctor who was among the first on the scene, told
The Telegraph: "There was a first body lying in the lobby. Then I took the
stairs which were covered in blood. When I got to the second floor, there were
bodies lying one on top of another. It was carnage, with war wounds. There was
blood everywhere. I have never seen anything like it in my career."

Mr Hollande called for Wednesday to be a national day of mourning, telling the
French people: "Our best weapon is our unity. We must be ourselves, conscious
that our best weapon is our unity, the unity of all our fellow citizens in the
face of this trial. Nothing can divide us, nothing must oppose us, nothing must
separate us."

A Syrian man claiming to represent Isil welcomed the attack. "The lions of Islam
have avenged our Prophet. They are lions," he said.

In its most recent edition, Charlie Hebdo carried a cartoon stating that there
had been no attacks in France so far, with a terrorist saying: "Wait - we have
until the end of January to present our new year wishes." Less than an hour
before the attack, its Twitter account posted a cartoon parodying the Isil
leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. It was captioned: "Best wishes. You too,
al-Baghdadi." He replies: "Especially to your health."

Mr Cabut once said his only regret was "not being ferocious enough" in his
caricatures. Mr Charbonnier, in 2012, borrowed a phrase from Che Guevara that
his friends would say makes a fitting epitaph: "I would rather die standing than
live on my knees."

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                      January 8, 2015 Thursday 8:25 AM GMT

Paris shootings: Solidarity in France and around the world after terror attack
at Charlie Hebdo offices;
Tens of thousands of people have gathered in cities around Europe in solidarity
with the victims

BYLINE: By Steffan Rhys

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 148 words


Charlie Hebdo shootings: Moving pictures as France and the world pays tribute

People in Paris, other parts of France and around the world have gathered to
show their solidarity with the victims of a terror attack on a French satirical
magazine.

France is mourning the 12 people killed when Charlie Hebdo was targeted by
gunmen shouting Islamist slogans.

Police in France have made seven arrests as they hunt for two named suspects
over the deadly attack in Paris on staff at a satirical magazine.

RELATED: Live updates after more shootings on streets of French capital

A minute's silence will be observed at midday across the country and the bells
of Notre Dame in Paris will sound.

The two main suspects are brothers named Cherif and Said Kouachi. A third
suspect has surrendered.

In cities around Europe, huge crowds of people gathered to show solidarity with
the victims and freedom of speech.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Paris terror attack was cowardly and evil - Obama

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 353 words


PRESIDENT Barack Obama says the attack on a Paris newspaper was an attack on
journalists and the free press, calling it "cowardly and evil".

Mr Obama below left, expressed his deepest sympathies for the French after an
attack that killed 12.

Mr Obama says France is one of America's strongest and oldest allies and has
been with the US "every moment" since 9/11.

He said the attack in Paris reinforces solidarity between the two countries.

Mr Obama had earlier offered full US assistance to pursue the terrorists
responsible for the "horrific shooting".

He offered thoughts and prayers for the people of France.

"France, and the great city of Paris where this outrageous attack took place,
offer the world a timeless example that will endure well beyond the hateful
vision of these killers," Mr Obama said.

The Queen, below, sent her "sincere condolences to the families of those who
have been killed" in the attack.

In a brief message to Mr Hollande, the Queen said: "Prince Philip and I send our
sincere condolences to the families of those who have been killed and to those
who have been injured in the attack in Paris this morning.

"We send our thoughts and prayers to all those who have been affected."

Social networks have been deluged with users showing their support for the
Charlie Hebdo magazine.

By early evening the hashtag #CharlieHebdo had been used more than 1.4 million
times on Twitter, and it quickly became the top trending hashtag as people
around the world shared their horror and solidarity with those affected. A
second hashtag, #JeSuisCharlie, French for "I am Charlie", was used more than
350,000 times as people rallied behind those killed and injured in the terror
attack. Users have also posted images on social networks showing the phrase in
large letters.

A Twitter campaign pledging support to the victims and the French magazine had
already gained traction within moments of the first #JeSuisCharlie hashtag being
posted.

Many tweeted the famous misquote of French philosopher Voltaire: "I do not agree
with what you have to say, but I'll defend to the death your right to say it."

Solidarity: Page 10

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Wirral Globe

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Merseyside Police pay tribute to officers killed in Paris terror attack

BYLINE: Emma Rigby

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 312 words


POLICE across Merseyside paid tribute today to the officers murdered in the
Paris terror attack.

Officers paused for two minutes "in solidarity and sympathy" at 11.30am, 24
hours after the shootings at satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.

The flag at Merseyside Police's headquarters at Canning Place is flying at half
mast.

The request for the show of respect came from the Association of Chief Police
Officers (ACPO) and the Police Federation.

Deputy Chief Constable Andy Cooke, said: "Tragically 12 people, including two
police officers, lost their lives yesterday following a shooting at the head
offices of French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in Paris.

"A female police officer has also been killed in the French capital and another
person seriously injured in a further attack this morning.

"As a mark of respect the force has held a two minute silence to remember all
those killed, including our three French colleagues and the flag is flying at
half mast."

Several arrests were made overnight in the hunt for two remaining suspects over
the massacre at the newspaper.

Two men being hunted have been spotted in northern France, according to reports.

Local media said two suspects in the Charlie Hebdo attack were seen armed and
getting into a Renault Clio in Aisne, a region to the north-east of the capital.

The sighting was said to have been reported to police by a petrol station
worker.

It comes after police and security forces mounted a nationwide manhunt for
brothers Said Kouachi and Cherif Kouachi.

The operation was launched after masked gunmen stormed the Paris offices of
Charlie Hebdo, killing 12 people in France's worst terrorist atrocity since
1961.

Meanwhile, police are also searching for the perpetrator of a separate shooting
in which a policewoman was killed just outside Paris this morning.

It is unclear whether there is any link between the two incidents.



LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Rachel Utley: France terror attacks were an assault on a divided society

LENGTH: 940  words


AS France mourns the murders of journalists and police officers at the offices
of Charlie Hebdo in Paris, the terrorist attacks are condemned from every
quarter.

Alongside strong reactions of the French President and fellow world leaders,
thousands of people have taken to the streets worldwide to show solidarity.

But as shock gives way to anger, and as a manhunt is under way to find the
perpetrators, questions mount about the reasons for the Charlie Hebdo attack,
its principal targets, what can be done, and whether it can happen again.

On the face of it, this was an attack on a French satirical magazine best known
for its provocative cartoons, its inflammatory journalism and its radical
politics. Charlie  Hebdo has been no stranger to controversy. Its editorial
staff have gone to great lengths to sustain its satirical irreverence, to the
point that its offices were firebombed in 2011, and its editor lived under
police guard. Radical Islam was a regular target of its cartoonists' pens, but
so too were other religions, politicians and political parties of all stripes,
teachers, smokers and many more besides.

This was also an attack on values: on freedom of expression, on freedom of the
press, and on traditions of democracy, as David Cameron and many others were
quick to argue.

But this was also, very squarely, an attack on France. The country has faced
threats  from Islamist terrorism at least since the 1990s, and has been under
explicit threat  since 2005.

From 2006, threats have been linked under the banner of al-Qaida, Moreover,
despite the efforts of the French security services, attacks on mainland France
as well as on French interests abroad have taken place. The gunman Mohamed Merah
killed seven, including children, in 2012; while only days after the murder of
Fusilier Lee Rigby in London in 2013, a French soldier was repeatedly stabbed on
the outskirts of Paris by a radicalised perpetrator. Last month, there was a
spate of attacks on members of the public at Christmas markets in Nantes, Dijon
and Cannes, although motives behind the attacks were unclear.

These threats are exacerbated by developments in French domestic and foreign
policy, whose effects are disproportionately perceived to be felt by Muslims.

At home, the law on secularism in France and the ban on wearing overt religious
symbols have caused particular tensions. And since 2011 it has been illegal to
wear a full-face veil in public places in France, a measure clearly aimed at
those wearing some styles of Islamic dress.

Abroad, France was a contributor to international efforts against al-Qaida in
Afghanistan from 2001, though not to the invasion of Iraq from 2003. France
under  former president Nicolas Sarkozy led in the war in Libya in 2011, and
under François Hollande, the current occupier of the Elysee Palace, carried out
a military intervention in Mali in 2013 to push back Islamic militants
threatening the unity of that fragile state.  Since 2014, France has taken part
in international air strikes against the forces of Islamic State (IS).

The external and domestic consequences of these policies have combined in the
fact that radicalisation in France was a severe problem by last autumn, and
almost 1,000 French citizens had joined or sought to join IS fighters in Iraq
and Syria.

Despite the long-standing terrorist threat to France, though, the attack on
Charlie Hebdo is of a different scale and significance.

In contrast to the Merah crimes in 2012 for instance, and the recent Christmas
market attacks, Wednesday's assault was targeted, discriminate, deliberate,
well-planned and effectively - murderously - implemented. It was calculated to
achieve maximum publicity and worldwide impact.

So what can President Hollande and his government do? In short, not much.
Hollande is stuck between a rock and a hard place. The President, despite his
anger, is politically weak. Halfway through a presidential term which many will
prefer to forget, his poll ratings are dire and to date he has lacked authority
and credibility to give an effective lead.

Domestically, French society is fractured and divided. Traditionally having a
large immigrant population, France's policies of "assimilation" have failed to
integrate different communities. Economic disparities, limited prospects and
deprivation have characterised the suburbs where populations have clustered.
Anti-Semitism, as well as discrimination against Roma and Islamophobia, are all
on the rise. Support for the Front National, under Marine Le Pen, continues to
grow.

Externally, Hollande has sought to establish a strong foreign policy for France
based on military interventions and strong rhetoric, but operations in Mali and
air strikes in Iraq have stoked the problems faced, not reduced them. But
backing down is not an  option: this would be to give in to terrorists, and
Hollande lacks the political capital to reverse his foreign policy without
undermining even more any credibility he might still retain.

And can it happen again? Sadly yes. Wednesday's events and vigils have been
followed yesterday by grenade attacks and gunshots at Muslim places of worship
in various parts of France, and a policewoman has been shot dead in the southern
outskirts of Paris. It is not clear whether these attacks are linked, but they
constitute a collective assault on a fractured society with embattled political
leadership and growing inter-societal tensions and radicalisation.

France is facing severe challenges, in short, whose successful outcomes are
neither imminent nor clear.

o Dr Rachel Utley is a lecturer in international history at the University of
Leeds.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Alliance News

                      January 9, 2015 Friday 10:36 AM GMT

Britain Braces For "Unstoppable" Terrorist Attacks

LENGTH: 296 words


London (Alliance News) - The jobs of 25 armed police officers in the northern
English city of Manchester were on Friday declared safe from cost-cutting
measures as Britain braces for possible terrorist attacks which the chief of the
intelligence agency MI5 chief warned were unstoppable.

A decision was made to retain the posts "taking into account the threats and
risks of policing an area as diverse as Greater Manchester," the police said.

Greater Manchester Police chief Sir Peter Fahy told the BBC: "In the past, it
was just about big plots coming in from the outside. Now we're just as concerned
about individuals in this country being rapidly brainwashed on the internet and
suddenly deciding to perform some chaotic attack."

MI5 chief Andrew Parker said that police and the spy agency he leads had
"stopped three UK terrorist plots" in recent months.

Parker warned that "we can't hope to stop everything" but stressed that Britain
had "faced down" terrorism for more than 40 years.

"The going is getting tougher but there are good reasons for confidence in our
enduring ability to respond," he said.

MI5's latest estimate is that 600 Britons had left for Syria to join Islamic
State militants.

Parliamentarian Sir Malcolm Rifkind, who chairs the Intelligence and Security
Committee, urged legislation to bolster the powers of the intelligence services
to intercept communications "particularly international communications that
might be relevant."

Chancellor George Osborne said extra money had gone into monitoring "these
self-starting terrorists who get their ideas off the internet and then want to
perpetrate horrendous crimes."

He added: "We'll put the resources in, whatever the security services need they
will get because they do a heroic job on our behalf."

Copyright dpa

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                      Copyright 2015 Alliance News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 9, 2015 Friday

German authorities worried about terrorist attacks with handguns

LENGTH: 429 words


Excerpt from report by right-of-centre German newspaper Die Welt on 9 January

[Report by Florian Flade and Thorsten Jungholt: "Jihadists From the Gun Club"]

[Passage omitted] Jihadists with a gun license, this version of Islamist
terrorism was not considered important by the German security authorities for a
long time - until March 2011. At that time Kosovar Arid U. shot two US soldiers
and injured another two at Frankfurt Airport. It was the so far only successful
attack by a jihadist in Germany. And it was committed with a handgun. Before
that, police and intelligence services mainly had to deal with homemade bombs.
[passage omitted]

Meanwhile, the authorities are taking the risk of Islamist attacks with guns
very seriously. "Acquiring a weapon is often easier than building a functioning
bomb. Islamists, too, know this by now," a BKA [Federal Office of Criminal
Investigations] official told Die Welt. That is why police and Federal Office
for the Protection of the Constitution [BfV] watch very closely who is trying to
get handguns or guns, be it via contacts to organized crime, be it legally via
gun clubs, for instance. [passage omitted]

A particular challenge for the security authorities is the steadily rising
number of extremists considered able to carry out such an attack. According to
the latest figures, 260 of the about 7,000 Salafists in Germany are considered
"violence-prone dangerous persons." The jihad travellers must be added to this
group. By now about 550 extremist have left the country and gone to Syria and
Iraq. Many of them have joined the ISIL terrorist organization there and have
been trained in handling guns and explosives. A total of 180 jihadists are said
to have returned, 30 of them with combat experience. "These are people who
cannot be ruled out or are even likely to plan an attack," German Interior
Minister Thomas de Maiziere (Christian Democratic Union) said recently.

In watching these extremists the security authorities are working at the limit
of their capacities, they lack personnel. Up to 25 policemen doing shift work
are necessary for 24 hours of observation. At the BfV currently up to 60 agents
per week are deployed. Therefore, even in the big laender a maximum of 10
extremists can be watched around the clock. And even if police are watching all
suspects, this does not mean anything. French Interior Minister Bernard
Cazeneuve said that the two suspects of the Paris attack had been watched, but
there had been no indications of an imminent terror attack.

Source: Die Welt, Berlin, in German 9 Jan 15; p 5

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 9, 2015 Friday

Swiss Muslims condemn terrorist attack on French magazine

LENGTH: 346 words


Text of report by Swiss newspaper Neue Zuercher Zeitung website on 9 January

[Report by "foed": "Barbaric and Terrorist"]

Muslim organizations in Switzerland have clearly distanced themselves from the
terrorist attack [in Paris] in the name of Islam. It is an "abysmal decay of
humanity," the Muslim Committee in Basel says in a communique. "We oppose the
abuse of our religion and distance ourselves unambiguously from its criminals."
The Islamic Central Council of Switzerland (IZRS) writes in a press release that
the attack shows in an alarming manner how vulnerable the free societies are
despite all conceivable security measures. What happened in Paris on Wednesday
[7 January] is "barbaric, inhuman, and a pure terrorist act," imam Mustafa
Memeti from Bern says.

Even though such acts of terrorism are fanning the bad mood against everything
foreign, as a Muslim community one must not remain passive but must openly
approach civil society and the media, imam Memeti demands. At the same time, he
warns against "lumping all Muslims together." It is not easy to counter this
general suspicion, Islam scholar Rifaat Lenzin says. It is difficult to dissuade
the people from their prejudices in any case. "The people see their prejudices
additionally confirmed by tragedies like the one in Paris."

In Switzerland, too, such a disaster would be possible: provocative things,
often in the form of xenophobic statements, keep turning up. However, in
general, Rifaat Lenzin advises against Muhammad caricatures like the ones
published by Charlie Hebdo. Such caricatures do not benefit anybody but are
simply a provocation. "The caricatures had only one purpose from the very start:
provocation and polemic. They were primitive in terms of content and little
convincing," says Quaasim Illi of the IZRS. In contrast, Mustafa Memeti urges
the Muslims in Switzerland to accept the modern, Western values. "A caricature
of Prophet Muhammad should not really be a problem in western Europe," the imam
from Bern says.

Source: Neue Zuercher Zeitung website, Zurich, in German 9 Jan 15 p 9

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                             January 9, 2015 Friday

Paris rallies against extremism in wake of terrorist attack

BYLINE: Shanna McGoldrick

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 509 words


As Paris comes to terms with its worst terrorist attrocity since 1961, former
Bolton News writer Shanna McGoldrick reports from a city in mourning.

PARISIANS are rallying to present a united front against religious extremism
after a fatal terrorist attack on the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo.

Crowds gathered at the city's Place de la République last night as the sun set
on the second day following the atrocity that made headlines all over the world.

In an event that was a hybrid of political protest and a vigil for the 12 people
killed in the massacre, thousands flocked to voice their sadness and defend the
values of the republic.

It is a strange thing to witness up another country's grief up close, but the
armed attack on January 7 has become the world's tragedy.

The mood was sombre and reflective, but defiantly patriotic, with crowds singing
the national anthem and chanting "Vive la France" ("Long live France") and "On
n'a pas peur" ("We are not afraid") alongside what has become the global slogan
of support "Nous sommes tous Charlie" ("We are all Charlie").

The chanting was interrupted by moments of silence in which the crowd fell
still, holding pens aloft in a symbol of freedom of speech, while only the wind
could be heard whistling around the enormous city square.

For such a potentially volatile situation, the French have so far responded with
admirable dignity. There is a general sense here that it is imperative to fight
back by presenting a united front.

"We are proud of the unity of France's reaction," said Loic Floch, a 32-year-old
graphic designer. "It's funny, because Charlie Hebdo was an anarchist paper."

But despite the bravado, a palpable sadness remained in the air. Mini shrines
made up of candles, flowers, drawings and notes could be found nestled among the
hordes of people gathered in the square.

"We're all in shock," said student Simon Guichard, 17, who, as an ex-intern at
Charlie Hebdo who worked with some of those killed, had a very personal reason
for turning up to the vigil.

"The news hit me very hard," he said.

"But the reaction here in Paris has been good - it's the best image we can send
to the world."

As France wakes to a new day, the mood is still fragile.

But as visual producer Hannah Eyriad Murray, aged 27, puts it: "It's good that
everyone is united together.

"It has rekindled solidarity.

"Above all, we can't let racism win."

The three terrorists behind the bloody spate of terror attacks in France have
been killed after police stormed both scenes.

Charlie Hebdo killer brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi were shot after reportedly
emerging from their bolt hole firing at police.

Minutes later armed officers stormed the Jewish supermarket in Paris where Amedy
Coulibaly had been locked in a bloody stand-off.

He had threatened to kill hostages if police acted against the Kouachis.

Ambulances streamed away from both scenes after the gunfire and explosions which
brought the sieges to an end.

Hostages from the supermarket could be seen being led to safety. The Kouachis'
hostage was also freed.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Burton Mail

                             January 9, 2015 Friday

'Unite against terror' plea after Paris attack

BYLINE: Rob Smyth

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 268  words


'THIS moment will help unite us all against terrorism' were the words of a South
Derbyshire-based French national after 12 people were murdered in a violent
attack that sent shockwaves across the world.

Camille Thouvenin, who lives in Netherseal, has urged people across the area to
'come together' in support of the people who were killed in Paris on Wednesday
during an attack on   the satirical magazine, Charlie Hebdo.

Thousands of people across Burton and South Derbyshire fell silent yesterday at
11am in memory of those who lost their lives.

The 24-year-old, who is originally from south-east France, told the Mail: "The
events shocked the entire French nation.

"We cannot believe what has happened but this moment will help unite us all
against terrorism.

"We all need to stand up for our principles and show that we will not back down
in the face of terrorists.

"I urge people to come together and mourn these losses.

"It was a  sad day for our country but we need to show that we remain strong."

Miss Thouvenin helped organise a vigil that was set to take place in the centre
of Birmingham last night.

More than 1,000 people were scheduled to attend.

Officers from Staffordshire and Derbyshire Police also  observed a minute's
silence after it was revealed that two of the people killed were police
officers.

Journalists at the Mail also downed tools at 11am to honour the journalists who
lost their lives.

Two  key  suspects in the attack were still at large when the Mail went to
press.

The pair are reported to have robbed a petrol station in northern France
yesterday.

A nationwide manhunt is now under way.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A NATION MOURNS . . . people from across Burton and South Derbyshire
joined the world to honour the people who lost their lives in a terrorist
attack. Inset: the scene outside the Charlie Hebdo offices on Wednesday morning.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             January 9, 2015 Friday

17 officials punished over deadly terror attacks in Xinjiang

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 132 words


URUMQI - Seventeen officials in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous
Region were punished for dereliction of duty after a series of terrorist attacks
in the region in September 2014.

The disciplined officials deemed negligent included Liu Fulin, Communist Party
of China (CPC) chief of Luntai County, and his deputy and other county and
township officials, according to ts.cn, the region's official website.

Most were given serious warnings and the CPC chief and government head of
Terakbazar township were sacked.

Forty rioters died in a series of planned bomb attacks in Luntai County on Sept
21, 2014. Six civilians were killed and dozens injured in the terror attacks.

Xinjiang is in the midst of an intensive crackdown on terrorism after a string
of terrorist attacks in the region.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             January 9, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

United against terrorism;
Students gather after horror attack in France

BYLINE: Lucy Lynch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 361 words


STUDENTS, journalists and French people living in Coventry have held events in
honour of those killed and injured by suspected terrorists at French magazine
Charlie Hebro.

Students who belong to Warwick University's French Society gathered on the
university campus, in Gibbet Hill Road, Coventry, yesterday afternoon to
remember those killed and support the principle of free speech.

More than 400 students had a moment of silence and carried posters saying Je
Suis Charlie.

Louise De Nanteuil, aged 19, a business and German student who helps run the
French Society, said: "We were happy because everyone was silent from the
beginning, we did not have to tell people to be silent, they knew. As a French
student, I felt supported by the people here.

"I think it might have an impact, the extremists might be afraid with the
incredible amount of demonstrations."

Ouedourd Chopinaud, 19, a member of the French Society studying management,
said: "This is a show of unity against terrorism. As French students we are very
glad that a lot of Britvery glad that a lot of British newspapers have been very
supportive and published the cartoons from the magazine which the French
newspapers didn't have the courage to do."

French expat Bob Ndongala, who lives in Raglan Street, Hillfields, Coventry,
also organised a gathering at student bar Quids Inn in Gosford Street, Coventry
city centre on Wednesday evening.

About 50 people, mainly French, held a minute's silence before discussing the
attacks.

Staff at the BBC Coventry and Warwickshire newsroom in Priory Place, Coventry
city centre, joined journalists around the world and held a minute's silence
yesterday morning. Journalists at the Canal Basin offices of the Coventry
Telegraph did the same.

Warwick University's Professor Sean Hand, an expert on France, said: "In the
immediate term there is a sense of unity in France. In the longer term there is
a continuing debate about the defence of freedom of expression and the
responsibilities that go with it.

"There is a long tradition of satire in France and artists of this kind are
regarded as public intellectuals who have a right to protest. It is a
complicated reaction."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Students ¦at Warwick University and (inset) Quids Inn in Coventry

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CVT


                   Copyright 2015 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             January 9, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Killers go to ground in forest larger than Paris;
Paris terrorist attack Residents warned to lock their doors as police tighten
net on the fugitives THE MANHUNT

BYLINE: Harriet Alexander; Paris Martin; Rory Mulholland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 1256 words


POLICE appeared to be closing in last night on the French brothers responsible
for Wednesday's terrorist attack, as several hundred heavily armed riot officers
and special forces began circling a large forest in the east of the country.

A helicopter was flying over the Forêt de Retz, an ancient woodland that covers
an area greater than Paris.

A convoy of police had pulled up at a large farmhouse outside the village of
Longpont, near Reims, and were seen preparing to scour the area. Local residents
were warned to stay indoors. Last night's operation appeared to be the beginning
of the end of the manhunt, which has seen 88,000 police deployed to find the
culprits behind the worst terrorist attack in France in 50 years.

The lights of the Eiffel Tower were turned off last night, in memory of the
victims, and candles continued to blaze at a series of spontaneous shrines
across the French capital, as the country struggled to come to terms with what
some commentators described as "France's September 11".

The fugitives, Saïd Kouachi, 34, and his 32-year-old brother Chérif, were wanted
for the murder of 12 people at the Paris offices of Charlie Hebdo, the satirical
magazine known for its provocative cartoons.

They fled by car and were last seen on Wednesday night in Pantin, a suburb in
the north-east of Paris, where they abandoned their getaway vehicle and hijacked
another.

The brothers were identified thanks to an identity card left in their getaway
car, and their names were widely reported in the media, alongside that of Hamyd
Mourad, Saïd's 18-year-old brother-inlaw. Jihadist flags and petrol bombs were
said to have been found in the car. Last night it was becoming apparent that
Chérif had extensive contacts with known jihadists, and had been in prison on
terrorism charges.

Among those in his circle were members of the notorious Buttes-Chaumont network,
which was based in Paris's 19th arrondissement and saw dozens of young men
recruited in the early 2000s to fight in Iraq.

One of the network's masterminds, Salim Benghalem, has been named by the US
State Department as among its 10 most wanted terrorists, and is described as
currently acting as an "executioner" for Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.

Chérif had been living for several years in Gennevilliers, a suburb to the
northwest of Paris, and on Wednesday evening police raided his flat, with
forensic detectives combing the site.

Dozens of officers then raided Mourad's family home in Charleville-MéziÈres,
close to the Belgian border, in the early hours of yesterday - around the time
that the teenager handed himself in at the town's main police station,
protesting his innocence. He said that he was at school at the time of the
attacks.

Police and forensic officers spent several hours examining the flat, on the top
floor of a 13-storey tower block in La Ronde Couture, a mainly immigrant
neighbourhood of the north-eastern town that has a reputation for drug dealing
and vandalism.

No arrests were made, but Mourad last night remained in custody for questioning,
the public prosecutor's office said.

At the time of Mourad's arrival at the police station, police were breaking down
the door of Saïd's home in Reims, the cathedral city at the centre of France's
champagne vineyards.

The elder of the two terrorist suspects, Saïd lived with his wife and two small
children in a compact two-bedroom apartment on the first floor of a six-storey
block of flats above a row of shops in the run-down Croix Rouge district of the
city. He moved into the area around two years ago having relocated from Paris.

Nezha Said, 37, who lives on the same floor, said: "I had no reason to suspect
them at all.

"I would see them in a few other places on the estate and they didn't seem to
know that many other people."

Another female neighbour said that he wore traditional Muslim dress, his wife
wore the hijab, and they lived quietly.

Kadir Sahroli, 76, another resident of the block, said she saw Saïd most
mornings, and he was always polite and well mannered.

Their flat remained boarded up after police smashed the door down during their
raid.

Four people were arrested in Reims, out of nine in total.

Several hours after the Reims raid, and after Mourad handed himself in, the two
brothers staged an armed robbery at a petrol station in Villers-Cotterêts, 50
miles north-east of Paris, reportedly armed with Kalashnikovs and a
rocketpropelled grenade.

Once again they fled. A woman called Maxime, 46, in the village of
Crepy-en-Valois, near the petrol station, described how dozens of police
officers descended on the town.

She said: "Apparently the police had found the two suspects' car abandoned in
the neighbourhood. They had apparently escaped on foot. They were also later
seen at a farm in the area."

Back in Paris, a minute's silence was held yesterday in all schools around
France in memory of the victims. In one mainly Muslim school, the pupils held up
a sign saying "Not in my name". Railway stations, businesses and main squares
across the country also fell silent.

President François Hollande announced that a bipartisan "republican march" would
be held on Sunday, to celebrate national unity in the face of terrorism. But
significantly the far-Right Front National would not be allowed to participate -
a condition set by the ruling Socialists, who said the party was too divisive.

"National unity is vital at such a time because the plans of the terrorists go
beyond violence and seek to sow fear," said Bernard Cazeneuve, the interior
minister.

"We need to be calm and show that we are not afraid and that we will remain
united in this trial."

As night was falling, the 300 inhabitants of Longpont - the tiny village on the
edge of the forest - were asking whether the hunt was coming to an end. Benoit
Verdun, the manager of the Abbaye hotel and restaurant, said that he received a
message from the brother of the mayor, telling him to shut his restaurant and
batten down the hatches.

"The forest around here is enormous, so if the brothers have gone in there, it
will be quite a hunt," he said.

And he said he hoped the killers would soon be brought to justice. "You know,"
he said. "'Je suis Charlie'."

Additional reporting by Henry Samuel and Patrick Sawer in Paris and David Chazan
in Charleville-MéziÈres

FOREST SEARCH

Several hundred heavily armed riot police and special forces circle the Foret de
Retz, near Longpont, where they believe the two murderers are hiding. A
helicopter flies over the forest, an ancient woodland covering an area greater
than Paris

CLOSING IN ON KILLERS

Saïd Kouachi, 34, right top, and his brother Chérif, 32, were thought to be the
two men seen dumping a car and heading into a forest near the village of
Longpont. The pair, with known links to Islamist terrorists, are wanted for 12
murders

ARMED ROBBERY

Two men, believed to be Saïd Kouachi and his brother Chérif, stage an armed
robbery at a petrol station in Villers-Cotterêts, 50 miles north-east of Paris,
reportedly armed with Kalashnikovs and a rocket-propelled grenade. They flee in
a hijacked Renault Clio before dozens of armed police officers descend on the
station

Lonqpont/Courcy  Two armed men have been reportedly spotted in the

woods east of Villers-Cotterets

Villers-Cotterets

Charlie Hebdo suspects steal food and petrol at gunpoint from service station

Charleville-Mezieres

Charlie Hebdo suspect Hamyd Mourad hands himself in on Wednesday night

'The forest around here is enormous so if the brothers have gone in there, it
will be quite a hunt'

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HEATHCLIFF O'MALLEY; THIBAULT CAMUS; FRANCOIS NASCIMBENI; MICHEL
SPINGLER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             January 9, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Paris network that links gunmen to Isil;
Kouachi brothers accused of carrying out magazine massacre had history of
association with terrorists and recruiters in 19th arrondissement French
terrorist attacks SUSPECTS' BACKGROUND

BYLINE: Henry Samuel; Patrick Sawer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 974 words


THE two suspected Charlie Hebdo gunmen were trained and indoctrinated by a
network of French Islamists with links to Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
(Isil).

Chérif Kouachi, 32, who French police are pursuing, along with his brother Saïd,
34, after the murder of 12 people at the offices of Charlie Hebdo, also has
links to one of America's most wanted foreign terrorists and both were on the US
terrorist "no fly" list, according to reports in the United States.

One US official said Saïd spent a "few months" training with al-Qaeda in Yemen
in 2011, learning an array of skills including marksmanship.

Chérif, who liked to be known as "Abou Issen", belonged to a group of budding
Islamists in the early 2000s considered "pioneers" in foreign jihad, and known
as the "Buttes-Chaumont" network, after the park in the 19th arrondissement of
Paris where they would meet. Raised in care in Rennes after his French Algerian
parents died when he was young, he returned to Paris with his brother in his
teens, found work delivering pizzas, and lived in the 19th arrondissement. While
there, he became close friends with Thamer Bouchnak, a Tunisian-Frenchman who
was turning increasingly towards militant Islam. The pair were united by their
distaste for the war in Iraq. The photographs of American troops torturing
captives at Abu Ghraib prison are said to have particularly incensed them.

The two men were ripe pickings for Farid Benyettou, a known recruiter of
jihadists for Iraq, operating in the 19th arrondissement.

Chérif and Bouchnak were both arrested in January 2005 as they prepared to fly
to Damascus, and on to fight in Iraq. During his time in Fleury-Mérogis prison
awaiting trial, Chérif met his future mentor, Djamel Beghal, who also goes by
the name of Abou Hamza.

Beghal was serving a 10-year sentence for plotting to blow up the US embassy in
Paris in 2001. It transpires he also had links to London's Finsbury Park mosque,
a once-notorious breeding ground for Islamist radicals.

Chérif's trial began in March 2008, alongside other members of the
Buttes-Chaumont" network, and while he did not deny that they intended to fight
in Iraq, he said he had subsequently become disillusioned. He received a
three-year prison sentence, with 18 months suspended, for terrorist activities,
but was released based on time already served.

Chérif would later meet an even more notorious figure: Salim Benghalem, a
Frenchman of Algerian descent who is among America's most wanted international
terrorists.

Benghalem met and befriended Chérif's friend, Bouchnak, when the pair shared a
cell in 2008 in Fresnes prison following Benghalem's conviction for attempted
murder. After his release, Benghalem extended his influence to the other members
of the Buttes-Chaumont network, according to intelligence sources cited by Le
Monde.

In particular, he was part of a group of Islamists in a jailbreak plot to free
Smaïn Ait Ali Belkacem, who had been sentenced in November 2002 to life
imprisonment for his involvement in the bombing of a suburban French rail
station in 1995 in which 30 people were injured. The name of Chérif's brother
Saïd cropped up on the sidelines of the 1995 investigation but charges against
both brothers were dropped due to lack of evidence.

There was little in his early life to suggest Benghalem would turn into a
hardened terrorist. After an unremarkable upbringing near Paris, Benghalem was
accused of murder and attempted murder as part of a fight between rival gangs,
for which he would spend some eight years in prison from 2002. In 2012, leaving
behind a wife and two young children, he travelled to Syria, where he told
relations by phone that he had joined Isil. Benghalem is thought to have
contacted his family last in August, from Aleppo. In October the US State
Department singled him out as one of 10 wanted "foreign terrorist fighters",
describing him as "a Syria-based French extremist and Isil member" as well as an
executioner.

Another dangerous individual linked to Chérif is Boubaker al-Hakim, known as
Abou Mouqatel. Hakim is a French Islamist of Tunisian origin, born in 1983, who
grew up in the 19th arrondissement and became a key figure in the
Buttes-Chaumont network. He is suspected of being deeply involved in the
recruitment and logistical organisation of French jihadists travelling to fight
in Iraq.

He first went to Iraq in 2002 and experts believe he recruited militants to
fight in Fallujah, the Iraqi city that became an al-Qaeda stronghold in 2004. In
2008 both Hakim and Chérif were arrested and convicted in Paris for their role
in the network. Hakim was sentenced to seven years in jail for running a way
station in Damascus for young French Muslims en route to fight US forces in
Iraq. Mr Filiu said: "Hakim, and no doubt [Chérif] Kouachi, rejoined al-Qaeda's
Iraqi networks after they were released from prison and accompanied them in
their transformation into Daesh [the Arabic name for Isil].

"The combat experience they acquired was useful in the cold-blooded
assassinations they have carried out since."

Hakim's 2008 arrest and imprisonment was thought to have broken up the
Buttes-Chaumont network. But in 2013 he appeared in Tunisia, where he murdered
two of the country's Left-wing opposition politicians.

Hakim claimed responsibility for the murders in a video on behalf of Isil
released last month and filmed in Isil territory, declaring: "We will return and
kill several of you. You won't live in peace until Tunisia applies Islamic law."

Mr Filiu said that Hakim "represents the link between the Kouachi brothers and
[Isil]", adding: "It is impossible that an operation on the scale of the one
that led to the massacre at Charlie Hebdo was not sponsored by Daesh."

'The photographs of US troops torturing captives at Abu Ghraib are said to have
particularly incensed them'

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Network of Islamists: Djamel Beghal (above centre) was a 'lieutenant'
of Abu Hamza, the radical preacher at Finsbury Park mosque (far left). Farid
Benyettou (second left) recruited Chérif Kouachi (below) in Paris's 19th
arrondissement and Djamel Beghal (left) acted as his mentor in prison

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                             January 9, 2015 Friday

Muslim leaders in south condemn French terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 417 words


MUSLIM leaders in the south have issued a statement today condemming shootings
in France.

Following this week's dramatic events in France, a statement from Al Mahdi
Wessex Jamaat Community said the regions Muslims were "terribly shocked and
dismayed" to learn of the barbarous attack on the Charlie Hebdo magazine offices
in Paris and the subsequent killings and hostage taking.

The statement read: "We are indeed immensely hurt by such inhumane and senseless
murders. Let it be known that such brutality and cold blooded murder is
barbaric, abominable and is definitely contradicting the pristine teachings of
religion of Islam.

"One of the fundamental values of Islam is peace and the Islamic faith is a
peaceful religion.

"It is terribly shocking to learn that the criminals claim to be 'avenging the
Prophet'.

"If it turns out that those who committed these atrocities were acting because
they were avenging insults against the Prophet, we want to say these are
individuals who have nothing to do with Islam as guided by teachings of the
Noble Qur'an and the beloved Prophet.

"These people are criminals, they are not representative of our faith. Nothing
would offend the Prophet and millions of Muslims worldwide more than the taking
of innocent lives in the name of Islam.

"This senseless killing totally contradicts the message of the Noble Prophet who
is a mercy to the universe.

"Our thoughts, prayers and solidarity go to the families of the victims and the
people of France.

"We are a community of Muslims who are constantly seeking to build bridges with
those of other faiths and those of no faith.

"We understand why people will feel angry about these murders, and urge them to
use that passion to work together to better understand those of all faiths, and
those of no faith.

"To do otherwise would be to let the terrorists win.

"We must all stand together to oppose this despicable scenario with love and
unity to establish peace and harmony.

"Let us continue to work towards unity, mutual respect and peaceful co-existence
in the community and defy the terrorists whose only aim is to divide us.

The signatories to the statement are:

· Mufti Liakoth Ali , Imam of Portsmouth Muslim Academy, Portsmouth

· Sheikh Muhammad Muhiuddin, Imam of Jamia Mosque, Portsmouth

· Abdul Jalil, Chairman, Jamia Mosque, Portsmouth · Mohammed Shamas Ahmed,
Chairman, Central Mosque, Portsmouth

· Ali Ibrahimi, Chairman, Portsmouth Afghan Community

· Sheikh Fazle Abbas Datoo, Imam of Al Mahdi Centre, Wessex Jamaat Community.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Derby Telegraph

                             January 9, 2015 Friday

Terror attacks misrepresent faith of Muslims in our city

BYLINE: BY ALASDAIR KAY

SECTION: NEWS:PEOPLE; Pg. 4-5

LENGTH: 440  words


I HAVE lived seven years of my life in France, having served as a paratrooper in
the French Foreign Legion and as a pastor of a French Church. I go there most
years on holiday and have travelled the length of the country on a bicycle -  a
wonderful experience.

I love France and I love the French. The result of those seven years has meant
that its founding principles of Liberte, Egalite and Fratenite -  freedom,
equality, and brotherhood - have become ideologically sacred to me. So the news
of Wednesday's attacks shock me to the core of my being.

I noticed that the Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby, has called the attack
"brutal, demonic and cowardly". It has since come to light that the alleged
perpetrators were only 18 years old.

As an Anglican minister, I live and work in Normanton, where large parts of the
population in the parish where I serve are of the Muslim faith. This attack has
deeply misrepresented the faith that my neighbours hold.

Therefore, it is vital that in Derby we do not embrace Islamaphobia and that we
continue to work hard to keep the excellent community relations that we have in
the city.

So what should be my Christian response to this barbaric and - yes, I will join
with my archbishop in calling it demonic - attack on the founding principles of
any Western democracy?

Firstly, the criminals who perpetrated this crime are those who are wicked and
cowardly, not my neighbours. Muslims are my fellow human beings, friends and
citizens of the city in which I live.

Secondly, we need to stand united as citizens to defend the principles of
liberty, equality and brotherhood.

A defence of the liberty that allows you to practise your faith, hold an
opinion, disagree and to stand for your principles, even if they are distasteful
to me. I constantly hear people blaspheme the name of Jesus. It is offensive to
me. But, I uphold people's right to hold that opinion.

Equality, that whoever you are, whatever your gender, faith, sexuality,
political opinion, nationality or ideology, we recognise your right to live as
an equal citizen under the law of this land.

Brotherhood, that we stand with you in your rights, we do not allow people to
scapegoat you and we will work with you for a fair and equitable society -
working with you to make our society a good place to live and work.

The editorial team of Charlie Hebdo gave their lives for these principles. For
me, these are things worth dying for.

Church deacon Alasdair Kay is chief executive of Derby City Mission, which runs
projects such as the Street Pastors, food banks, debt welfare and advice clinics
and the Derby Churches Night Shelter.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Church deacon and Derby street pastor Alasdair Kay
A man lights a candle at a vigil in Trafalgar Square, London, following the
terror attack on the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, in Paris, in which 12
people died.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 7:08 PM GMT

David Cameron to join other European leaders at 'Unity Rally' in Paris after
terror attack

BYLINE: Alison Little

LENGTH: 275 words


DAVID Cameron will join other European leaders at Sunday's 'Unity Rally' in
Paris called to 'celebrate the values' of the satirical magazine targeted in
this week's terror attacks, it was confrimed tonight.

GETTY

David Cameron announced he had accepted the invitation on Twitter

French President Francois Hollande is expected to line up with his political
adversary and predecessor Nicolas Sarkozy to lead a cross-party march of tens of
thousands of French people in the shocked capital.

Confirming that he would attend alongside other foreign counterparts, Mr Cameron
posted on Twitter: "I've accepted President Hollande's invitation to join the
Unity Rally in Paris this Sunday - celebrating the values behind #CharlieHebdo."

The event was planned after apparent Islamist extremists shot dead 12 people in
Wednesday's attack on the offices of satire magazine Charlie Hebdo.

The affair culminated in today's dramatic police shoot-outs as armed officers
freed hostages taken in two locations by the assailants and other linked
individuals.

Sunday's rally has sparked controversy in France after the country's far-right
Front National party of Marine Le Pen, known for its anti-immigration views and
foucs on Islam, was not on the initial invitation list for the march.

Related articles Three men arrested in Belgian hostage siege after police
lockdown 'The day we changed forever': Australia's newspapers record deadly
Sydney siege Islamic State releases eighth John Cantlie propaganda video
BREAKING: At least four hostages at Kosher store in Paris dead after armed
police assault The link between the Paris siege suspects: Three were part of
same terror cell

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 4:07 PM GMT

Paris terror attacks: UK security services need MORE snooping powers, says
leading Tory

BYLINE: Sarah Ann Harris

LENGTH: 1144 words


BRITISH security services should be handed more snooping powers in the wake of
the ongoing Paris terror attacks, a leading Tory claimed today.

GETTY

It has been claimed that more snooping powers are needed for intelligence
services

Sir Malcolm Rifkind, chair of the House of Commons' Intelligence and Security
Committee , said it has become "increasingly difficult" to access vital evidence
in combating terrorism.

And the former Defence Secretary said this week's shooting of 12 victims at the
offices of French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo by Islamic extremists "added
weight" to the case for greater powers to intercept communications.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "What is emerging in Paris is that the
two individuals responsible for the terrible massacre at Charlie Hebdo may have
been linked to al-Qaeda in the Yemen.

"They must have been communicating with people in the Yemen over the last few
days, the last few weeks.

"The hugely important objective is to enable intelligence agencies in Britain
and France and other democracies to be able to get hold of these communications
to try and prevent incidents of this kind.

"I think it gives added weight to the point that in a realistic world, if you
are dealing with international terrorism, how do international terrorists
communicate with each other?

"In the modern world they communicate through the internet, through email,
through social messaging and all the technical ways that we are aware of.

"So our intelligence agencies, acting under law, acting on good reasonable
grounds, with authority, have to have the power to intercept particularly
international communications that might be relevant."

Sir Malcolm's comments come in the wake of a warning from the head of MI5 that
al-Qaeda terrorists in Syria were trying to direct atrocities in Britain and
planning "mass casualty attacks" against the West.

PA

Andrew Parker said Al Qaeda terrorists in Syria were trying to direct atrocities
here

Andrew Parker, Director-General of the British Security Service, said the threat
of terror attacks was growing at the same time as MI5's ability to track
terrorists was being reduced.

He said: "If we are to have the best chance of preventing such harm, we need the
capability to shine a light into the activities of the worst individuals who
pose the gravest threats.

"But technological changes risk closing off areas where we need to operate.

"The dark places from where those who wish us harm can plot and plan are
increasing."

Emergency measures were rushed through Parliament in July last year to stop
European judges from curbing spies' snooping powers.

The move, which was supported by Labour MPs, followed a European Court of
Justice ruling that threatened to dilute the powers of national security forces
to monitor electronic communications.

Ministers were worried communications companies could start deleting records
including potential evidence of criminal activity.

The Data Retention and Investigation Powers Bill does not allow security chiefs
to eavesdrop on phone calls or read emails.

Instead, it preserves their powers to record the time, dates, phone numbers and
email addresses of communications.

REUTERS

Citizens surround flowers placed near the offices of weekly satirical newspaper
Charlie Hebdo

The measures will only remain in force until 2016 to allow time for a national
debate on balancing the needs of privacy with security.

As well as increasing M15 snooping powers, others have suggested that doubling
resources is necessary - at the risk of facing another Lee Rigby-style attack.

Anthony Glees, director of the Centre for Security and Intelligence Studies at
the University of Buckingham, said he did not believe a Charlie Hebdo-style
attack would happen in the UK but warned that killings such as the murder of
Fusilier Rigby in a south-east London street could be repeated.

"Could somebody in the UK get an AK47 assault rifle, could they get the
ammunition and could they plan a military style operation without MI5 getting
wind of it? I very much doubt it," he said.

"Could we have another Drummer Lee Rigby attack of butchery? Yes we could, but
we can do a lot to prevent that too, by doubling the resources available to MI5.

"In all these cases that we know about, we're dealing with people who have come
across the radar of the security community, but the security community has
decided that given the resources it has, they are desirable targets but not
essential targets."

"If we had more people working in this field we could have more people looked at
as essential targets, and I think that is the call that now has to be made."

Mr Glees said the British security services have successfully monitored
electronic communications over the past 10 years to combat terrorism.

"I think the past decade has shown a very good record of success. I do not think
that the sort of things that are happening in France could happen in the UK," he
added.

"Not because there aren't the same kind of Islamists, but because we in the UK
have taken a different attitude.

PA

Said Kouachi and Cherif Kouachi, the two prime suspects in the Paris terror
attack

"The British people are perfectly prepared to give our security community access
to electronically-stored data in order to keep us safe. There's no doubt about
that.

"That's not the case in France."

However Chancellor George Osborne insisted that the security services had the
resources they needed because protecting the country was a "national priority".

He told BBC Breakfast: "We have put a huge amount of planning and effort, from
the police, from the security services, from the Government, into anticipating
what might happen, stopping some of these attacks.

"Of course we have been successful in doing that over the last year.

"Within the last few weeks we have put extra money - over £100 million - into
specifically monitoring people who are going to conflicts in Syria and Iraq,
these self-starting terrorists who get their ideas off the internet and then
want to perpetrate horrendous crimes.

"So we are putting a huge effort in, as the director general of MI5 has said
over the last 24 hours, that is the threat we face and we face the threat from a
more complex plot.

"So we have got to be vigilant, we have got to have the resources there.

"My commitment is very clear: this is the national priority, we will put the
resources in, whatever the security services need they will get because they do
a heroic job on our behalf."

Related articles 'Je Suis Charlie': World's media reacts to horrific Charlie
Hebdo murders Charlie Hebdo attack 'linked to UK mosque' Shooting of Paris
police officer LINKED to Charlie Hebdo massacre Charlie Hebdo staff thought
attack was 'joke' before being gunned down Four members of same family 'among
nine people in custody' over Charlie Hebdo attack BREAKING: THIRD Paris gun
attack launched at kosher shop

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      January 9, 2015 Friday 12:52 PM GMT

'We can't stop terror attacks' MI5 chief's chilling warning about jihadi threat
to Britain

BYLINE: John Ingham

LENGTH: 885 words


BRITAIN faces a growing threat from terrorists at home and abroad and "cannot
hope to stop" every plot, the boss of MI5 has warned.

AP GETTY PA REUTERS

The head of M15 warns that Britain is also at risk of acts of terrorism

Andrew Parker said Al Qaeda terrorists in Syria were trying to direct atrocities
here and planning "mass casualty attacks" against the West.

His chilling warning came as French police continued the hunt for brothers
Cherif and Said Kouachi, chief suspects in the Paris magazine massacre in which
12 people were shot dead.

Mr Parker, 52, warned that the terrorist threat was growing at the same time as
MI5's ability to track terrorists was being reduced.

Extremists are finding more secretive ways of communicating online and avoiding
being tracked by the security services.

**CLICK HERE TO SEE MORE TERROR ATTACKS OVER THE YEARS**

Mr Parker said: "If we are to have the best chance of preventing such harm, we
need the capability to shine a light into the activities of the worst
individuals who pose the gravest threats.

But technological changes risk closing off areas where we need to operate.

The dark places from where those who wish us harm can plot and plan are
increasing."

A parliamentary report last year into the murder of soldier Lee Rigby by
Islamist fanatics on the streets of London in 2013 criticised a US internet firm
for failing to alert the authorities to the "graphic" fantasies of one of his
killers.

Britain's terror alert remains at the second highest level of "severe", which
means an attack is highly likely.

PH

Andrew Parker MI5 chief issues warning for Brits

Mr Parker's speech to defence experts in London was planned long before the
Paris shootings. He said:

"It is a terrible reminder of the intentions of those who wish us harm. As you
would expect, we are offering our French colleagues our full support as they
respond."

In the UK four serious plots, ranging from lone wolf attacks to major terrorist
operations, are known to have been foiled in the past year.

Mr Parker, who directed Britain's response to the July 2005 London bombings,
said the number of British extremists who have gone to Syria and Iraq to fight
as jihadis has risen to 600 with half of them already back home.

About 40 are known to have been killed in action, mainly fighting for Islamic
State, which Mr Parker described as "visceral" in its brutality and indulging in
"the very worst imaginable forms of treatment of other human beings".

Related articles Charlie Hebdo suspects are pot-smoking 'loser' brothers who
were WELL-KNOWN to police Surviving Charlie Hebdo employees vow that magazine
WILL be published next week Charlie Hebdo massacre: Manhunt enters third day

Describing the intelligence task as "challenging", he said IS was "trying to
direct terrorist attacks in the UK and elsewhere from Syria, using violent
extremists here as their instruments.

They are seeking through propaganda to provoke individuals in the UK to carry
out attacks here."

Mr Parker's speech to defence experts in London was planned long before the
Paris shootings. He said:

"It is a terrible reminder of the intentions of those who wish us harm. As you
would expect, we are offering our French colleagues our full support as they
respond."

In the UK four serious plots, ranging from lone wolf attacks to major terrorist
operations, are known to have been foiled in the past year.

Mr Parker, who directed Britain's response to the July 2005 London bombings,
said the number of British extremists who have gone to Syria and Iraq to fight
as jihadis has risen to 600 with half of them already back home.

About 40 are known to have been killed in action, mainly fighting for Islamic
State, which Mr Parker described as "visceral" in its brutality and indulging in
"the very worst imaginable forms of treatment of other human beings".

brightcove.createExperiences;

Describing the intelligence task as "challenging", he said IS was "trying to
direct terrorist attacks in the UK and elsewhere from Syria, using violent
extremists here as their instruments.

They are seeking through propaganda to provoke individuals in the UK to carry
out attacks here."

He stressed that the security services needed help from the public in foiling
such attacks. He added:

"We face more complex and ambitious plots that follow the now sadly
well-established approach of Al Qaeda and its imitators - attempts to cause
large-scale loss of life, often by attacking transport systems or iconic
targets.

We know, for example, that a group of hardcore Al Qaeda terrorists in Syria is
planning mass casualty attacks against the West."

Plots thwarted in the past year include attacks planned by individuals fired up
by propaganda as well as organised terrorist operations.

The plots are thought to have involved gun and bomb attacks. Terrorist-related
arrests are up 35 per cent compared with four years ago and more than 140 people
have been convicted.

Mr Parker said: "We cannot be complacent. Although we and our partners try our
utmost we know that we cannot hope to stop everything."

In a clear message to his political paymasters, he added: "My sharpest concern
as director general of MI5 is the growing gap between the increasingly
challenging threat and the decreasing availability of capabilities to address
it."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             January 9, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WE CAN'T STOP TERROR ATTACKS;
MI5 chief's chilling warning about jihadi threat to Britain 'More mass casualty
attacks are planned'

BYLINE: John Ingham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 620 words


BRITAIN faces a growing threat from terrorists at home and abroad and "cannot
hope to stop" every plot, the boss of MI5 warned last night.

Andrew Parker said Al Qaeda terrorists in Syria were trying to direct atrocities
here and planning "mass casualty attacks" against the West.

His chilling warning came as French police continued the hunt for brothers
Cherif and Said Kouachi, chief suspects in the Paris magazine massacre in which
12 people were shot dead. Mr Parker, 52, warned that the terrorist threat was
growing at the same time as MI5's ability to track terrorists was being reduced.
Extremists are finding more secretive ways of communicating online and avoiding
being tracked by the security services.

Mr Parker said: "If we are to have the best chance of preventing such harm, we
need the capability to shine a light into the activities of the worst
individuals who pose the gravest threats. But technological changes risk closing
off areas where we need to operate. The dark places from where those who wish us
harm can plot and plan are increasing."

A parliamentary report last year into the murder of soldier Lee Rigby by
Islamist fanatics on the streets of London in 2013 criticised a US internet firm
for failing to alert the authorities to the "graphic" fantasies of one of his
killers. Britain's terror alert remains at the second highest level of "severe",
which means an attack is highly likely.

Mr Parker's speech to defence experts in London was planned long before the
Paris shootings.

He said: "It is a terrible reminder of the intentions of those who wish us harm.
As you would expect, we are offering our French colleagues our full support as
they respond."

In the UK four serious plots, ranging from lone wolf attacks to major terrorist
operations, are known to have been foiled in the past year.

Mr Parker, who directed Britain's response to the July 2005 London bombings,
said the number of British extremists who have gone to Syria and Iraq to fight
as jihadis has risen to 600 with half of them already back home. About 40 are
known to have been killed in action, mainly fighting for Islamic State, which Mr
Parker described as "visceral" in its brutality and indulging in "the very worst
imaginable forms of treatment of other human beings".

Describing the intelligence task as "challenging", he said IS was "trying to
direct terrorist attacks in the UK and elsewhere from Syria, using violent
extremists here as their instruments.

They are seeking through propaganda to provoke individuals in the UK to carry
out attacks here."

He stressed that the security services needed help from the public in foiling
such attacks.

He added: "We face more complex and ambitious plots that follow the now sadly
well-established approach of Al Qaeda and its imitators - attempts to cause
large-scale loss of life, often by attacking transport systems or iconic
targets. We know, for example, that a group of hardcore Al Qaeda terrorists in
Syria is planning mass casualty attacks against the West."

Plots thwarted in the past year include attacks planned by individuals fired up
by propaganda as well as organised terrorist operations. The plots are thought
to have involved gun and bomb attacks.

Terrorist-related arrests are up 35 per cent compared with four years ago and
more than 140 people have been convicted. Mr Parker said: "We cannot be
complacent. Although we and our partners try our utmost we know that we cannot
hope to stop everything."

In a clear message to his political paymasters, he added: "My sharpest concern
as director general of MI5 is the growing gap between the increasingly
challenging threat and the decreasing availability of capabilities to address
it."

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: On the run... brothers Cherif, left, and Said KouachiAndrew Parker, the
head of MI5

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                             January 9, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I watched my nation gripped by terror over deadly attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 442 words


As France marked a day of mourning - only the fifth in the past 50 years - over
the 12 victims of a killing spree in Paris, French journalist MAILYS MOREL
watches the aftermath from the UK AS a French citizen and aspiring journalist, I
feel betrayed by the attack on the offices of Charlie Hebdo in Paris which left
12 people dead - Charb, Cabu, Wolinski and other talented journalists and
artistic geniuses of the satirical newspaper. Their only crime was to use their
freedom of speech to highlight the world's problems.

Through their artwork, they revealed the absurdity of Islam's corruption by
murderers.

They used humour to focus on the serious and critical issues facing society. Now
my heart aches when I say that after the fright and emotion, we now have to
think of the future of our values. Yet Islam is not a religion which incites to
kill, assassinate and terrorise.

Try to find a line in the Koran which promotes that; you will be wasting your
time. By killing those people screaming "Allah Akbar", they attempted to
denigrate the religion. Don't let them do it.

Don't choose to think under the influence of the emotion.

Islam is not a religion of terrorists, despite what those two men and their
friends want to make you believe. They were enrolled, brainwashed by a monster
way bigger than them, a monster which is not called Islam at all.

Their souls were stolen and are already dead.

You can't do anything to help them anymore. We now have to fight beside the
millions of Muslims who live in peace; those are the real Muslims. Those men are
nothing.

In addition to those incredible losses, freedom was assassinated on that day -
as the newspaper Libération put in its cover.

We also have to fight for journalists, artists and writers to carry on doing
their jobs without pressure or police protection. In his last and sadly
prescient caricature, Charb was wondering why there weren't any terrorist
attacks in France those last few days and drew a terrorist responding: "Wait, we
have until the end of the month to wish you a happy new year."

May it be remembered as a symbol of freedom.

My family and friends are, like me, avid readers of Charlie Hebdo mainly because
of the bold and fearless writing and artwork it showcases. I hope it will
continue to denounce, just as it has been, stupidity and atrocities through
humour and cheekiness. Satire may hurt but it does not leave dead bodies in its
wake as these two men did.

Freedom of speech is one of the most crucial and precious rights in our society;
we must do everything to protect and cherish it.

As Voltaire said: "I disagree with you; but I will fight to death for your right
to say it."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ambulances gather in the street outside the French satirical newspaper
office

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLE


                      Copyright 2015 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 3:20 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo: Arsene Wenger, Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and Romain Grosjean lead
tributes to Paris terrorist attack victims;
French sport will mark the shocking attack this weekend with a minute's silence
before games this weekend

BYLINE: Mark Bryans

SECTION: NEWS & COMMENT

LENGTH: 456 words


Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger hopes France remains united after the "dreadful
and terrible" terrorist attack at the offices of satirical newspaper Charlie
Hebdo in Paris this week.

12 people were killed in Wednesday's attack on the offices of the weekly
publication, which had been threatened before for its caricatures of the Prophet
Muhammed.

Wenger expressed his dismay at the events and hopes that what happened will not
polarise the French population along religious or ethnic lines.

"It is a dreadful and terrible situation," the Frenchman said.

"It is shocking. I think the whole country is shocked. France is a country with
a freedom of speech, it has a big history and to think in a country like France
you can die today because of your ideas and the way you want to speak is
absolutely shocking.

In pictures: Charlie Hebdo suspects siege

"I hope at the moment that the whole country is united and I hope it will not
create a divided country, the consequences of that would be terrible."

Many other stars from the world of sport showed their support on Thursday with
the likes of tennis stars Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and Marion Bartoli posting messages
on social network sites, as did Formula One driver Romain Grosjean.

.embed-container {position: relative; padding-bottom: 120%; height: 0; overflow:
hidden;}.embed-container iframe,.embed-container object,.embed-container embed {
position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; }

The French Football Federation, as well as the governing body for French rugby
union, announced that all fixtures played under their auspices would observe a
minute's silence beforehand.

pic.twitter.com/quFV7Z6OAm; Jo-Wilfried Tsonga (@tsonga7) January 8, 2015

The French Basketball Federation, the French Cyclo-cross Championships at
Pontchateau and the Ski-cross World Cup event at Val Thorens will also all hold
a minute's silence to honour the victims of the attack labelled by President
Francois Hollande as: "an act of exceptional barbarism".

The Ligue 1 match between Lyon and Toulouse on Sunday has been moved back by
three hours to avoid a clash with national tributes to the victims of this
week's Paris shootings.

A major rally in Paris is planned in support of those who died in Wednesday's
attack.

The Ligue de Football Professionnel announced in a statement on its website: "In
agreement with Lyon, Toulouse and the broadcaster beIN SPORTS, the match Lyon -
Toulouse, initially scheduled for Sunday at 2pm (1pm GMT), has been moved to the
same day at 5pm (4pm GMT).

"This move has been made in order to respect the national tribute which will
take place on Sunday afternoon during the march of the republic after the attack
on Charlie Hebdo."

PA

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 9, 2015 Friday 11:42 AM GMT

Stephen Fry calls on the world's media to defiantly publish Charlie Hebdo
cartoons;
British actor issued this response to the terror attacks in Paris

BYLINE: Jenn Selby

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 271 words


Stephen Fry urged publishers around the world to unite in a show of defiance
against those who committed the terror attack on satirical French magazine
Charlie Hebdo that left 10 journalists dead.

Among those who perished in the shooting at the offices in Paris were four of
France's best loved political cartoonists: Jeaabu, Stephane "Charb" Charbonnier,
Bernard "Tignous" Verlhac and Bernard Maris.

The British actor tweeted the following in response:

Publish a Charlie Hebdo cartoon: show them the pen will still flourish when
their guns have rusted http://t.co/5X0X9PwUqU#JeSuisCharlieStephen Fry
(@stephenfry) January 8, 2015

His call echoed that of author Salman Rushdie, who branded the attack by
suspected Islamic militants a sign of the "deadly mutation in the heart of
Islam".

"I stand with Charlie Hebdo, as we all must, to defend the art of satire, which
has always been a force for liberty and against tyranny, dishonesty and
stupidity," he wrote.

Private Eye editor Ian Hislop said that "very little seems funny" in the wake of
the tragedy.

In pictures: Reaction to Charlie Hebdo attack

Barack Obama, David Cameron and Angela Merkel have all vowed to stand up for
freedom of expression.

Charlie Hebdo was firebombed in 2011 after they published a spoof issue "guest
edited" by the Prophet Mohamed.

The magazine has been threatened on numerous occasions for publishing the
religious cartoon caricatures.

Read More: Paris Shootings - The Latest On Charlie Hebdo AttackBanksy's Striking
Response To Charlie Hebdo Isn't By BanksyDonald Trump Blames Hebdo Attacks On
France's Lack Of Guns

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 9, 2015 Friday 11:27 AM GMT

Charlie Hebdo: Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger 'shocked' by Paris terrorist attack
;
Wenger took time before his usual pre-match press conference to speak out on the
attacks in Paris that have shocked the world

BYLINE: Jack de Menezes

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 308 words


Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has expressed his shock at the Charlie Hebdo
attack in Paris that has rocked the world.

LIVE: Paris shooting manhunt latest

Heavily armed police forces continue to hunt down the men responsible for the 12
deaths in the French capital on Wednesday when armed gunmen attacked the
magazine's office, in what has become the biggest counter-terrorism operation in
recent French history.

Despite living in the United Kingdom for over 18 years, Wenger still has his
homeland close to his heart, and he took a moment of his pre-match press
conference ahead of this weekend's Premier League clash with Stoke to give his
opinion on the shocking scenes across the channel.

"It's [a] dreadful and terrible situation," said Wenger. "Shocking. The whole
country is shocked.

In pictures: Reaction to Charlie Hebdo attack

"To think, in a country like France, you can die for your ideas or how you want
to speak, is absolutely shocking."

Read more:Watch live operation in France as police track terror suspectsArmed
patrols at London's Eurostar stationCharlie Hebdo magazine to be made 'honorary
citizen of Paris'

While he was obviously disgusted with this week's events in Paris, he did
acknowledge how the country has been "united" in condemnation against the
attacks, which have continued into a major situation as police attempt to search
for the two brothers believed to be responsible for the original attack.

"France is a country with a big history of free speech. At the moment, the whole
country is united."

The latest reports indicated that there is one unconfirmed hostage in the print
works building were the suspects are currently located. Police have established
a "ring of steel" around the building and the French Interior Minister has
confirmed that a major operation is underway to capture the two suspects.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 9:47 AM GMT

Anjem Choudary on the Charlie Hebdo attacks: 'Muslims do not believe in the
concept of freedom of expression';
In the aftermath of yesterday's terrorist attack, the radical cleric wrote an
open letter saying that Muslims don't believe in free speech

BYLINE: Helen Nianias

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 342 words


After yesterday's Paris shooting, in which four journalists on satirical
publication Charlie Hebdo were killed, Muslim activist Anjem Choudary has
written an open letter entitled 'People Know The Consequences'.

In the letter, which was published by USA Today, Choudary says: "Contrary to
popular misconception, Islam does not mean peace but rather means submission to
the commands of Allah alone. Therefore, Muslims do not believe in the concept of
freedom of expression, as their speech and actions are determined by divine
revelation and not based on people's desires."

Warning: Viewers may find this video distressing

He adds: "Although Muslims may not agree about the idea of freedom of
expression, even non-Muslims who espouse it say it comes with responsibilities.
In an increasingly unstable and insecure world, the potential consequences of
insulting the Messenger Muhammad are known to Muslims and non-Muslims alike."

In pictures: Reaction to Charlie Hebdo attack

The post asks: "Why did France allow the tabloid to provoke Muslims?" and
Choudary adds: "Western governments are content to sacrifice liberties and
freedoms when being complicit to torture and rendition - or when restricting the
freedom of movement of Muslims, under the guise of protecting national
security."

He Tweeted:

If freedom of expression can be sacrificed for criminalising incitement &
hatred, Why not for insulting the Prophet of Allah? #ParisShooting - Anjem
Choudary (@anjemchoudary) January 7, 2015Freedom of expression does not extend
to insulting the Prophets of Allah, whatever your views on the events in Paris
today! #ParisShooting - Anjem Choudary (@anjemchoudary) January 7, 2015

This is not the first time Choudary has stoked controversy. Last year, it was
revealed that he held a network dubbed the "gateway to terror". He also lauded
the terrorists responsible for 9/11 as "magnificent martyrs".

Read more: War on Isis: British radical Abu Rumaysah taunts policeAnjem Choudary
claims he would live under Isis ruleRadical preacher Anjem Choudary among eight
bailed

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                             January 9, 2015 Friday

PARIS TERROR ATTACKS: Three terrorist gunmen killed by police

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 261 words


THE three terrorists behind the bloody spate of terror attacks in France have
been killed after police stormed both scenes.

Charlie Hebdo killer brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi were shot after reportedly
emerging from their bolt hole firing at police.

Minutes later armed officers stormed the Jewish supermarket in Paris where Amedy
Coulibaly had been locked in a bloody stand off.

He had threatened to kill hostages if police acted against the Kouachis.

MORE TOP STORIES:

Ambulances streamed away from both scenes after the gunfire and explosions which
brought the sieges to an end.

Hostages from the supermarket could be seen being led to safety. The Kouachis'
hostage was also freed.

The operations finally brought to an end the worst spate of terror attacks in
France since 1961, a murderous spree that has rocked the country.

On another day of extraordinary developments, Coulibaly, an associate of the
Charlie Hebdo killers, launched a fresh strike at the Hyper Cacher kosher store
in Porte de Vincennes in the east of the capital.

That came hours after the Kouachi brothers were cornered in Dammartin-en-Goele,
a town around 25 miles (40km) north of Paris.

Two police officers were injured in the gun battle with the brothers.

Coulibaly, 32, was also behind the murder of a policewoman in the Paris suburb
of Montrouge yesterday morning.

He is believed to have been connected to the Kouachis, who started the killing
spree on Wednesday morning when they attacked the offices of satirical magazine
Charlie Hebdo.

All three men were known to the French security authorities.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 1:47 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo murderers were on U.S. no-fly list: Brothers had been flagged as
terrorist risk BEFORE Paris attack

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 872 words



     ·    French police are searching for brothers Cherif, 32, and Said, 34,
          Kouachi
     ·    U.S. officials said both brothers had been placed on their no-fly list


     ·    Witnesses claim the men claimed allegiance to Al Qaeda in Yemen
     ·    The brothers are believed to be behind the brutal Charlie Hebdo murder




Two brothers accused of the Charlie Hebdo massacre in Paris murdering 12 people
had already been flagged as a terrorist threat and placed on a U.S. no-fly list.



Cherif, 32, and Said Kouachi, 34, had been identified by both French and U.S.
intelligence agencies as potential extremists, with the younger brother being
convicted on terrorism charges in 2008.

Heavily armed police SWAT teams have been swarming a region north of Paris as
part of the hunt for the two gunmen.

Scroll down for video

French Prime Minister Manuel Valls confirmed both men were known to security
services prior to the fatal attack.

A senior U.S. official said Thursday the elder Kouachi had traveled to Yemen,
although it was unclear whether he was there to join extremist groups like Al
Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, which is based there.

The younger brother, Cherif, was convicted of terrorism charges in 2008 for his
links to a network sending jihadis to fight American forces in Iraq.

Both were also on the U.S. no-fly list, a senior U.S. counter-terrorism official
said.

French President Francois Hollande called for tolerance after the country's
worst terrorist attack in decades.

He said: 'France has been struck directly in the heart of its capital, in a
place where the spirit of liberty - and thus of resistance - breathed freely.'

French police have arrested nine people who were connected to the brothers while
90 witnesses have also been interviewed.

Interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve confirmed that Cherif Kouachi left his ID
card behind in the getaway car used during the attack.

Security officials confirmed that the brothers were born in Paris to Algerian
parents.

The younger brother, who was a former pizza delivery driver, appeared on a 2005
documentary in French TV on Islamic extremism. He was jailed in 2008 for 18
months after he tried to travel to Iraq to join al-Qaeda.

During the documentary, Cherif Kouachi said he had been radicalised in north
eastern Paris by a hard-line preacher.

He said the cleric told him 'that holy texts prove the benefits of suicide
attacks. It is written in the texts that it's good to die as a martyr.'

The brothers grew up in the multi-ethnic working-class 19th arrondissement of
Paris.

Cherif Kouachi's lawyer said at the time that his client had fallen in with the
wrong crowd.

During the trial, Kouachi was said to have undergone only minimal training for
combat - going jogging in a Paris park to shape up and learning how a
Kalashnikov automatic rifle works by studying a sketch.

He was described at the time as a reluctant holy warrior, relieved to have been
stopped by French counterespionage officials from taking a Syria-bound flight
that was ultimately supposed to lead him to the battlefields of Iraq.

His former lawyer Vincent Ollivier told Le Parisien newspaper that his client
had changed him.

In the documentary, the younger killer is seen as a young man in a black T-shirt
with extremely close-cropped hair and a chunky wristwatch was keener on spending
time with pretty girls than on going to the mosque.

He appears relaxed and smiling as he pals around with friends.

At one point, with his baseball cap worn backward, Kouachi belts out some rap
music and breaks into a joyful dance.

After he was released from prison, he worked in a supermarket's fish section in
the Paris suburbs for six months beginning in 2009. Supervisors said he gave no
cause for concern.

In 2010, police detained him again in a probe of an alleged plot to free an
Islamic militant sentenced to life in prison for bombing a Paris train line in
1995. Kouachi was ultimately released with no charges ever brought.

Much less has become public about the older brother, Said, but Cazeneuve said
the jobless resident of the city of Reims was also known to authorities, despite
having never been prosecuted, because he was 'on the periphery' of the illegal
activities his younger sibling was involved in.

A French security official, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the
sensitivity of the matter, said that American authorities had shared
intelligence with France indicating that Said had travelled to Yemen several
years ago for training.

French authorities were seeking to verify the information, the official said.

In Reims, about 90 miles northeast of Paris, Said frequented a prayer room on
the ground floor of an apartment building, according to the local imam,
Abdul-Hamid al-Khalifa.

Al-Khalifa admitted that Said wore traditional North Africa clothes to prayers
and didn't mix much - if at all - with other worshippers.

'Typically, he'd come late to prayers and leave right when they were done.'

A third suspect identified by French authorities in the attack turned himself in
Wednesday night. Mourad Hamyd, 18, surrendered at a police station after
learning his name had been linked to the case in the news, said Agnes
Thibault-Lecuivre, spokeswoman for the Paris prosecutor.

She did not specify his relationship to the Kouachis.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 7:43 AM GMT

Maverick politician Jacqui Lambie questions why treason charges haven't been
laid against 'that mongrel' Junaid Thorne for his support of Paris terrorist
attacks

BYLINE: SARAH CARTY and DANIEL PIOTROWSKI FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 606 words



     ·    Jacqui Lambie believes self-styled WA sheik Junaid Thorne should be
          charged with treason
     ·    Thorne made comments in support of the Paris terrorist attacks
     ·    Lambie said previous governments have failed to protect us from these
          extremists living in Australia
     ·    She believes the Abbott government needs to step-up and deal with
          these individuals


Outspoken politician Jacqui Lambie has spoken out against self-styled WA sheik
Junaid Thorne for his comments regarding the Paris terrorist attacks, calling
for him to be jailed for treason.

Ms Lambie has branded Thorne, who is in his 20's, as a 'mongrel' for suggesting
that insults to the Prophet Mohammed are 'not allowed' and 'very likely to
stimulate some kind of response'.

In a statement, Ms Lambie blamed previous governments for failing to protect
Australian citizens against these type of extremists living amongst us.

'There are now Australian citizens (like the mongrel in WA) who brazenly,
express public sympathy and support for the actions of the Islamic extremists,'
Ms Lambie said.

Junaid Thorne, who spent 14-years growing up in Saudi Arabia, took to social
media after the Paris killings, claiming that the victims has failed to learn
from the Charlie Hebdo office firebombings in 2011.

'When you provoke an enormous number of people, or degrade the followers of a
religion by insulting something or someone they hold sacred, don't expect to be
left alone,' he said.

According to Lambie, there are more than 20 Australian citizens fighting for
Islamic state and there are at least 100 Islamic state Australian citizen
supporters who are living among us.

'I suspect many more, given the growing public support that Islamic groups now
give for the imposition of the extremist Sharia Law in Australia,' she said.

Ms Lambie called for Thorne and other extremists living in Australia to be tried
for treason before they 'seek to impose their culture on us - or kill us'.

'These savages hate our democratic way of life, which attempts to accommodate
difference of political opinion, thought, freedom of speech and religion, while
trying to respect basic human rights,' she said.

'So the time has come for ordinary Australians to wake up. The time has come for
the Abbott Government to act swiftly and deal decisively with these traitorous
individuals.'

Thorne moved to Saudi Arabia with his brother Shayden and his father, an
Indigenous man of the Noongar clan, when he was nine-years-old.

His father found a job in the country after divorcing Thorne's mother, a
Malaysian Muslim who lives in Perth.

Growing up in the devout family, Thorne claims he could recite the Koran by the
age of six. However, life in Saudi Arabia was not without difficulty.

His brother was imprisoned for allegedly possessing terrorism-related material
on a lap top, according to reports, and remained imprisoned for two-and-a-half
years when he was granted clemency. Junaid was deported to Australia after
protesting his detention in 2012.

After returning to Australia, Thorne began to tour the country, delivering
lectures about Islam in front of the flag of a little known radical group known
as Millatu Ibrahim, which is banned in Germany.

He also delivered talks about how to 'exorcise jinn' - or genies - which he said
are affecting people across the country.

Over the past six months, the self-styled sheikh has become a controversial
figure.

He branded Australian authorities 'the real terrorists' after police swooped on
properties across in Sydney in September.

He has been outspoken in defence of some of his associates and supporters,
including terror suspects Abdul Numan Haider, 18, and Sulayman Khalid, 20.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 1:12 AM GMT

The Finsbury Park connection: How one of Paris attack suspects was mentored by
terrorist linked to notorious London mosque

BYLINE: SAM MARSDEN FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 405 words



     ·    Revelation raises concerns about UK links to terrorist atrocity in
          France
     ·    Cherif Kouachi, 32, met 50-year-old Djamel Beghal while in prison in
          Paris
     ·    Beghal was once accused of being bin Laden's main European recruiter


One of the brothers suspected of carrying out the Charlie Hebdo attack was
mentored by a terrorist linked to London's notorious Finsbury Park mosque.

The revelation will raise concerns about British links to this week's terrorist
atrocity in France.

Cherif Kouachi, 32, met Djamel Beghal, 50, who was once accused of being Osama
bin Laden's main European recruiter, while in prison in Paris.

He maintained his links with the Al Qaeda lynchpin after being released from
jail.

Kouachi, who is on the run after Wednesday's attack on the Paris satirical
magazine, was secretly photographed by French intelligence officers meeting
Beghal while he was under house arrest in Murat in central France in April 2010.

Also present were two other convicted terrorists, jihadi recruiter Ahmed
Laidouni and Algerian Armed Islamic Group member Farid Melouk.

Beghal attended hate cleric Abu Qatada's prayer meetings in London, and is also
said to have been a 'constant presence' at the Finsbury Park mosque in the late
1990s, when it was Abu Hamza's base.

He allegedly recruited the shoe bomber Richard Reid and Zacarias Moussaoui, the
'20th hijacker' in the 9/11 attacks, at the London mosque.

Beghal, who also had links to Leicester, is also said to have met one of Osama
bin Laden's key deputies at the former Al Qaeda leader's base in Afghanistan.

A completely new generation, who have never met these people in London, have
learned their ideology indirectly and are now willing to die in jihad Reda
Hassaine, MI5 informant

The terror leader spent ten years in prison in France for planning attacks. He
was only released in 2010.

Reda Hassaine, who worked as a paid MI5 informant inside the Finsbury Park
mosque in the late 1990s and early 2000s, said Beghal was a well-known figure
there in this period.

He said Beghal had connections to both Abu Qatada and Abu Hamza, and had been
influenced by their teachings.

'Their warped view of the world has filtered down through him to a new
generation,' he told the Daily Telegraph. 'What happened in Paris was the legacy
of Abu Qatada and Abu Hamza.

'A completely new generation, who have never met these people in London, have
learned their ideology indirectly and are now willing to die in jihad.'

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      January 9, 2015 Friday 12:48 PM BST

TIMELINE OF PARIS TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Nina Massey, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 2386 words


Staff at the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo were holding a routine meeting
when masked gunmen burst into their office. Here is a timeline of how the
massacre and its aftermath unfolded.

Wednesday January 7:

10.28am - The Charlie Hebdo Twitter page is updated with a cartoon of Islamic
State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. In it he wishes everyone ``good health''.

10.57am - The AFP news agency reports shots have been fired at the French weekly
magazine, on Boulevard Richard Lenoir.

11.17am - Eyewitness accounts of the attack emerge. Video footage filmed by some
shows the gunmen. In one clip they murder an injured police officer.

11.22am - AFP confirms the first death as a result of the shooting. Three
minutes later it confirms the death toll has risen to 10.

11.31am - President Francois Hollande is en-route to the magazine's offices
shortly, officials say

11.36am - The death toll is increased to 11 and then to 12.

11.46am - Paris is put on maximum alert.

11.49am - Prime Minister David Cameron condemns the attack: ``The murders in
Paris are sickening. We stand with the French people in the fight against terror
and defending the freedom of the press.''

11.54am - Mr Hollande, in an address near the scene, says: ``We fight threats
and we will punish the attackers.''

11.59am - The first tweet is posted containing the hashtag #JeSuisCharlie in
solidarity with the victims, the magazine and its supporters.

12.26pm - French officials confirm gunmen who carried out the attack are still
at large. At least two criminals are believed to be involved.

12.38pm - The White House condemns Paris attack in the ``strongest possible
terms''.

1.30pm - AFP says the dead include three cartoonists and editor-in-chief
Stephane Charbonnier, known as Charb.

2.13pm - French interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve says ``three criminals''
were involved in the attack. They remain at large.

Throughout the evening crowds gather at London's Trafalgar Square and at Place
de la Republique in Paris and elsewhere around the world for vigils to remember
those murdered. Many hold placards reading ``Je Suis Charlie''

10pm - Heavily armed French police raid an apartment in Reims, east of Paris.

Thursday January 8:

1.41am - reports emerge that the youngest suspect, 18-year-old Hamyd Mourad, has
handed himself into police after seeing his name linked to the massacre. Soon
afterwards the French police release photographs of the remaining two suspects -
brothers Said Kouachi and Cherif Kouachi.

4.40am - Hundreds of people attend rallies of solidarity in America, chanting
``I am Charlie''. Throughout the night cartoonists across the world put pen to
paper, creating poignant tributes and messages of defiance.

6.58am - French prime minister Manuel Valls said that several people have been
held overnight. He adds that the two subjects still being hunted had been known
to security services.

8.45am - AFP reports there has been a second shooting - two people, including a
policewoman, have been critically wounded after a man fired on them with an
automatic rifle south of Paris.

9.57am - The policewoman shot near Paris dies. AFP reports that a number of
mosques in France have been attacked since the shooting at the newspaper
offices.

10.25am - The two suspected gunmen in the magazine shooting spotted at a petrol
station in northern France.

11am - Crowds gather at Notre Dame, and across the world, to hold a minute's
silence.

1.32pm - AFP reports that jihadist flags and Molotov cocktails were found in a
car abandoned by the Paris attackers

1.50pm - French authorities announce that they are treating the shooting of the
policewoman as a ``terrorist attack''

3.30pm - Highest security alert extended to north of Paris where suspects were
spotted. Searches continue throughout the afternoon

8pm - Eiffel Tower goes dark in tribute to Charlie Hebdo attack victims. Teams
of heavily armed officers scour the dense woodland in the 13,000 hectare Foret
de Retz around 50 miles outside Paris.

10pm - A group of core al Qaida terrorists in Syria is planning ``mass casualty
attacks'' against the West, the director general of MI5 Andrew Parker warns.

Friday January 9

Third day in the hunt for the Charlie Hebdo attack suspects

8.20am - Reports that shots have been fired in a car chase north-east of Paris.

8.45am - Bernard Cazeneuve confirms that a major operation is under way in
Dammartin-en-Goele where police helicopters have been deployed.

8.50am - Reports that two suspects have taken a hostage in the Creation Tendance
Decouverte building, in an industrial estate in Dammartin-en-Goele, near Charles
de Gaulle airport.

9am - Reports emerge that police have entered negotiations with the Kouachi
brothers.

9.20am - French authorities confirm that shots were fired at a roadblock but
deny reports of injuries.

9.39am - AFP reports that French police have identified a suspect in the
policewoman shooting. Residents in the Dammartin-en-Goele are being asked to
stay indoors and turn off the lights. Nearby schools have been put on lockdown.

9.55am - Charles de Gaulle airport - roughly eight miles away - partially closed
as the police operation in Dammartin-en-Goele continues.

11.17am - AFP reports that the Paris policewoman killing suspect is now being
linked to Charlie Hebdo massacre brothers

11.35am - Yves Albarello, MP for Seine-et-Marne, tells French broadcaster i@tele
the hostage takers have declared in a phonecall that they want to ``die as
martyrs''.

12.10am - The French Interior Ministry says police are trying to establish
contact with the hostage takers.

12.26pm Reports emerge that a separate shooting incident has taken place in
eastern Paris. It is thought that the gunman in the policewoman shooting has
taken hostages in a Kosher supermarket.

12.55pm - AFP reports that at least five people have been taken hostage.

1.19pm - Reports are emerging that at least two people have been killed in a
kosher supermarket in Porte de Vincennes.

It is thought that the gunman armed with multiple Kalashnikovs has links with
the Kouachi brothers.

The BBC reports that he told forces outside the store ``you know who I am'' and
told them to end the siege in Dammartin-en-Goele.

1.32pm - French police release mugshots of a man and woman linked to the
policewoman killing.

1.34pm The Board of Deputies of British Jews advises people to follow the
Twitter account of its French counterpart, the Conseil Representatif des
Institutions Juives de France (Crif) .

A spokesman says they ``stand with the French Jewish community in steadfast
solidarity at this difficult time''.

According to the Jewish Year Book, there are 380,000 Jewish people in Paris.

1.35pm - Police name the grocery store hostage-taker as 32-year-old Amedy
Coulibaly, who they believe was also responsible for the shooting of the Paris
policewoman.

They also say they are hunting a 26-year-old woman called Hayat Boumeddiene in
connection with the killing.

2.06pm - AFP reports that Paris hostage-taker ``knows'' one Charlie Hebdo
killer.

2.06pm - There are reports of a third shooting at the Trocadero near the Eiffel
Tower. Police are pictured with their firearms unholstered.

2.27pm - French interior ministry says Trocadero incident is a false alarm.

The BBC quotes Cherif Kouachi's lawyer telling the terror suspect to surrender.

Vincent Ollivier said: ``I would have only one piece of advice to give Mr
Kouachi - it would be to hand himself over to police authorities so that all
light can be shed on this case.

Police have called for shops on Rue des Rosiers, in the Jewish quarter of Paris
to close early ``as a precaution''.

2.30pm - Europe 1 reports that a woman received a phone call from her mother,
who is being held hostage in the shop in Porte de Vincennes.

She said: ``She called me and told me 'I am in the shop, I love you'.''

``I am scared. Someone told me there have been two deaths. No one has told me if
it is my mother or not.''

2.47pm - Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman says Israel is concerned
over 'terror offensive' in France.

2.57pm - AFP reports Sunday's meeting between Francois Hollande and Angela
Merkel has been postponed.

3.08pm - Schools near the kosher supermarket where five hostages are being held
remain closed. Parents are being advised not to travel into the area to collect
them.

3.25pm - Gunman in kosher supermarket has threatened to kill hostages if police
storm the building where Charlie Hebdo massacre suspects are holed up, an
official reveals.

3.39pm - It emerges that the Kouachi brothers, who are well-known for holding
jihadist views, were on a British watch and no-fly list to prevent them from
entering the UK or passing through a British airport.

3.55pm - Gunshots and explosions have been heard at the siege in
Dammartin-en-Goele. Smoke can be seen above the building where the Kouachi
brothers have been holed up for around seven hours.

3.59pm - Flashes of light accompany the rapid gunfire in dramatic scenes which
last for about 10 seconds.

Minutes before the explosions, balaclava-clad officers are seen moving towards
the building where the Charlie Hebdo massacre suspects are reported to be
holding one person hostage.

Dressed in black, they appear to leave the roof of the building shortly
afterwards.

4.01pm - AFP reports that official sources have said police launched an assault
on the printworks where the Charlie Hebdo suspects were holed up.

4.08pm - It is not yet known what the result of the assault was. Emergency
vehicles, including ambulances, are flooding the area as smoke obscures the
building from view. Sirens can be heard blaring in the background.

4.11pm - Six loud and very quick explosions heard at the kosher supermarket in
Paris where a gunman was holding five people hostage.

4.16pm - Ambulances and fire engines seen rushing to the scene in Paris. The
cordon appears to have been made larger as people are being asked to move back.

4.18pm - Local media reports that the Kouachi brothers have been killed in the
raid on the printworks factory.

Sirens are still ringing out in Dammartin-en-Goele, and there appears to have
been a sudden and dramatic increase in activity in the immediate area.

4.20pm - Reports emerge that the Kouachi brother's hostage has been freed, and
that several hostages who were being held in the Kosher supermarket have also
been released.

: :4.26pm - Police at supermarket siege in eastern Paris shout ``get down!'' and
``we've got him'' amid gunfire exchanges, BFM-TV reports.

Judicial police have reportedly told local broadcaster Europe1 that the
supermarket hostage taker and suspected policewoman murderer was killed in the
raid.

4.33pm - Amedy Coulibaly is believed to have been shot dead by police who
stormed the building as dusk fell in Paris. It appears the the assault took
place around 10 minutes after the raid in Dammartin-en-Goele.

Images are now emerging of a group of people - believed to be the supermarket
hostages - being escorted from the building.

They walked hurriedly and with arms around each other as they made their way to
safety.

4.44pm - More dramatic pictures from the scene of the siege show bright orange
flames engulfing the Paris supermarket as police storm the building. Another
image shows a small boy - dressed in beige trousers and a navy blue t-shirt -
being carried away.

4.54pm - There is still a lot of activity at the scene in Paris, with emergency
services flooding the surrounding streets.

Local reports claim that four hostages who were being held in the supermarket
have died.

5.07pm - It appears as if the roads around the Dammartin-en-Goele building where
the Kouachi brothers had been holed up, have now reopened. They had been closed
since around 8.20am when it was first reported that the men behind the Charlie
Hebdo massacre had taken a hostage.

Although officials can still be seen directing cars, traffic is now flowing
through the area.

5.15pm - French President Francois Hollande will address the nation at 7pm.

Security sources have reportedly said that four people were ``critically
wounded'' when police stormed into the shop in Paris, bringing the siege to a
bloody end.

5.45pm - Reports from Paris suggest a second male hostage-taker at the
supermarket may have escaped from the stand-off. Meanwhile, Boumeddiene's
whereabouts remain unknown.

Labour leader Ed Miliband said on Twitter: ``My thoughts are with the people of
France as they have faced further terrorist acts today. We stand in solidarity
with them.''

5.50pm: It is announced that Mr Cameron will join Mr Hollande at a national
unity rally in Paris on Sunday.

6.20pm: Mr Cazeneuve tells reporters: ``The events show how great the challenge
we are facing is, and the violence the terrorists are capable of.''

6.20pm: It emerges that two people are being held hostage by a gunman in a
jewellery store in the southern French city of Montpellier. It is unclear
whether the event is linked to the terrorist incidents around Paris.

6.47pm - UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon says he is relieved that the French
terrorists have been killed and urged all people around the world ``to enhance
the level of tolerance and respect for the belief and religions and tradition of
others''.

The UN chief says: ``This is a purely unacceptable terrorist attack,
criminality. This kind of criminality must be brought to justice in the name of
humanity.''

6.55pm - President Mr Hollande calls for France to ``remain vigilant'' as he
praises the ``courage, bravery and efficiency'' of the police forces that
brought the hostage situations to an end in ``one movement, with the same
result, to save lives''.

7.08pm - An Israeli official says 15 hostages have been freed from the
supermarket in Paris.

7.20pm: US president Barack Obama says he is hopeful that the immediate threat
posed by terrorists in Paris has been now resolved. He says the situation
remains fluid and that the French government continues to face the threat of
terrorism.

8.55pm - A member of al Qaida's branch in Yemen says the group directed the
attack on Charlie Hebdo.

10.20pm - Paris prosecutor Francois Molins says an employee at the printing
works where the Kouachi brothers were in Dammartin was hiding on the second
floor underneath a sink. The brothers did not realise there was another person
hiding in the warehouse. He also states Coulibaly and his girlfriend,
Boumeddiene, spoke more than 500 times to the Kouachi brothers over the phone.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             January 9, 2015 Friday

Paris terror attacks: Three hostage-takers killed

LENGTH: 753  words


FRENCH police have stormed a printing plant north of Paris, freeing a hostage
and killing two brothers linked to al Qaida who were suspected of murdering 12
people at a Paris newspaper two days ago.

Two groups of terrorists had seized hostages at separate locations around the
French capital, facing off against thousands of French security forces as the
city shut down a famed Jewish neighbourhood and scrambled to protect residents
and tourists from further attacks.

By Friday afternoon, explosions and gunshots rang out and white smoke rose
outside a printing plant in Dammartin-en-Goele, north east of Paris, where
brothers Cherif Kouachi, 32, and Said Kouachi, 34, had holed up with a hostage.

Security forces had surrounded the building for most of the day. After the
explosions, police Swat forces could be seen on the roof of the building and one
police helicopter landed near it.

Audrey Taupenas, spokeswoman for the town near the Charles de Gaulle airport,
said the brothers had died in the clash.

The two brothers came out firing, prompting the assault on the building where
they had holed up with a hostage, a security official said.

Another official, police union representative Christophe Crepin, told LCI
television that it appeared that the gunman who took hostages at a kosher market
had also died in a nearly simultaneous raid there.

How it unfolded

France has been on high alert since the country's worst terror attack in decades
- the massacre on Wednesday in Paris at the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo
that left 12 people dead.

Minutes before the storming, a gunman in a Paris kosher grocery store had
threatened to kill his five hostages if French authorities launched an assault
on the two brothers, a police official said. The two sets of hostage-takers know
each other, said the official.

Trying to fend off further attacks, the Paris mayor's office shut down all shops
along Rosiers Street in the city's famed Marais neighbourhood in the heart of
the tourist district. Hours before the Jewish Sabbath, the street is usually
crowded with shoppers - French Jews and tourists alike. The street is also only
a kilometre (half a mile) away from Charlie Hebdo's offices.

At the kosher grocery near the Porte de Vincennes neighbourhood in Paris, the
gunman burst in shooting just a few hours before the Jewish Sabbath began,
declaring: "You know who I am," the official recounted. The attack came before
sundown when the store would have been crowded with shoppers.

The official said the gunman is also believed responsible for the roadside
killing of a Paris policewoman yesterday.

Paris police released a photo of the gunman, Amedy Coulibaly, and a second
suspect, a woman named Hayet Boumddiene, who the official said was his
accomplice.

Several people wounded when the gunman opened fire in the kosher grocery were
able to flee and get medical care, the official said.

Police said 100 students were under lockdown in schools nearby and the highway
ringing Paris was closed.

Hours before and 40 kilometres (25 miles) away , a convoy of police trucks,
helicopters and ambulances streamed towards Dammartin-en-Goele, a small
industrial town near Charles de Gaulle airport, to seize the Charlie Hebdo
suspects, who had hijacked a car in a nearby town after more than two days on
the run.

"They said they want to die as martyrs," Yves Albarello, a local politician who
said he was inside the command post, told French television station i-Tele.

Cherif Kouachi, 32, was convicted of terrorism charges in 2008 for ties to a
network sending jihadis to fight US forces in Iraq.

A Yemeni security official said his 34-year-old brother, Said Kouachi, is
suspected of having fought for al Qaida in Yemen. Another senior security
official says Kouachi was in Yemen until 2012.

Both brothers were on the US no-fly list, a senior US counterterrorism official
said.

SEE ALSO

o
{http://www.scotsman.com/news/world/police-manhunt-closes-in-on-charlie-hebdo-ki
llers-1-3655882 | Police manhunt closes in on Charlie Hebdo killers | Link to
article}

CONNECT WITH THE SCOTSMAN

o {http://bit.ly/1yHJ7dx | Subscribe to our daily newsletter (requires
registration) | Link to newsletter sign up} and get the latest news, sport and
business headlines delivered to your inbox every morning

o You can also follow us on {http://on.fb.me/1yHJHb5 | Facebook | Link to The
Scotsman's Facebook page}, {http://bit.ly/1zJcWhW | Twitter | Link to The
Scotsman's Twitter page} and {http://bit.ly/1pYaV87 | Google + | Link to The
Scotsman's Google+ page}

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 8:54 PM GMT

Paris terrorist attacks: suspected Charlie Hebdo gunmen killed as
counter-terrorist police storm printworks site;
Multiple explosions heard at both sites in Paris hostage crisis

BYLINE: Rachel Blundy

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 417 words


The hunt for the two terrorist brothers behind the Charlie Hebdo massacre came
to a bloody end this afternoon as they were killed in a dramatic stand-off with
police.

Multiple explosions were heard at both hostage sites in France where terrorists
have been holed up for most of today.

Smoke was seen coming from the printing house in the small industrial town of
Dammartin-en-Goele and rounds of gunfire could be heard where the Charlie Hebdo
suspects were trapped.

Said Kouachi, 34, and his brother, Cherif, 32, who are linked to Al-Qaeda, have
been identified as the suspects in the Paris massacre which left 12 people dead
on Wednesday.

The brothers are reported to have come out of the printworks firing at police
when they were killed today. Their hostage was later freed, a French police
official said.

Minutes later, further exposions were heard at the scene of another hostage
crisis in central Paris where a gunman and his believed female accomplice were
holding five hostages at a Paris kosher grocery.

The gunman, who was the suspect in the killing of a female police officer in
Paris yesterday, burst in shooting just a few hours before the Jewish Sabbath
began, declaring: "You know who I am".

Four hostages were killed at the grocery store while 15 others were freed,
according to reports.

Paris terrorist attacks

The hostage taker - Amedy Coulibaly - was shot dead by police. He had reportedly
threatened to kill the hostages if the Kouachi brothers were killed.

A second hostage taker, a man who has not yet been named, escaped from the scene
and remains on the loose, according to reports in the French media.

Two police officers were injured as the siege came to an end this afternoon.

It is not yet known what has happened to Coulibaly's girlfriend, Hayet
Boumddiene, who was also allegedly his accomplice in the siege.

Police said 100 students were under lockdown in schools nearby and the highway
ringing Paris was closed.

One politician said the Charlie Hebdo massacre suspects - Said and Cherif - told
negotiators they "want to die as martyrs".

The pair were named as the chief suspects after Said's identity card was left
behind in their abandoned getaway car.

Prime minister Manuel Valls has said both suspects had been known to
intelligence services before the attack.

France has been on high alert since the country's worst terror attack in
decades.

A member of al-Qaida's branch in Yemen has said the group directed the attack on
staff at the Charlie Hebdo magazine.

This page is being updated.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 8:13 AM GMT

Armed police step up patrols at St Pancras following Paris terror attack

BYLINE: Robin de Peyer

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 289 words


Armed police have stepped up patrols at St Pancras station in the wake of the
Paris terror attack.

British Transport Police said security was increased to reassure the public at
the Eurostar terminal in central London.

There was also an increased British police presence at the Gard du Nord in Paris
and at Calais after the attacks.

A BTP spokesman said: "Since 2012, we have deployed armed officers within
London.

"The safety of rail passengers and staff is of paramount importance to us, and
we want to provide a reassuring, visible armed presence to deter terrorism on
the rail network.

"In light of the events in Paris, we have increased patrols at St Pancras, in
order to maintain and provide enhanced visibility and reassurance to the public.

"We keep our security arrangements under constant review," the spokesman added.

Border staff were today out on alert in case the prime suspects of the Paris
killings tried to flee to the UK.

The terror threat level will remain at "severe" in London after Wednesday's
massacre. It is the second highest threat level, meaning an attack is deemed
likely but not imminent.

Home Secretary Theresa May today urged the public to remain vigilante after 12
people were killed during the attack on the office of satirical magazine Charlie
Hebdo.

"The cowardly attacks that took place in Paris yesterday have shocked and
sickened people in the UK and around the world," she said. "And they are a
reminder of the very serious threat we face from terrorism.

More on this story

"Following the attacks, we took the precautionary step yesterday of increasing
security at the French/UK border.

"This morning I chaired Cobra to consider Britain's response to the attacks and
our own preparedness for a similar attack."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 9, 2015 Friday 10:33 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo Paris attacks: A timeline of events;
Timeline of three days of terror attacks in Paris and beyond, from the Charlie
Hebdo shootings to a siege at a kosher supermarket

BYLINE: By Charlotte Krol and Reuters, video by Keely Lockhart

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 214 words


Two brothers wanted for a bloody attack on the offices of French satirical
newspaper Charlie Hebdo were killed on Friday when anti-terrorist police stormed
their hideout, while a second siege ended with the deaths of four hostages .

The violent end to the simultaneous stand-offs northeast of Paris and at a
Jewish supermarket in the capital followed a police operation of unprecedented
scale as France tackled one of the worst threats to its internal security in
decades.

With one of the gunmen saying shortly before his death that he was funded by al
Qaeda, President Francois Hollande warned that the danger to France - home to
the European Union's biggest communities of both Muslims and Jews - was not over
yet.

"These madmen, fanatics, have nothing to do with the Muslim religion," Hollande
said in a televised address. "France has not seen the end of the threats it
faces."

Following heavy loss of life over three consecutive days, which began with the
attack on Charlie Hebdo when 12 people were shot dead, French authorities are
trying to prevent a rise in vengeful anti-immigrant sentiment.

Hollande denounced the killing of the four hostages at the kosher supermarket in
the Vincennes district of Paris. "This was an appalling anti-Semitic act that
was committed," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 9:29 PM GMT

Paris terror attacks: Eyewitness describes siege at kosher supermarket;
Witness describes the moment police stormed kosher supermarket in Paris on
Friday where dozens of people were held hostage by gunman Amedy Coulibaly

BYLINE: By Charlotte Krol and AP, video source APTN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 147 words


French                      security forces raided a kosher supermarket in Paris
on Friday where a man identified as Amedi Coulibaly had taken a number of people
hostage.

Coulibaly was killed in the raid, as were at least four hostages. Fifteen
hostages were freed.

Shops in the Jewish quarter of Le Marais, in Paris' fourth arrondissement,
closed early on Friday, due to what were described in window signs as
"exceptional circumstances".

One witness said there was an exchange of gunfire at the beginning and then "a
lot of stagnation".

France has been on high alert since the massacre Wednesday in Paris at the
satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo that left 12 people dead . Behind that attack
were Cherif Kouachi, 32, and his 34-year-old brother Said. The next day, a
gunman shot a policewoman to death in a gunfight just south of Paris.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 8:38 PM GMT

Paris terror attacks: Barack Obama says US is behind France as 'oldest ally';
President Barack Obama says the US stands with France over the multiple terror
attacks in Paris, adding "France is our oldest ally"

BYLINE: By Charlotte Krol and AFP, video source APTN

LENGTH: 218 words


President Barack Obama                      rallied to the support of France on
Friday after the bloody end to hostage sieges in Paris, vowing to offer all
assistance to combat the threat of militant Islamists.

"I want the people of France to know that the United States stands with you
today, stands with you tomorrow," Obama said at a speaking engagement in
Tennessee, describing France as America's "oldest ally."

"The moment that the outrageous attack took place, we directed all of our law
enforcement and counterintelligence operations to provide whatever support that
our ally needs in confronting this challenge," Obama added.

Obama was speaking hours after the crisis that began with the massacre of 12
people at satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo reached a dramatic climax, with French
police storming two hostage sites, killing two brothers wanted for the magazine
attack and at least one suspected accomplice.

"We're hopeful the immediate threat is now resolved. The French government
continues to face the threat of terrorism and has to remain vigilant. The
situation is fluid," Obama added. "President Hollande made it clear they'll do
whatever is necessary to protect their people and I think it's important for us
to understand France is our oldest ally."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 3:05 PM GMT

EU pushing for new anti-terror powers to monitor air travel;
EU will seek new anti-terrorism powers in the aftermath of terror attacks in
Paris

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield Riga

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 772 words


European Union security officials are pushing for new databases to monitor all
travel in or out and within Europe in order to track terror suspects in the wake
of the Charlie Hebdo attack.

A new era of travel surveillance is expected to be introduced after the attacks
which has reinforced concerns that the EU's free movement zone makes it harder
for security services keep an eye on jihadis with links to Syria or Iraq.

Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, compared the situation after
the Paris attacks to New York's 11 September 2001, terrorism that led to
controversial new EU powers such as the European arrest warrant.

"In reaction to 9/11, the EU developed the European Arrest Warrant. But we need
to do more," he said in Riga on Friday. "We need to do more."

Bernard Cazeneuve, the French interior minister, has summoned Britain, the
United States, Germany and the "most affected European countries" to an
emergency meeting on Sunday to "show their solidarity with France" as well
discussing new measure to fight terrorism.

"It's about exchanging ideas about the common challenge that the terrorists are
posing and which can only be resolved within the EU and beyond," he said.

The French radical Islamists suspected of carrying the attack on Wednesday, when
12 people were gunned down at the offices of satirical weekly magazine Charlie
Hebdo, were known to the security services.

At the meeting on Sunday, Mr Cazeneuve is expected to back EU plans to
centralise intelligence sharing on terror suspects by Europol as well as urging
the creation of databases that track the movements of jihadis when they travel.

Following the Paris meeting, MEPs will come under intense pressure next week to
drop their opposition to security databases of passenger name records (PNR),
information that includes credit card details, travel itineraries and the
dietary choices made on flights.

David Cameron has described the European Parliament's blockage of the measure,
which the Prime Minister regards as critical for British security, as "frankly
ridiculous".

"Next week in Strasbourg I will appeal to the European Parliament to speed up
work on the EU passenger name record system, which can help in detecting the
travel of dangerous people," said Mr Tusk.

EU leaders will discuss a five point anti-terrorism plan at a summit on 12
February after meetings between European foreign and interior ministers over the
next three weeks.

The anti-terror plan will see a new role for the EU's Intelligence Analysis
Centre (INTCEN) in Brussels alongside a secretive standing committee of senior
police officers on internal security known as Cosi.

Using Europol, which has new powers to collect information on people who have
never been convicted of a criminal offence, the EU is planning to create a more
centralised system of intelligence sharing allowing security services to monitor
and track suspects throughout the EU's 28 countries.

Existing border control databases will be combined with a future PNR scheme to
"ensure maximal use of passenger data processing" to create a new surveillance
system covering people travelling both within and outside the EU.

Britain, along with Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Poland, Spain and the
Netherlands, is pushing the EU to introduce border checks on suspected Islamists
returning to their home countries in Europe.

"More structured and more uniform use of databases [are required] in order to
ensure better control and detection in order to monitor movement of potential
foreign fighters," said a confidential document seen by the Telegraph.

Statewatch, a European civil liberties watchdog, accused the EU of a "response
as panicked as it is predictable" with a shopping list of unworkable, legally
questionable measures "that will do nothing to prevent the kind of appalling
attack witnessed this week".

"On the basis of what is now known about the Charlie Hebdo attacks, the need to
review existing security arrangements far outweighs the need for any new
legislation," said Ben Hayes, a specialist in EU security policy for Statewatch.

MEPs are blocking plans to share PNR air travel information on privacy grounds
and have accused governments of scaremongering in order to give new draconian
powers to police and security authorities.

"They try to react to people's fears at the cost of citizens' rights and
principles of the rule of law. These data will not help finding pretended IS
fighters," said Jan Philipp Albrecht, A German MEP, six weeks ago.

"In many cases, foreign fighters are well-known suspects meaning basic
approaches for investigation and threats already exist."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 2:44 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo attack: Anwar al-Awlaki - the al-Qaeda ideologue who may have
inspired the massacre;
After inciting a long list of terrorist attacks and calling for cartoonists who
'insult' the Prophet to be killed, Anwar al-Awlaki may still be encouraging
bloodshed from beyond the grave

BYLINE: By David Blair

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 531 words


Even beyond the grave, al-Qaeda's most successful propagandist may have inspired
more bloodshed.

Anwar al-Awlaki, an American-born preacher who specialised in radicalising
Muslims in the West, appears to have met Said Kouachi in Yemen in 2011.

If so, Kouachi would have been among his last pupils: Awlaki was killed by an
American drone in September 2011. Yet more than three years after his death, his
preachings may still have helped to incite the murders of 12 people in Paris.

Awlaki's brand of indoctrination has a remarkable history of encouraging
terrorism. What made him different from other jihadist ideologues was that he
concentrated his message almost entirely on Muslims in the West.

Awlaki's own background made him ideally suited for this task. He was an
American citizen, born in New Mexico in 1971 to Yemeni parents and educated at
Colorado State University.

English was his first language and he knew exactly how to tailor his message to
win over Muslims living in America and Europe. Awlaki understood that
theological ramblings made little impression; pointed attacks on the alleged
iniquities of Western foreign policy would be far more likely to hit their mark.

He was also among the first to grasp the full range of opportunities afforded by
the internet. Awlaki helped to create al-Qaeda's online English-language
magazine, "Inspire", and seized the chance to fill cyberspace with video clips
of his sermons.

The list of people who committed murder under his influence is remarkable. Nidal
Malik Hasan, the US Army major who killed 13 fellow soldiers in Fort Hood in
2009, was in regular email contact with Awlaki.

The Nigerian student, Omar Farouk Abdulmuttalab, who tried to destroy an
American airliner over Detroit on Christmas Day 2009 had also listened to
Awlaki's preachings in Yemen. The man who planted a car bomb near Times Square
in New York in 2010, Faisal Shahzad, told his interrogators that he was
"inspired" by Awlaki.

Another devotee of Awlaki's online performances was Roshanara Chaudhry, the
British Muslim who stabled Stephen Timms, the Labour MP, during a routine
constituency surgery in 2010.

Now the name of Said Kouachi might be added to the roll call of young Muslims
who were roused to violence by Awlaki.

The preacher's influence lives on after him. Although he was killed in Yemen and
various internet providers have tried to cleanse their servers of his speeches,
Awlaki's orations remain available to anyone prepared to look hard enough.

Until near the end of his life, he retained a veneer of respectability. After
leaving America in 2002, Awlaki moved to Britain where he lived until 2004.
During this period, he spoke at the East London Mosque and addressed a dinner
held by the Federation of Student Islamic Societies in 2003.

Even after moving to Yemen, Awlaki continued to address audiences in Britain. In
2008 and again in 2009, he spoke by audiolink to fundraising dinners held by
Cage, a group campaigning for Guantanamo inmates.

His words, always aimed at Muslims in the West, appear to have found their mark
on many impressionable young minds. The journalists of Charlie Hebdo could have
been the latest to pay the price.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 1:49 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo attack: Anwar al-Awlaki - the al-Qaeda ideologue who may have
inspired the massacre;
After inciting a long list of terrorist attacks including calling for
cartoonists who 'insulted' Prophet Mohammed to be killed, al-Qaeda mastermind
Anwar al-Awlaki may still be encouraging bloodshed from beyond the grave

BYLINE: By David Blair

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 531 words


Even beyond the grave, al-Qaeda's most successful propagandist may have inspired
more bloodshed.

Anwar al-Awlaki, an American-born preacher who specialised in radicalising
Muslims in the West, appears to have met Said Kouachi in Yemen in 2011.

If so, Kouachi would have been among his last pupils: Awlaki was killed by an
American drone in September 2011. Yet more than three years after his death, his
preachings may still have helped to incite the murders of 12 people in Paris.

Awlaki's brand of indoctrination has a remarkable history of encouraging
terrorism. What made him different from other jihadist ideologues was that he
concentrated his message almost entirely on Muslims in the West.

Awlaki's own background made him ideally suited for this task. He was an
American citizen, born in New Mexico in 1971 to Yemeni parents and educated at
Colorado State University.

English was his first language and he knew exactly how to tailor his message to
win over Muslims living in America and Europe. Awlaki understood that
theological ramblings made little impression; pointed attacks on the alleged
iniquities of Western foreign policy would be far more likely to hit their mark.

He was also among the first to grasp the full range of opportunities afforded by
the internet. Awlaki helped to create al-Qaeda's online English-language
magazine, "Inspire", and seized the chance to fill cyberspace with video clips
of his sermons.

The list of people who committed murder under his influence is remarkable. Nidal
Malik Hasan, the US Army major who killed 13 fellow soldiers in Fort Hood in
2009, was in regular email contact with Awlaki.

The Nigerian student, Omar Farouk Abdulmuttalab, who tried to destroy an
American airliner over Detroit on Christmas Day 2009 had also listened to
Awlaki's preachings in Yemen. The man who planted a car bomb near Times Square
in New York in 2010, Faisal Shahzad, told his interrogators that he was
"inspired" by Awlaki.

Another devotee of Awlaki's online performances was Roshanara Chaudhry, the
British Muslim who stabled Stephen Timms, the Labour MP, during a routine
constituency surgery in 2010.

Now the name of Said Kouachi might be added to the roll call of young Muslims
who were roused to violence by Awlaki.

The preacher's influence lives on after him. Although he was killed in Yemen and
various internet providers have tried to cleanse their servers of his speeches,
Awlaki's orations remain available to anyone prepared to look hard enough.

Until near the end of his life, he retained a veneer of respectability. After
leaving America in 2002, Awlaki moved to Britain where he lived until 2004.
During this period, he spoke at the East London Mosque and addressed a dinner
held by the Federation of Student Islamic Societies in 2003.

Even after moving to Yemen, Awlaki continued to address audiences in Britain. In
2008 and again in 2009, he spoke by audiolink to fundraising dinners held by
Cage, a group campaigning for Guantanamo inmates.

His words, always aimed at Muslims in the West, appear to have found their mark
on many impressionable young minds. The journalists of Charlie Hebdo could have
been the latest to pay the price.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 9, 2015 Friday 11:46 AM GMT

Paris Charlie Hebdo attack: How should parents explain it to young children?;
Many parents are facing difficult questions from their children about the
terrorist attacks in Paris this week. Sally Peck lends a helping hand

BYLINE: By Sally Peck

LENGTH: 637 words


On Thursday morning, as we ate scrambled eggs and toast at the breakfast table,
my daughter, who is three-and-a half, asked: "Why is there an emergency in
Paris?"

Radio 4's Today programme, on in the background, was full of news about the
murders of 12 people at the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, and the subsequent
search for the attackers . My daughter was worried about the safety of a
friend's adult child, who lives in Paris.

Terrorist attacks are confusing for anyone, but to a little one, the wailing
emergency vehicles, masks and toy guns are among his or her playtime arsenal -
they're usually so exciting - and seeing these in a sinister context is
frightening and confusing. Children - even very young children, like my daughter
- need honest and age-appropriate answers from adults they trust.

There is a temptation to shield our children from bad news. But sometimes, as
with acts of terrorism, bad news is unavoidable.

"It's a natural reaction to want to spare children from learning how the death
happened, by making up another explanation, Gianna Daly, head of clinical
services at Winston's Wish, Britain's leading charity for bereaved children, has
said . "But when a story... quickly becomes public knowledge, you will probably
prefer that the children hear the news accurately and calmly from you rather
than from rumour or from another child in the playground."

She adds that outlining what will happen next - police have raised the level of
security to protect people, they are hunting for the attackers - will help to
reassure your child.

Most important, Ms Daly says, is to listen to your child, and give them the
opportunity to say how they are feeling. Give your child time to return to the
subject with you at a later time, if they wish, and talk to their teacher to
make sure that your child is getting similar support in school.

The way to start is to ask the child what they understand about the story - let
them guide you in how much they want to know, and what they're thinking about
already. In this case, my daughter said: "People were killed in Paris. They were
at a newspaper" (for her, his was an important detail, because she frequently
visits my newspaper's offices).

My daughter was worried about safety in Paris, so the first thing my husband and
I said was that she was safe, as was our friend's offspring.

We explained that the artists working at a magazine printed drawings that made
two men angry. To be angry is natural, we said, but to use violence in response
is not OK.

Writing a blog on Le Monde's website on Thursday, Béatrice Copper-Royer said
that a nine-year-old boy had explained the terrorist attack to her in this way:
"They killed them because they think they are right and they want everyone to
think like them."

This is the essence of the conflict, and this is information a child can digest.
When she brought it up again on Thursday evening, I used this boy's words to
explain to my daughter why the terrorists resorted to violence.

If you are struggling to find the simple language to explain the events in
Paris, this Newsroundclip is informative and helpful for children aged about
four and upwards - it focuses on the French reaction to the attack, and the
importance of free speech.

In teaching any children about this attack, the main point ought to be that the
overwhelming majority of people in the world condemn any act of violence and
terror. You may not agree with someone else's ideas, but you cannot hurt them
for expressing them. Remind your child, no matter what age they are, that most
people in the world are good and kind.

As Ms Copper-Royer wrote, the tragedy of January 7 offers the opportunity to
remind children that respect for another person, for what he is, what he thinks,
even if we vehemently disagree, is essential to safeguarding our society.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 9, 2015 Friday 10:32 AM GMT

First photo from inside Charlie Hebdo offices following Paris terrorist attack;

The first photograph taken inside the Paris offices of satirical magazine
Charlie Hebdo has been released, as the manhunt for the culprits continues

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 284 words


A photo from the scene of France's worst terrorist attack in 50 years was
released on Thursday night, showing the devastation caused by jihadi brothers
Said and Cherif Kouachi as they killed 12 people in what they claimed was an
attack by al Qaeda.

The pair launched their murderous rampage on Wednesday and targeted the offices
of Charlie Hebdo - a satirical magazine which was known for poking fun at
politicians, public figures and different religions.

It has caricatured the Prophet Mohammed three times in recent years, and in
November 2011 was firebombed as a result - forcing the team to move to their
present location.

Arriving at the offices near the Bastille, in central Paris, they stormed into
the open plan building - having shot dead a security guard on their way in. They
then forced Corrine Rey, an employee, to punch in her code to enter the door.

Once inside they asked for Charb, the editor and a cartoonist, by name before
shooting him dead.

And the photo shows the terror of that moment, with papers strewn across the
rooms and red blood stains on the wooden floor.

A bullet hole is visible in the wall, and more are seen in the windows.
Survivors said they only saved themselves by cowering behind a desk.

The 12 victims were eight journalists; two police; a visitor and a maintenance
worker. Among the journalists were four of France's most celebrated cartoonists.

On Thursday, however, the magazine's editorial team vowed to continue their
work. They said the next edition, published on Wednesday, would be the largest
yet. François Hollande, the French president, said that the state would provide
a million euros to keep the low-circulation, niche - but much loved - magazine
alive.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 8:38 AM GMT

#JeSuisCharlie hashtag vigils spread around the world;
From Amsterdam to Tokyo, thousands attend "Je Suis Charlie" vigils across the
world to mourn those killed in a terror attack on Charlie Hebdo's offices in
Paris, France

BYLINE: By Keely Lockhart and AP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 223 words


Messages of condolence, outrage and defiance over the Paris terrorist attack on
a newspaper office spread quickly around the world Wednesday with thousands of
people taking to the streets to protest the killings and using the slogan "Je
Suis Charlie" on social media.

Many who poured into Place de la Republique in eastern Paris near the site of
Wednesday's noontime attack waved papers, pencils and pens. Journalists led the
march but most in the crowd weren't from the media world, expressing solidarity
and support of freedom of speech.

Similar gatherings, including some silent vigils, took place at London's
Trafalgar Square, in front of the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, in Madrid,
Brussels, Nice and elsewhere.

"No matter what a journalist or magazine has to say, even if it is not what the
majority of people think, they still have the right to say it without feeling in
danger, which is the case today," said Alice Blanc, a London student who is
originally from Paris and was among those in the London crowd, estimated in the
hundreds.

Online, the declaration "Je Suis Charlie," or "I Am Charlie," replaced profile
pictures on Facebook while Twitter users showed themselves with the slogan on
signs with words of support for the 12 victims who were killed at Charlie Hebdo,
a weekly newspaper that had caricatured the Prophet Muhammad.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 7:00 AM GMT

The lessons of Paris must not be forgotten;
Telegraph View: the terror attack on Charlie Hebdo raises questions about
Western security. Failure to address them would dishonour the dead

BYLINE: By Telegraph View

LENGTH: 448 words


The brutal assault on the offices of Charlie Hebdo in Paris will cast a shadow
of fear over Europe. Questions will be asked about how safe its citizens really
are. Many in France will be disturbed to discover that at least two of the men
implicated in the assault were known to the authorities. Cherif Kouachi had
spent time in prison for his links to terrorism, for being part of a jihadist
recruitment ring that sent people to fight in Iraq. His brother, Said, was
allegedly involved with his sibling in a 2010 prison-break plot.

This scenario is familiar. Two of the men involved in the 7/7 bombings in London
were familiar to British intelligence, as were both of the culprits behind the
Woolwich beheading in 2013. Why is it that killers known to the authorities are
not watched more closely? Resources are stretched and the answer is typically
that they are not classified highly enough to warrant permanent surveillance.
Moreover, it can be difficult to tell when someone merely associated with
Islamist politics has made the leap from armchair to violent fundamentalism.

Those points have been raised in a speech by Andrew Parker, the Director General
of MI5. He states that "the number of crude but potentially deadly plots" has
gone up. These are conspiracies that are the "work of volatile individuals,
motivated by terrorist propaganda rather than working as part of sophisticated
networks" - and they are "inherently harder for intelligence networks to
detect". Overall, Britain's security picture has "worsened and [become] more
complex."

Some will say that excuses are not enough. While it is true that the security
services have foiled plots, when they fail to watch a potential threat closely
enough then the consequences are deadly. Our security apparatus should be open
to scrutiny and failure demands examination. It is apparent in the French case
that the alleged killers grew up in a part of France awash with weapons,
effectively beyond the control of the police - suggesting that a thorough review
of community relations is desperately needed.

As for the UK, Mr Parker argues that, civil liberties concerns accepted, it is
necessary for MI5 to "monitor terrorists' communications" and gather relevant
intelligence. The Government wishes to pass a new counter-terrorism Bill that
will tackle the problem of returnees from overseas conflicts and introduce new
measures to fight radicalisation, including requiring universities to ban
extremist speakers. It is apparent that both improved security and the promotion
of Western values are needed. What must not happen is that Europe rages, grieves
and then carries on as though nothing happened. That would dishonour the dead.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 6:15 AM GMT

We must always be free to criticise ideas like Islam;
The terrorist attacks on Charlie Hebdo show that liberal societies must continue
to defend free speech, says Nick Clegg

BYLINE: By Nick Clegg

LENGTH: 814 words


The way we describe the world is changing. The old labels - East and West; Left
and Right; market and state - are increasingly irrelevant in a fluid, globalised
world. The future faultlines in politics, both nationally and internationally,
will not be ones of geography or ideology or wealth. They will be divisions
between those societies that are open and those that are closed. The horrific
attack in France this week was an attempt to close down our societies, to close
down minds, and to close down free expression. It was an assault not just on
journalists and cartoonists but on the values of free speech, public dispute and
openness which those professions embody. It was an attack on the very heart of
an open, liberal society.

Sadly, attacks like these can lead governments, sometimes with the best of
intentions, to introduce measures in the name of public safety that undermine
the very freedoms we cherish, and which our enemies despise. Which is why, at
moments like these, amid the understandable clamour that 'something be done',
the liberal instinct against knee-jerk authoritarianism is something we would be
well-advised to heed.

Every so often we are confronted by events that force each of us to take a clear
stand - and a side. The attack on the offices of Charlie Hebdo was just such a
moment, demanding a straight answer to a simple question: "are you Charlie?" You
don't have to agree with everything, or even anything, that Charlie Hebdo
published to "be Charlie" - you only have to wish to protect the freedoms and
rights that define liberal societies like ours.

Liberalism is a set of values - a belief in freedom and equality before the law
- that needs to be defended and explained, fearlessly and without qualification.
In a multicultural society like ours, it is our shared values, not our national
symbols, that ultimately bind us. Our open society is a precious thing. Only by
being clear about those values and why they benefit all of us collectively will
we expose an important truth: that the overwhelming majority of British
citizens, of all faiths and backgrounds, would not hesitate to declare "Je suis
Charlie."

The debate about the limits of free speech is an old one, which we need now as
much as ever. It is complex but I am clear where I stand - with the actor Rowan
Atkinson, who once said "to criticise a person for their race is manifestly
irrational and ridiculous. But to criticize their religion, that is a freedom, a
right." Nor, as he explained, is it a frivolous right, a licence to "gob off"
but rather that "the freedom to criticise ideas, any ideas, even if they are
sincerely held beliefs, is one of the fundamental freedoms of society."

The freedom that allows someone to criticise an idea - even a religious idea -
is the same freedom that allows others to promote it. We are all free to agree
or disagree, believe or disbelieve, support or oppose. That we in Britain can do
so, usually in a spirit of tolerance, makes us a beacon for the world's
oppressed.

Atkinson's comments were provoked by the last Labour Government conflating race
and religion in an attempt to reduce hate crimes back in 2004. But all
governments are capable of trampling on free speech, which is why in 2013 my
party forced the repeal of Section 5 of the Public Order Act which criminalised
the use of "insulting words" that cause "alarm or distress." Section 5 was used
to arrest demonstrators in Trafalgar Square for wearing T-shirts depicting the
Danish cartoons, and to prosecute someone who described scientology as a
"dangerous cult."

Some of those who died on Wednesday had drawn cartoons which they knew were
offensive to others. But no one ever deserves to be killed just because they
have caused offence. This is the bottom line: in a free society people have to
be free to offend each other. There is no such thing as a right not to be
offended. You cannot have freedom unless people are free to offend each other.

None of this is simple. The same laws that allow satirists to ridicule Islamists
allow Islamists (and other extremists) to promote their views. When extremists
incite violence or promote terrorism, the criminal law is the right response.
But when they peacefully express views which the majority of people find odious,
we need to remember what is at stake. Free speech cannot just be for people we
agree with. If it is to mean anything, free speech has to be for everyone.

As this debate plays out we should remember that, in the end, we will win this
struggle not by increasing our security but by protecting our liberty. This was
an attack on who we are and the values we hold. Now, more than ever, we must
fend off the forces of hatred, intolerance and division. We must stand up for
our values and ensure our society remains open rather than closed. If we abandon
or qualify our liberties, then we will have lost the struggle.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             January 9, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Terror cells plotting attacks on British landmarks, MI5 chief warns

BYLINE: Sean O'Neill

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 281 words


Al-Qaeda cells in Syria are plotting sophisticated terror attacks against
airliners, transport systems and landmarks in Britain, the head of MI5 warned
last night.

Hundreds of British jihadists have returned from the war-torn country and some
of those were intent on pursuing their "twisted ideology" by carrying out lethal
attacks here.

Andrew Parker, director-general of the intelligence agency, said that police and
intelligence agencies had saved lives in Britain by thwarting three terror plots
driven from Syria in recent months. "But we cannot be complacent," he said in a
speech at MI5 headquarters in London. "Although we and our partners try our
utmost, we know that we cannot hope to stop everything."

The greatest volume of plots were crude schemes driven by Islamic State (Isis),
but MI5 was also being tested by more carefully orchestrated threats from the
core of al-Qaeda, the militant group founded by Osama bin Laden which carried
out the 9/11 attacks. Mr Parker said: "We still face more complex and ambitious
plots that follow the now sadly well-established approach of al-Qaeda and its
imitators - attempts to cause large-scale loss of life, often by attacking
transport systems or iconic targets. We know, for example, that a group of core
al-Qaeda terrorists in Syria is planning mass casualty attacks against the
west."

Suspicions that al-Qaeda is linked to the Paris attack deepened yesterday after
surveillance photos appeared in the French media showing one of the alleged
gunmen, Chérif Kouachi, playing football with Djamel Beghal, a convicted
terrorist who used to live in Britain and used Finsbury Park Mosque in north
London to recruit for bin Laden's network.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Western Morning News

                             January 9, 2015 Friday

Don't let terror attacks divide us, plea faith leaders

SECTION: AGENCY:OTHER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 297  words


Muslim leaders joined the heads of other faiths and local communities as they
urged the Westcountry not to allow  recent terror attacks "drive a wedge"
between them.

The call came as Devon and Cornwall police officers were warned to take more
care about their personal security and they took part in a two-minute silence
for colleagues who had "died defending the freedom of speech".

Assistant Chief Constable Paul Netherton said British police wanted to show
their support for French forces and send a clear message that "terrorism does
not work".

"Police officers put their lives on the line on a daily basis," he said. "But on
this occasion it is important to send a clear message that terrorism does not
work and will not stop us policing with our community in support of a free and
democratic society."

Politicians, newspaper editors and faith leaders added their voices to the call.
Mohammed Abu Muganzi, director of the Plymouth Islamic Education Trust (PIETY),
condemned the actions of the Paris gunmen and appealed for calm.

"Backlash always follows events like this as unfortunately people do not
discriminate between the general Muslim population and the people who commit
these atrocities," he said. "So we ask people to leave justice to the officials
and we extend our condolences to the families of the victims."

Roger Bush, the Dean of Truro Cathedral praised the many peaceful demonstrations
that took place throughout Wednesday evening and yesterday.

"It is crucial that we do not allow terrorists or criminals to drive a wedge
between us," he added. "All faiths need to live together peacefully."

And the Bishop of Exeter, Robert Atwell, said it was "fantastic" to see how
communities were "pulling together in the face of these atrocities, and are
together rebuilding hope".

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              West Sussex Gazette

                             January 9, 2015 Friday

Sussex Police pay tribute to Paris terror attack victims

BYLINE: Tom Cotterill

LENGTH: 599  words


POLICE across Sussex fell silent this morning, paying tribute to those killed
during an apparent militant Islamist attack in Paris yesterday (Wednesday,
January 7).

Officers from across Sussex Police joined their colleagues from police forces in
Hampshire and Dorset in a two-minute silence at 10.30am to mark the Charlie
Hebdo magazine massacre, which left 12 dead and France on its highest level of
terror alert.

Deputy Chief Constable Olivia Pinkney led the service, quoting philosopher
Voltaire- "I may not agree with what you have to say but I will defend to the
death your right to say it."

She continued: "Our job, as a proud police profession, is to protect the
vulnerable, keeping people safe from harm. Yesterday our French colleagues were
murdered doing simply that, dying alongside 10 others and today another officer
has been murdered in the south of Paris.

"We are the police family. We stand with you, our colleagues in France as you
mourn and honour those killed. As you continue to bravely walk towards danger in
your hunt for those who have caused such horror, we continue to police today as
you do in France and will do every day."

Two gunmen, clad in black, wearing balaclavas and armed with assault rifles,
stormed the headquarters of the satirical publication - which had previously
mocked the prophet Muhammad in 2011 - while staff were holding their morning
meeting.

A total of nine journalists from the paper, alongside two police officers and
one other, were killed during the offensive,
{http://www.theguardian.com/world/2015/jan/07/paris-terror-attack-what-we-know-s
o-far|  The Guardian} has said.

Four others are believed to be in a critical condition.

The masked men fled in a car, prompting one of the largest manhunts in France's
history.

More than 3,000 police officers were mobilised to hunt down the gunmen.

Speaking to the media yesterday, French President Francois Hollande said there
was no doubt the assault had been a terrorist attack of exceptional barbarity'.

Prime Minister David Cameron has also condemned the slaughters.

Commenting on Twitter, he said: "The murders in Paris are sickening. We stand
with the French people in the fight against terror and defending the freedom of
the press."

Last night tens of thousands of people took to the streets of the French
capital, and others across the globe, in a display of united defiance against
the onslaught.

Crowds held placards with the slogan #JeSuisCharlie - I am Charlie' - written in
French on them.

It came as French commandos continued their hunt for the suspected terrorists.

Police are searching for two brothers, Said Kouachi and Cherif Kouachi, in
connection with yesterday's killings.

Latest reports suggest that two men, matching the description of the suspects,
have been spotted during an armed robbery at a petrol station near
Villers-Cotteret, in the northern Aisne region, east of Paris, earlier today.

{http://news.sky.com/story/1404236/shots-fired-in-paris-suspects-robbery |  Sky
News} reported that shots were fired shots during the alleged incident.

Yesterday evening heavily armoured French police raided an apartment in the city
of Reims in the hunt for the killers.

A total of seven people were detained overnight as a result of this, French
officials reported.

The British Government has said that, in the wake of the Charlie Hebdo attack,
it would not be changing the UK terror threat level, which is currently set at
severe'.

Yesterday's terror attack is believed to be the deadliest in France since 1961,
when right-wingers who wanted to keep Algeria French bombed a train, killing 28
people.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JPWG


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Wimbledon Guardian

                             January 9, 2015 Friday

UKIP hold vigil for peace for Paris terror attack victims

BYLINE: Louisa Clarence-Smith

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 237 words


A vigil for peace will be held in Merton by UKIP this evening for those who have
lost their lives in Paris over the past three days.

The party is holding a vigil outside Merton Civic Centre in Morden at 6.30pm.

Twelve people were shot dead in an attack on Wednesday in the offices of
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.

Merton pays tribute to lives lost in Paris

Terrorists suspected of carrying out the Charlie Hebdo massacre are currently
holding a hostage in a town north-east of Paris, the BBC has reported.

A gunman at a kosher supermarket in Paris is also holding hostages, according to
the BBC.

The Merton vigil has been organised by UKIP parliamentary candidate for Mitcham
and Morden, Richard Hilton, who said he has been contacted by a number of
residents who want to show their solidarity with Paris.

He said: "Paris is our nearest neighbour abroad and it is important that we show
solidarity with France and the victims of these savage attacks.

"Our thoughts and prayers go out to the victims who have been of all religions
and none.

"These attacks could just as easily happen in London and to carry out such
audacious and repeated attacks in the heart of Paris makes clear that those who
oppose our values are convinced we lack the resolve to defend them.

"They are wrong. We now have a duty to make clear to all those who hate our
freedom to discuss, to debate, to criticise and even to offend - you will never,
ever, win."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 10, 2015 Saturday

Russian Muslim body expresses sorrow at "monstrous" terrorist attack in Paris

LENGTH: 385 words


Text of report by RIA Novosti (part of the state-owned International News Agency
Rossiya Segodnya)

Ufa, 10 January: Russian Muslims reacted with indignation and pain to the
terrorist attack committed in Paris, which claimed the lives of 12 people,
according to a statement released by the Central Spiritual Board of Muslims of
Russia (CSBMR) in Ufa [capital of Republic of Bashkortostan].

The succession of terrorist acts and incidents began in France on Wednesday [7
January], when two intruders broke into the editorial office of weekly satirical
magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris and opened fire on the people inside. Twelve
people were killed, including two police officers, and the attackers were able
to escape. Brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi were named as the suspects in the
attack on the magazine and were eliminated by special forces on Friday [9
January] in the town of Dammartin-en-Goele.

"The perpetrators of the monstrous crime against the editorial office of the
Paris magazine defiantly portrayed themselves as Muslims, and 'justified' the
accusation levelled by them at their victims as revenge for 'offending Islam and
that which it holds sacred'. Russian Muslims grieve deeply alongside the French
people for the innocents killed at the hands of the terrorists, who once again
uncovered the true face of terrorism, which has no relation to such concepts as
the homeland, nationality, or religion. The national mourning declared in France
applies also to Russian Muslims," the CSBMR statement read.

The Central Spiritual Board of Muslims of Russia commiserates with the families
and friends of those killed and expresses its readiness to rebuff any
manifestation of terrorism, "whatever national or religious dress it may
disguise itself in".

The Muslim community calls upon all to rally together in the fight against this
terrible evil. "We are deeply convinced that major political leaders of the
modern world should recognize even more deeply those global challenges, which
can only be responded to successfully through unified, collective efforts of the
entire global community, and only under conditions of reliable, pre-agreed
alignment of global and national political priorities," the CSBMR statement
noted.

Source: RIA Novosti (MIA Rossiya Segodnya), Moscow, in Russian 0814 gmt 10 Jan
15

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 10, 2015 Saturday

Turkish whistleblower says secret service plans terror attack

LENGTH: 484 words


Text of report in English by Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman website on 10
January

[Unattributed report: "Spy agency planning false-flag terror acts in crowded
areas, whistleblower claims"]

"Fuat Avni" tweet, Today's Zaman, 10 January

A Turkish whistleblower, who has a credible record of predicting police
operations and government policies, has made a shocking claim, arguing that the
Turkish spy agency is planning false-flag operations to blow up crowded areas to
frame the Gulen movement as a terrorist organization.

Fuat Avni said early on Saturday that the President Recep Tayyip Erdogan
initially planned to use Dec. 14 raids against the media to announce the Gulen
movement as a terrorist organization, but he had to resort to other ways as the
previous plan failed. The whistleblower said Erdogan approved of the false-flag
operations.

"After the fiasco," Avni tweeted, "Erdogan tasked the spy agency [National
Intelligence Organization] MIT with labelling the Gulen movement as a terrorist
organization." He claimed that Erdogan has difficult time after France shootings
for his support for the Islamic State of Iraq and Levant (ISIL) and al-Qaeda.
"To get out of this difficult period and turn the tide in his favour, Erdogan is
making new evil plans," Avni tweeted.

Avni claims to be in the inner circle of Erdogan. A recent article at Foreign
Policy said Fuat Avni "has proved to have startlingly accurate knowledge of
events before they happen" and he has "captivated the country with his mostly
reliable predictions of events."

Noting that Turkish Islamic scholar Fethullah Gulen has displayed a staunch
opposition to radical groups committing terrorism, Avni said ruling Justice and
Development Party (AK Party) spokesman and the party ideologue Besir Atalay and
MIT chief Hakan Fidan "planned terror acts similar to those in France" and will
frame the Gulen movement after they blow up crowded areas.

"A terror act that will kill dozens of innocent people in a large city was
planned by [MIT head] Hakan Fidan and presented to Erdogan," the whistleblower
wrote, sending shockwaves through social media and hitting morning headlines of
Turkish media.

He claimed that spies from the MIT will commit the terror acts and present
themselves as from the Gulen movement. He added that the president didn't
hesitate in approving a "terror act that would kill dozens so that the Gulen
movement is remembered as a terrorist group."

"I'm warning all citizens against possible terror acts orchestrated by Hakan
Fidan's unit in the very near future," the whistleblower said, urging the people
to stay away from big shopping malls and crowded areas. "You could be a victim
of Erdogan's evil plans," he said.

He stated that terror acts "are planned to take place in malls and AKP buildings
so it could increase rancour and violence against the Gulen movement."

Source: Zaman website, Istanbul, in English 10 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 10, 2015 Saturday

Iran leader's advisor says Paris attacks indicate spread of terrorism to West

LENGTH: 188 words


Excerpts from report in English by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars
News Agency website

Tehran, 10 January: Supreme Leader's senior adviser Ali Akbar Velayati said the
terrorist attack that killed 12 people in Paris on Wednesday [7 January]
indicated that terrorism is now spreading to the Western states as already
warned by Iran.

"We condemn the terrorist actions that took place in France as the Islamic
Republic of Iran deplores any terrorist move which leads to the killing of
innocent people in any part of the world and we regret that many French people
have been killed by the terrorists," Velayati said on the sidelines of a meeting
with Cypriot Foreign Minister Ioannis Kasoulides in Tehran on Saturday.

"This should warn those Western or regional states that support terrorists
directly or indirectly that when the dirty flames of terrorism are blown, they
will spread to the entire world," he added.

Velayati underlined that terrorism has a blind logic which is not accepted by
any religion, including Islam and Christianity.

[Passage omitted]

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1500 gmt 10 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 10, 2015 Saturday

Turkish commentary links Istanbul, Paris terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 610 words


Text of report by Turkish newspaper Sabah website on 9 January

[Column by Mahmut Ovur: "Are the Paris and Istanbul Attacks Coincidental?"]

It is very obvious that the bloody attack on the satirical magazine Charlie
Hebdo in Paris is, like 11 September 2001, the beginning of a new era. The fact
that the identity of those who carried out this attack was Muslim does not
change the results. What is really important is what attacks of this sort lead
to...

From this standpoint, the selection of Paris, and a media organ, as the target
of the bloody terror attack was no everyday choice. Just like the New York
attack, this was a planned and conscious choice.

In addition, it was a special decision, with a number of goals... With this
action, a message is conveyed that says "stop" to France's new policies towards
Palestine and Syria, that adds strength to the rising Islamophobia in Europe,
and that aims at deepening the connections between the Islamic world and the
West.

This action cannot be considered in isolation from the many-sided aggressive
global siege to put a halt to the process of democratic change within the
Islamic world that began with the Arab Spring and includes Turkey as well.

The action, in terms of the results that it would produce, is congruent with the
goal of the "superior mind" that is working to design, via ISIL [Islamic State
of Iraq and the Levant], the region that Turkey is in.

Just look at this coincidence: Turkey and France want the dictator [Syrian
President Bashar] Al-Asad to depart, and the Palestinian state to be recognized.
And both countries, at almost the same time, are the targets of terror linked to
Al-Qa'idah! And what a coincidence that the suicide bomber said to be from the
DHKP-C [Revolutionary People's Liberation Party -Front] turns out to be a
Russian citizen of Daghestani origin.

Is there nothing strange in this affair? The reaction that the EU countries, and
particularly France, will show to these actions will also show how the near-term
future of the world will take shape. We are going into a difficult and chaotic
period from the standpoint of the world. We are in a transition process in which
the age of ideologies has ended and ethnic and religious identities are coming
to the forefront, but in which a new conception of the world has not yet been
laid out.

The neocon-oriented global forces want to get through this period by maintaining
the old status quo, dragging some regions into chaos, and even inciting partial
wars. The effective terrorist organizations ranging from Al-Qa'idah to ISIL that
are detonating bombs on a daily basis, especially in the geography of Islam, are
a consequence of this political engineering. And in the West, the sociological
basis of this is nourished through xenophobia and Islamophobia.

Naturally, in contrast to this, the peace-lovers of the global world are also
not standing idly by; both in Europe and throughout the world, they are raising
their voices. Just look at the period before the Paris attack. In Germany, for
instance, German society made a very significant peace effort against the rising
racist and Islamophobic movements like PEGIDA [Patriotic Europeans Against the
Islamization of the West]. Thousands of people, by filling the public squares in
Cologne and turning out the lights on the Catholic Cathedral, showed that they
will not tolerate the "dark" trend. We have seen a similar thing in Sweden,
where mosques have been destroyed.

While the rising xenophobia from Europe causes fear, the voices of peace instil
hope. All the world's peace-lovers need to add strength to this hope.

Source: Sabah website, Istanbul, in Turkish 9 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 10, 2015 Saturday

Paris attacks "alarm for sponsors of terrorism" - Iran leader's advisor

LENGTH: 270 words


Text of report in English by website of Iranian conservative Tasnim news agency

Tehran: Head of the Strategic Research Centre of Iran's Expediency Council Ali
Akbar Velayati sounded a warning on Saturday [10 January] that the recent fatal
terrorist attacks in Paris were a sign that terrorism plagues its sponsors as
well.

"A number of innocent people were killed in France and this is a warning for the
Western or the regional countries, which supported terrorism directly or
indirectly in a way that the filthy fire of terrorism flared up and even burnt
the sponsors of terrorism," Velayati said in a meeting with Cypriot Foreign
Minister Ioannis Kasoulidis in Tehran on Saturday.

The comments came after a string of terrorist incidents in France that took the
lives 17 victims in three days of violence that began with an attack on the
Charlie Hebdo satirical weekly on Wednesday and ended with Friday's dual
hostage-taking at a print works outside Paris and kosher supermarket in the
city.

"We condemn the terrorist incidents and moves in France," Velayati underscored,
and added, "The Islamic Republic of Iran condemns terrorist operations per se
and the killing of innocent people, whether in the Middle East and West Asia or
any part of the world."

Velayati also noted that both Iran and Cyprus emphasize that certain regional
countries should stop supporting terrorism.

He further pointed to Tehran-Nicosia relations, saying the meeting with
Kasoulidis demonstrated that Iran and Cyprus's views are "very close" on Iraq,
Palestine, Lebanon and Syria.

Source: Tasnim news agency website, Tehran, in English 1535 gmt 10 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Burton Mail

                           January 10, 2015 Saturday

Call to stand together against terror attacks

BYLINE: Laura Hammond

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 390  words


A COMMUNITY leader has spoken out to condemn a terrorist attack in France which
saw 17 people lose their lives.

Amir Kabal (pictured), director of the East Staffordshire Rights and Equality
Council, said people of all religions and backgrounds should unite to stand
against the organisations who commit such crimes in the name of religion.

Two police officers, eight journalists and two others were   killed when gunmen
stormed the Charlie Hebdo magazine, in Paris, while shouting 'God is Great'.

Earlier that day, a message had been sent out on Twitter with an illustration
featuring the prophet Mohammed.

Mr Kabal, who is a Muslim himself, told the Mail people of all faiths had been
outraged by the shootings, which have been condemned worldwide.

He said: "They have, as they were with the killings in the Pakistan school and
with any other case like this.

"These people just don't have any religion or belief. They are trying to create
divisions and fear and it's important that people stand up and speak against
that. They are simply evil for trying to do that.

"People should be speaking up for their own communities, because we're all part
of humanity.

"If you kill a person, you're killing humanity."

Vigils have been held in Paris, where the newspaper is based, since the
harrowing attack took place on Wednesday.

The gunmen went on the run after the shootings, and a manhunt ensued.

The day after the Charlie Hebdo killings a police woman was shot dead,  and
yesterday four further victims were killed during the sieges.

Suspects, brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi, later took hostages in a village
near the capital, and further people were held captive in a Parisian
supermarket.

The brothers and the hostage-taker were killed by police yesterday,

Mr Kabal referred to the words of Dr Musharraf Hussain, of the Karimina
Institute in Nottingham, and urged people to follow them.

The scholar said: "Terrorists carry out their heinous acts to gain publicity for
their cause but what is far more  sinister is their motive to create division
and conflict in the country and it is this that we need to be aware of and not
let them succeed.

"The entire community has to show solidarity and unity. This means that we stand
together, united against such evil forces that try to divide our different
communities and create rift amongst us."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VIOLENCE . . . one of the wounded is taken away from Charlie Hebdo
following the shootings.
County Buildings.Mr Amir Kabal
An injured person is transported to an ambulance after a shooting, at the French
satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo's office, in Paris, Wednesday, Jan. 7, 2015.
Masked gunmen stormed the offices of the newspaper Wednesday, killing at least
11 people before escaping, police and a witness said. The weekly has previously
drawn condemnation from Muslims. (AP Photo/Thibault Camus)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           January 10, 2015 Saturday

US issues global travel alert after Paris terror attacks

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 256 words


WASHINGTON - The US State Department on Friday issued a global travel alert for
Americans after the Paris attacks this week.

The alert, which was updated for the first time in three months, warned
Americans traveling in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and other hot spots that
they could face terrorist attack or kidnapping.

According to the warning, the specific concern here lies with the Islamic State
(IS), which may retaliate against US military strikes by "calling on supporters
to attack foreigners wherever they are."

"Extremists may elect to use conventional or non-conventional weapons, and
target both official and private interests," it said.

In addition to the warning to individuals, the global alert also pointed out
that government facilities around the world are on heightened vigilance as well,
and may "temporarily close or periodically suspend public services to assess
their security posture."

Americans traveling abroad are encouraged to stay in contact with US embassies
or consulates wherever they are staying, it added.

Meanwhile, US Federal Bureau of Investigation and Homeland Security Department
jointly issued a bulletin to 18,000 local law enforcement departments across the
country, urging local police and the public to watch out for increased terrorist
activity.

French attackers showed a high degree of training and sophistication compared to
other recent attacks on soft targets, the bulletin warned.

"We urge the public to remain vigilant and report suspicious activity to law
enforcement," it said.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           January 10, 2015 Saturday

Cultural conflict led to terrorist attack in Paris

BYLINE: Zhu Sumei

SECTION: OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS

LENGTH: 502 words


Three hooded gunmen shot dead 12 people in the offices of Charlie Hebdo, a
Paris-based satirical magazine, on Wednesday in the deadliest attack in France
in more than half a century, which French President Francois Hollande has called
"an act of exceptional barbarism". Hollande also declared a national day of
mourning on Thursday, not least because the audacious attack claimed the lives
of the Charlie Hebdo (Charlie Weekly) editor and three of France's finest
cartoonists.

Fears had been rising in France and other European countries that jihadists
returning from Iraq and Syria would orchestrate more attacks in their countries
of origin. A direct contributing factor to the tragic attack in Paris is
believed to be the repeated publication of cartoons making fun of Islam by
European magazines. Jihadists had warned Charlie Hebdo through the Internet many
times to stop publishing cartoons ridiculing Prophet Muhammad. But the magazine
continued to ignore the warnings and threats. Last year, its Twitter account
satirized Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, leader of the Islamic State, prompting sporadic
attacks in France.

The global propaganda campaign launched by the IS, which controls large swathes
of Iraq and Syria, too acted as instigation for the attack in Paris. Unlike
al-Qaida and other "traditional terrorist groups", the IS is irksomely skilled
at attracting youngsters from across the globe to join the "jihad" (holy war),
because its members are adept at using social network tools such as Facebook and
Twitter.

A number of youths even from the West, including Europe and the United States,
were drawn to the IS last year. Some 2,000 "radical militants" born in Europe
are said to have joined the IS and participated in its self-proclaimed "holy
war".

Worse, some of them returned to their countries of origin after being trained by
the IS in the "art of waging war". Cherif Kouachi, one of the three French
gunmen who attacked the Charlie Hebdo offices, was charged with having criminal
associations with a "terrorist enterprise" in 2005 by French law enforcers
before leaving for Iraq to join Islamists.

Culturally speaking, the Paris attack reveals the mounting conflict between
Islamic culture and Western values such as liberty and individualism. Freedom of
expression (and thus publication), for instance, allows the French media to
satirize political affairs and lampoon politicians. But for most devout Muslims,
the lampooning of Prophet Muhammad is intolerable and downright offensive.

Of course, the gunning down of 12 people in the offices of Charlie Hebdo can be
only described as a terrorist attack and deserves strong condemnation by the
civilized world. But the tragedy should also prompt media outlets to determine
the boundary that separates freedom of expression (and thus right to lampoon
someone) and respect for religions.

The author is a professor in the International Politics Department at the
University of International Relations in Beijing.

(China Daily 01/10/2015 page5)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           January 10, 2015 Saturday

Chinese denounce terror following deadly attacks in Paris

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 252 words


BEIJING - After a spate of deadly attacks rocked Paris, Chinese authorities and
citizens mourned the victims and denounced terrorism.

The city suffered two shootings and one hostage situation over the course of
three days, resulting in 17 dead. The gunmen responsible were associated with an
Islamist group.

In the most deadly assault, gunmen shot dead 12 people at the office of the
satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo, including the magazine's editor, celebrated
cartoonists and two policemen, and injured 11 others.

French President Francois Hollande on Wednesday called the shooting an act of
terror.

The horrible tragedy also drew sympathy and condemnation of terrorism from
Chinese authorities, media and the common people.

After the attack, the front page of the magazine's official website featured the
French words "I am Charlie" in bold characters against a black background to
mourn the victims.

After learning the news, Chinese Internet users also used the phrase to express
solidarity with the victims.

An Internet user called "Yingxiang" said on the microblog Weibo that the
incidents marked a showdown between terrorism and anti-terror forces, and was a
true test of human conscience. "Therefore, today all of humanity is Charlie,"
the blogger wrote.

Another Weibo blogger, "MAX, a bilingual moderator," said it was a shame there
was no Chinese version of the phrase "I am Charlie" on the magazine's official
website, but said the Chinese people would like to voice the sentiment from the
bottom of their hearts.


LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     January 10, 2015 Saturday 12:14 PM GMT

Je suis Charlie: Paris Saint Germain pay tribute to victims of Charlie Hebdo
terror attack;
THE reigning French champions will wear the name Charlie on their shirts with a
minute's silence taking place at games across the country.

BYLINE: By Gregor Kyle

SECTION: SPORT,FOOTBALL,FOOTBALL NEWS

LENGTH: 120 words


PARIS SAINT GERMAIN have paid tribute to the victims of this week's terror
attacks in France, with the name 'Charlie' printed on their shirts for this
weekend's match against Bastia.

A picture was Tweeted from inside the French champion's dressing room last
night, showing the specially printed shirts hanging in the lockers.

Clubs in every division across France will stand for a minute's silence ahead of
their games today in the wake of the attacks on the Charlie Hebdo magazine
offices that saw 12 people murdered.

The people of France have united in solidarity in the wake of the attack and the
events that followed, sending out the message 'Not Afraid' as they gathered in
their thousands in streets across the country.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     January 10, 2015 Saturday 11:37 AM GMT

Paris shootings: Video of moment gunman dies in a hail of bullets as police
storm supermarket;
Terrified hostages run for their lives as heavily armed police enter the store
in Paris as they put an end to the terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Josh Layton

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 315 words


Police storm terrorist-held supermarket

This dramatic video is believed to show the moment terrorist Amedy Coulibaly
dies in a hail of bullets as riot police stormed a grocery storm during the
Paris hostage siege.

The extraordinary footage - released this evening - shows dozens of heavily
armed police waiting outside the kosher grocery store in Paris.

As the shutters to the store slowly roll up, the cops begin firing what appeared
to be flash-bang grenades inside.

The dead body of a man can be seen lying on the ground as police begin piling
into the store.

At one point, a man runs for the exit with a police officer aiming his gun at
him.

We have edited the footage above to cut out the graphic moment the man believed
to be Coulibaly is killed at point blank range.

But in that edited section what looks like a gun falls from the man's arms as he
is shot and police close over him to complete the job.

During the chaos, terrified hostages can be seen running for the exit as the
riot police attempt to storm inside.

One petrified man just inside the doorway can be seen raising his hands as he is
challenged at gunpoint before being allowed to escape.

An injured officers is dragged a short way down the street by two colleagues but
is able to rise to his feet after a few minutes.

A man in a suit can been seen lying by a table inside the store - it is not
clear if he is alive or dead but he does not move throughout the raid.

The clip was obtained by TV station France 2, who said it was a "face-to-face"
between Coulibaly and the assault team.

The raid left 32-year-old terror suspect Amedy Coulibaly dead as well as four
hostages. His 27-year-old girlfriend called Hayat Boumeddiene is now on the run.

Police believe Coulibaly was also responsible for the shooting of the Paris
policewoman yesterday.

 People 'run for their lives' from Paris supermarket hostage scene in new horror
footage

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     January 10, 2015 Saturday 10:55 AM GMT

Al Qaida threaten more attacks on France as terror death toll hits 17

BYLINE: Zoe Drewett

LENGTH: 456 words


CHILLING threats by al Qaida to launch more terror attacks on France are being
taken very seriously and one newspaper editor has revealed: "Every single French
Jew I know has left Paris."

After the siege at a Kosher store ended in a bloodbath, one of Britain's most
influential Jewish journalists said people are fleeing terror-hit Paris because
of growing anti-Semitism.

In a series of tweets, Stephen Pollard, editor of the Jewish Chronicle, said:
"Every single French Jew I know has either left or is actively working out how
to leave."

Gunman Amedy Coulibaly took as many as 20 people captive at a Jewish bakery on
Friday.

Police quickly surrounded the shop and a tense stand-off continued throughout
the day.

Islamic extremist Coulibaly was shot dead in the raid - along with four
hostages, reportedly killed at the bakery before it was stormed.

Reports say as many as 15 hostages were freed, including a young child, during
the siege at the store in Vincennes in the east of Paris.

Police are still hunting 26-year-old Hayat Boumeddiene, the wife of Coulibaly,
still at large just hours after the siege in the French capital.

Boumeddiene was thought to have fled the scene "acting as a hostage" in the
ruckus.

She is now France's most wanted woman.

A total of 17 people have been killed as a result of the attacks on Charlie
Hebdo's offices and subsequent sieges at the kosher bakery and a print works.

Terrorist group al Qaida has now threatened the country with more terror
attacks.

Stephen Pollard, Jewish Chronicle

French president Francois Hollande admitted the threats "weren't over" and
police suggested there could be a larger terrorist cell planning further
attacks.

Reports say a sharia official from al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula , Harith al
Nadhari, said in a video: "It is better for you to stop your aggression against
the Muslims, so perhaps you will live safely.

"If you refuse but to wage war, then wait for the glad tiding."

AQAP has claimed it directed brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi in the Charlie
Hebdo magazine massacre on Wednesday "as revenge for the honour" of the Prophet
Mohammed.

The Kouachi brothers were killed in a separate siege in a warehouse in
north-eastern Paris at almost the exact same time as the blast at the Kosher
supermarket.

It has since emerged supermarket killer Coulibaly "co-ordinated" with the
Charlie Hebdo killers and was a member of the Islamic State group.

brightcove.createExperiences; Related articles Most wanted woman in France:
Kosher supermarket 'widow' still on the run Kosher market siege ends in
bloodshed as four hostages are killed in Paris Terror brothers behind Charlie
Hebdo massacre shot dead as Paris siege ends

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     January 10, 2015 Saturday 8:36 AM GMT

'Religion belongs to Dark Ages': Atheist says terror attacks reinforce his
belief all faiths are nonsense;
FORMER trainee priest, ALEX MOONEY, claims terrorists are killing in the name of
a god that does not exist,

BYLINE: By dailyrecord

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 763 words


HOLY men calling out the names of 10 journalists before systematically killing
them one by one in a Paris office - in the name of a loving god.

Holy men taking seven hours to end the fledgling lives of 132 school children
and setting their teachers alight in front of them in Peshawar, Pakistan - in
the name of a loving god.

These two barbarous acts in the last month disgust all decent people and must
surely hasten an end to the absurdity of religion.

Sentient beings who promote ancient fears, rituals and superstition must learn
that their ludicrous beliefs are ultimately dangerous. Holy wars belong to the
Dark Ages - as does all religion.

There are no gods, no heaven, no hell, no miracles. There never has been. There
never will be. This is way beyond reasonable doubt now.

There is not one shred of evidence anywhere to prove the existence of a
supernatural entity.

Thanks to science the greatest story ever told is not in the Bible, or any
sacred scripture, but can be found from the Big Bang onwards.

If you must have faith then believe in that because it is more wondrous than
anything in holy texts.

But we still live in a world that is predominantly religious. At my Catholic
primary school in the 50s, pupils were told their faith was the only true one.

I recall one ridiculing Red Indians - as they were described then. A teacher
said they were savages and heathens because they prayed to totem poles. We
laughed with her.

In a science class, we were given moulds and shown how to make plaster statues.
By the time I was 15 I had been in a cloistered seminary for three years,
training to become a priest.

Hidden away from the world, we prayed a lot. One day I knelt before a statue of
Jesus and as I prayed a ­question disturbed me.

What is the difference between praying to a lump of wood or a mould of plaster?
There is none, of course. That epiphany was the end of my ­vocation - and my
faith in God.

Yet, 50 years on, blind belief still has a hold on billions of people who cling
to the hope of eternal life in a heaven.

Many are becoming fanaticised. One atrocity after another is done in the name of
protecting their god.

Religious leaders denounce the perpetrators as "not being of the true faith" -
until the next barbaric beheading is filmed live and fed to the world's social
media like some grotesque trailer for a reality show.

Apologists for religion blame fundamentalism for these despicable acts. Really?
Well the one thing fundamental to fundamentalism is belief in a god.

In America's Bible Belt millions of Christians, split into sects, are fleeced by
charlatans and snake-oil salesmen. TV and radio stations make a fortune from
pandering to deluded believers.

In a clinical environment some of those who swoon before the pastors and faith
healers would be diagnosed as having mental health issues.

Astonishingly, though, throughout the world atheists are facing ever increasing
persecution. A new report from the International Humanist and Ethical Union
shows that 19 countries punish their people for apostasy - in 12 of those the
sentence is death.

In Pakistan the death sentence can even be imposed for blasphemy where the
threshold is very low.

In all, 55 countries, including several Western ones, have laws against
­blasphemy. The sentence is prison in 39 countries and death in six.

People 'run for their lives' from Paris supermarket hostage scene in new horror
footage

In Saudi Arabia, a new law equates atheism with terrorism. And the ­Malaysian
prime minister Najib Razak branded humanists and ­secularists as no less than
deviants.

That this is happening in 2015 should trigger massive concern.

Yet politicians and governments shy away from confronting the issue in the hope
religion's followers and its ­influence will wither away as believers
increasingly look at science to explain the world rather than discredited
theology.

While the number of believers is falling in the West there is a danger that
those remaining will also become fanaticised as they are isolated.

Historians 100 years on will surely wonder why so many people were deluded and
perhaps conclude that some form of mass brainwashing was in play.

The truth is, we don't need scriptures or 10 commandments to be good folk.

Just be fair and decent in everything you do - and that applies to people,
businesses, politicians and ­governments.

If you want a better world then believe in that.

DO YOU AGREE WITH ALEX?  To have your say, email Record Readers via
­letters@dailyrecord.co.uk or text DRVIEW followed by your ­comments to 85858.
           Try Today's News Quiz

Quick Quiz: News 10/1/15

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                           January 10, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Killing in the name of a god that doesn't exist;
HOLY WARS FORMER TRAINEE PRIEST CLAIMS RELIGION BELONGS TO Dark Ages ; Atheist
says terror attacks reinforce his belief that all faiths are nonsense

BYLINE: ALEX MOONEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34,35

LENGTH: 764 words


HOLY men calling out the names of 10 journalists before systematically killing
them one by one in a Paris office - in the name of a loving god.

Holy men taking seven hours to end the fledgling lives of 132 school children
and setting their teachers alight in front of them in Peshawar, Pakistan - in
the name of a loving god.

These two barbarous acts in the last month disgust all decent people and must
surely hasten an end to the absurdity of religion.

Sentient beings who promote ancient fears, rituals and superstition must learn
that their ludicrous beliefs are ultimately dangerous. Holy wars belong to the
Dark Ages - as does all religion.

There are no gods, no heaven, no hell, no miracles. There never has been. There
never will be. This is way beyond reasonable doubt now.

There is not one shred of evidence anywhere to prove the existence of a
supernatural entity.

Thanks to science the greatest story ever told is not in the Bible, or any
sacred scripture, but can be found from the Big Bang onwards.

If you must have faith then believe in that because it is more wondrous than
anything in holy texts.

But we still live in a world that is predominantly religious. At my Catholic
primary school in the 50s, pupils were told their faith was the only true one.

I recall one ridiculing Red Indians - as they were described then. A teacher
said they were savages and heathens because they prayed to totem poles. We
laughed with her.

In a science class, we were given moulds and shown how to make plaster statues.
By the time I was 15 I had been in a cloistered seminary for three years,
training to become a priest.

Hidden away from the world, we prayed a lot. One day I knelt before a statue of
Jesus and as I prayed a question disturbed me.

What is the difference between praying to a lump of wood or a mould of plaster?
There is none, of course. That epiphany was the end of my vocation - and my
faith in God.

Yet, 50 years on, blind belief still has a hold on billions of people who cling
to the hope of eternal life in a heaven.

Many are becoming fanaticised. One atrocity after another is done in the name of
protecting their god.

Religious leaders denounce the perpetrators as "not being of the true faith" -
until the next barbaric beheading is filmed live and fed to the world's social
media like some grotesque trailer for a reality show.

Apologists for religion blame fundamentalism for these despicable acts. Really?
Well the one thing fundamental to fundamentalism is belief in a god.

In America's Bible Belt millions of Christians, split into sects, are fleeced by
charlatans and snake-oil www.salesmen.TV and radio stations make a fortune from
pandering to deluded believers.

In a clinical environment some of those who swoon before the pastors and faith
healers would be diagnosed as having mental health issues.

Astonishingly, though, throughout the world atheists are facing ever increasing
persecution. A new report from the International Humanist and Ethical Union
shows that 19 countries punish their people for apostasy - in 12 of those the
sentence is death.

In Pakistan the death sentence can even be imposed for blasphemy where the
threshold is very low.

In all, 55 countries, including several Western ones, have laws against
blasphemy. The sentence is prison in 39 countries and death in six.

In Saudi Arabia, a new law MOONEY equates atheism with terrorism. And the
Malaysian prime minister Najib Razak branded humanists and secularists as no
less than deviants.

That this is happening in 2015 should trigger massive concern.

Yet politicians and governments shy away from confronting the issue in the hope
religion's followers and its influence will wither away as believers
increasingly look at science to explain the world rather than discredited
theology.

While the number of believers is falling in the West there is a danger that
those remaining will also become fanaticised as they are isolated.

Historians 100 years on will surely wonder why so many people were deluded and
perhaps conclude that some form of mass brainwashing was in play.

The truth is, we don't need scriptures or 10 commandments to be good folk.

Just be fair and decent in everything you do - and that applies to people,
businesses, politicians and governments.

If you want a better world then believe in that.

? DO YOU AGREE WITH ALEX? To have your say, email Record Readers via
letters@dailyrecord.co.uk or text DRVIEW followed by your comments to 85858.

Historians will wonder why so many were deluded

and conclude it was some form of brainwashing And conclude it was some form of
brainwashing ALEX MOONEY

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SICKENING Scotland has not been spared from attacks by
extremistsHORRIFIC The Pakistan school massacre is part of a long line of
attacks by radical Muslims that includes bombings on the transport systems of
London and MadridDAY OF INFA NFANF MY Al-Qaeda's attack on the World Trade
Center killed 2700 and began a series of horrific attacks by Islamist terrorists
that continues today NEW YORK 2001

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 10, 2015 Saturday 8:15 PM GMT

France sieges: after Charlie Hebdo attack, how terror unfolded;
Details surrounding the dramatic events at printworks and kosher supermarket, as
three gunmen are killed

BYLINE: Alexandra Topping

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1533 words


As France awoke from the nightmare of three days of terror that left 20 people
including three gunmen dead and scores of others injured, new details have
emerged of the two dramatic sieges that ended with the deaths of three gunmen on
Friday.

From terrified customers of a kosher supermarket, who were hidden in a basement
coldroom by a Muslim employee while a gunman wielded a Kalashnikov in the shop
above, to the owner of the printworks in a small town north of Paris, who was
released after treating the wound of one of the brothers who opened fire at the
Charlie Hebdo offices on Wednesday, the tales behind the bloody drama that has
gripped France and the world emerged.

Journalists described how the Kouachi brothers and their accomplice Amedy
Coulibaly had communicated calmly throughout the day, while police gave further
details of the raids which saw their reign of terror brought to an end.

By 8.10am local time on Friday the Charlie Hebdo gunmen, by then named by French
police as the brothers Chérif and Saïd Kouachi, 32 and 34 respectively, had
broken cover. After unleashing a volley of bullets in the office of Charlie
Hebdo at 11.30am on Wednesday, murdering 12 people including eight journalists
and two policemen, the brothers had been on the run. On Thursday they drove
north through Picardy, robbing a petrol station in Villers-Cotterêts in the
Aisne region, north-east of Paris, driving off with assault rifles and rocket
launchers visible in the back of their getaway car.

A huge overnight manhunt in a large wooded area nearby proved fruitless but a
little after 8am on Friday the pair resurfaced, hijacking a grey Peugeot 206
from a teacher in the village of Montagny-Sainte-Félicité. Soon after, with the
country gripped by live coverage of the Swat teams, military helicopters and a
tank mobilised to the scene, there was a shootout between the suspects and
police on the N2 road.

With the full weight of the French security services bearing down upon them, the
brothers drove into an industrial estate in the small village of
Dammartin-en-Goële, 25 miles north-east of Paris.

Local residents were gripped with fear. "I heard three gunshots, boom, boom,
boom, in the industrial zone," a woman called Onya told Le Figaro. Minutes later
a neighbour called with the message: "It's happening next door, don't move." The
gendarmes went from house to house, curtains were closed, businesses shut, 1,000
schoolchildren were evacuated and the streets deserted.

As the Kouachi brothers holed themselves up in a printworks, tensions rose a
notch further amid reports that they had taken a hostage. Authorities said the
brothers took the owner hostage at the plant but let him go, reportedly after he
helped Saïd with a neck wound sustained in the shootout. Speaking to Channel 4
News on Saturday, Michel Catalano said the gunmen were polite: "When I saw them
I thought my life was going to end ... but they weren't aggressive."

Another man, Didier, described visiting the company and mistakenly shaking one
of the gunman's hands in the belief he was a police officer, only for the gunman
to tell him to leave with the words "we don't kill civilians".

It later emerged that the manager had told another employee, Lilian Lepere, a
26-year-old graphic designer, to hide from the brothers, and he had hidden
himself under a sink in the canteen at the business, according to the Paris
prosecutor, François Molins.

Terrified, Lepere nevertheless proved to be a vital secret weapon, communicating
with police via text, sending them "tactical elements such as his location
inside the premises" before he was finally released by police after the death of
the Kouachi brothers, said Molins.

He wasn't the only one communicating with the outside world. French television
news station BFMTV called Chérif Kouachi at 10am, who told them they had carried
out the Charlie Hebdo killings under the auspices of al-Qaida in Yemen. In an
interview released only after the end of the siege, Chérif said: "We just want
to say that we are the defenders of the prophet, and that I, Chérif Kouachi, was
sent by al-Qaida in Yemen. And that I went there and that it was Sheikh Anwar
al-Awlaki who financed me", adding that the visit had taken place before Awlaki
was killed.

Igor Sahiri, a journalist with BFMTV, told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme that
Chérif was "really prepared". He said: "It was somebody very serene. He was very
calm. It was just like a normal discussion, no rudeness. My feeling was that
this kind of man is ready to die."

Asked if he intended to kill more civilians, Chérif replied: "Did we kill any
civilians in the past two days when you were looking for us? Come on. We are not
killers, we are the defenders of the prophet, and we kill those who insult him."

While all eyes had been focused on Dammartin, suddenly at 1pm the focus was back
in the east of Paris where another fast-moving hostage situation was under way
at a kosher supermarket at Porte de Vincennes. Amedy Coulibaly, who had on
Wednesday shot 27-year-old traffic policewoman Clarissa Jean-Philippe in
Montrouge, south Paris, entered the Hyper Cacher, Kalashnikov blazing, probably
killing four people, according to the French prosecutor.

Another vast manhunt launched with police releasing details of Coulibaly, whose
DNA had been identified from a cloth found near the scene at Montrouge, and his
girlfriend Hayat Boumeddiene, 26, who is still at large.

BFMTV also spoke to Coulibaly, who revealed that the attacks had been planned in
conjunction with the Kouachi brothers and he had targeted the Paris shop
"because it was Jewish". Adding to the nightmare unfolding north of Paris, he
also revealed he was holding 16 hostages.

He said: "They must stop attacking the Islamic State, stop unveiling our women,
stop putting our brothers in prison for nothing at all. It is you who is
financing [the government]. You pay taxes."

According to RTL a hostage said they had to pay taxes, to which he replied: "You
do not have to. I do not pay taxes."

But what he didn't know was that an employee of the shop, a Muslim, had hidden
six people, including a three-year-old boy and his father and a month-old baby,
in the coldroom of the supermarket, quietly turning out the light and the
fridge.

The employee, named only as Lassana told BFMTV: "When they came running down
[into the basement] I opened the door of the fridge. Several came in with me. I
turned off the light and the fridge ... I closed the door and I said: 'You stay
quiet there. I'm going back out.'"

Contacting the world outside by telephone, they described being cold, but joked
about opening a bottle of wine because there were plenty. One of the prisoners,
Ilan, wrapped his coat around his small son to hide him. His mother, realising
he was hidden, passed on his number to police who used it to track his
whereabouts.

Another man caught up in the attack identified himself as Mickael B in his 30s
and described the moment Coulibaly entered the store.

"I heard a shot. It was very loud. I first thought it was a firecracker. Then as
I turned I saw a black man armed with two Kalashnikov rifles, I understood what
was happening. New shots rang out. I took my son by the neck and went to the
back of the store where there was a spiral staircase to the basement."

He said there were two coldrooms downstairs, but his did not lock and he was
ordered back upstairs by the gunman, who said: "I am Amedy Coulibaly, Malian and
Muslim. I belong to the Islamic State." In dramatic scenes, one man attempted to
grab a gun, only to be shot down and killed by Coulibaly. "He fired on the
person who did it and he died instantly," he said. "My son started to cry. He
wanted to go home."

There were a few brief hours of unbearable tension as news from the two scenes
fell quiet. But then, at 4.55pm local time and with no warning, a volley of
explosions and gunfire could be heard from the printworks at Dammartin-en-Goële
as the denouement of three days of terror began to unfold.

According to media reports, the two gunmen, perhaps aware of the Swat teams
closing in around them, charged out of the building with guns blazing before
being cut down by a volley of fire.

Moments later, security forces moved in on the kosher supermarket. BFMTV had
been speaking to Coulibaly, who had not hung up his phone. As he knelt to
prayer, the station were able to inform police of a lapse in his defences and
they struck hard using flashbangs and assault rifles to force entry to the
building. "The noise was deafening," Mickael B told Le Point. "He was dead. It
was over."

Live news streams around the world beamed dramatic scenes of terrified hostages
spilling on to the street under police protection. By 5.30pm, police had found
five bodies in the supermarket, including that of Coulibaly. Police confirmed
the Kouachi brothers, who begun the unprecedented attack with the assault on the
Charlie Hebdo offices three days earlier, had been killed.

Three days of terror had seen the mobilisation of more than 80,000 French police
and security personnel, the bloody attack on Charlie Hebdo, followed by
shootouts, chases and two dramatic sieges and, at the final count, the deaths of
17 innocent people.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 10, 2015 Saturday 7:04 PM GMT

Paris terrorist attacks: gunman's girlfriend evades French police;
Hayat Boumeddiene thought to be in Syria after leaving France days before
Charlie Hebdo attack and supermarket siege

BYLINE: Jon Henley, Kim Willsher and Anne Penketh in Paris

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1398 words


After three days of bloodshed that left 20 people including three gunmen dead, a
desperate police search seemed unlikely to find the partner of one of the three
Islamists shot and killed by police in twin raids on Friday.

Citing "very reliable police sources", French media, including Le Monde and
Agence France-Presse, reported that Hayat Boumeddiene, 26, flew from Madrid to
Istanbul on 2 January, accompanied by a man "known to French intelligence
services".

From there she reportedly crossed into Syria on 8 January, failing to use her
return ticket booked for 9 January.

About 1,500 troops were stationed around Paris on Saturday as police hunted the
"armed and dangerous" Boumeddiene, the girlfriend of Amedy Coulibaly, who died
on Friday evening when heavily armed elite forces stormed a Jewish supermarket
in Paris where he was holding at least 15 people hostage.

Coulibaly had earlier shot dead four shoppers, identified on Saturday as Yoav
Hattab, Philippe Braham, Yohan Cohen and François-Michel Saada, when he entered
the kosher store on the Avenue de la Porte de Vincennes on Friday lunchtime
brandishing two Kalashnikov assault rifles.

In a second, near-simultaneous assault with stun grenades and assault rifles,
French special forces also shot dead Chérif and Saïd Kouachi, the brothers
behind the killing of 12 people, including two police officers, at the satirical
magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris on Wednesday.

The president, François Hollande, called an emergency cabinet meeting on
Saturday morning, having urged "vigilance, unity and mobilisation" the night
before as he warned that the French people should be prepared for more violence.

In an emotional speech in Évry, where he is mayor, the prime minister, Manuel
Valls, said there would be "a before and an after", adding: "We must not lower
our guard. Terrorism tried to create splits, and damage us. It must not win."

As the hunt intensified for Boumeddiene, wanted by police in connection with
Coulibaly's fatal shooting of a female police officer in Montrouge on Thursday,
France's shell-shocked citizens rallied around the country in tribute to the
victims.

A reported 700,000 people poured on to the streets in cities including Nice,
Orléans, Rouen and Caen, with a reported 30,000 assembling in Pau, 45,000 in
Lille and 80,000 in Toulouse.

A mammoth march of national unity, expected to draw up to a million people, is
due to take place in Paris on Sunday, with up to 5,500 police and soldiers
standing guard, said the interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve.

The British prime minister, David Cameron, and many other national leaders,
including the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, and the Spanish and Italian
prime ministers, Mariano Rajoy and Matteo Renzi, are to join Hollande for the
occasion.

Paris's Jewish community was in shock. Teacher Isaac Berg was in the kosher
supermarket at the Porte de Vincennes 15 minutes before Friday's hostage-taking.

"We're afraid, but what more could the government do to protect us?" he said.
"Our schools and places of worship have already been guarded for the last two
years. People wouldn't want a police escort to go shopping."

Cazeneuve joined large crowds from the Jewish community who gathered outside the
supermarket to pay tribute to the four Jewish victims of the hostage-taking.

Accompanied by a number of ministers and lawmakers as well as the mayor of
Paris, Anne Hidalgo, he pledged to ensure "the protection of the Jews of
France". Cazeneuve said racism and antisemitism "have no place in the republic".

Many of those present held up sheets of paper marked with the Twitter hashtag
#jesuisjuif, reflecting the global solidarity with the victims of Wednesday's
attack expressed through the hashtag #jesuischarlie. Others carried the names of
the victims or laid flowers at the site.

In Montrouge, scene of Coulibaly's attack, the synagogue and Jewish school close
to where the shooting took place was under armed guard. Several residents said
they were convinced the building was his real target and that he had shot the
policewoman only after being stopped by a traffic accident which she was
investigating.

Boumeddiene is one of seven children. Now 26, she was placed in foster care aged
eight or nine with several of her siblings when their father, a delivery driver,
was unable to care for them following their mother's death in 1994.

She married Coulibaly - in a religious ceremony which she did not attend and
which is not recognised in French law - in July 2009. The couple lived together
in a flat in Bagneux, a Paris suburb, and Coulibaly had reportedly moved back in
with her after he was released from jail last year.

The Paris prosecutor, François Molins, revealed there had been "constant and
sustained" telephone contact - more than 500 calls last year - between
Boumeddiene and Izzana Hamyd, the wife of Chérif Kouachi.

Boumeddiene also reportedly accompanied Coulibaly and Chérif on visits to Djamel
Beghal, a radical preacher under house arrest in the Cantal in southern France.
Le Monde published photographs of her in a forest, wearing a niqab, apparently
training with a crossbow.

A devout Muslim, Boumeddiene lost her job as a supermarket cashier, Le Parisien
reported, because she insisted on wearing a niqab. In a 2010 police interview
obtained by Le Monde, she also told police she was doubtful about the true
extent of her partner's faith: "Amedy isn't really very religious. He likes
having fun."

Questions were starting to be asked about how the three men, all with known
jihadi links, had managed to evade intelligence agencies. The trio had been in
intensive telephone contact, police said. Valls said on Friday the twin attacks
indicated there had been "clear failings" in intelligence.

Chérif Kouachi, 32, was jailed for 18 months for his role in a network, of which
Coulibaly was also a member, that sent volunteers to fight alongside al-Qaida in
Iraq between 2003 and 2005. Saïd, 34, travelled in 2011 to Yemen, where he
received weapons training from al-Qaida Yemen.

Coulibaly, 32, reportedly met Chérif in prison. Both men were also implicated in
a 2013 plot to break an Algerian Islamist, Smaïn Aït Ali Belkacem, out of the
high-security prison in Paris where he was serving a life sentence.

BFMTV revealed on Friday night that it had been in telephone contact with Chérif
from inside the printing warehouse earlier in the day. In a calm, assured voice,
the gunman could be heard saying he had been sent by al-Qaida Yemen.

Saying it had not released the tapes earlier to avoid compromising the police
operations, BFM TV also replayed a conversation it had with Coulibaly in which
he said the attacks against Charlie Hebdo and the Montrouge police officer had
been synchronised. He also said he had targeted the Paris supermarket "because
it was Jewish", and claimed to be a member of Islamic State.

The family of Ahmed Merabet, one of the officers murdered outside the offices of
Charlie Hebdo, made an emotional appeal for calm. "You mustn't mix up extremism
with Muslims," said the officer's brother, Malek Merabet.

"The mad men have no colour nor religion. Islam is a religion of peace, of love.
My brother was a Muslim and he was killed by two terrorists, by false Muslims."

On the run since their deadly assault on Wednesday, the Kouachi brothers died in
a hail of bullets as they came out shooting from the warehouse of a small
printing business in Dammartin-en-Goële, about 25 miles north-east of Paris,
where they had been cornered since early morning on Friday.

They took the manager of the company hostage but let him go after he treated
Saïd for a neck injury. Another employee, Lilian Lepere, 27, stayed undetected
on the second floor of the warehouse throughout the siege, sending text messages
to the forces surrounding the building.

Similarly, up to five people, including a three-year-old boy, managed to survive
inside a refrigerator for five hours at the Porte de Vincennes supermarket, the
prosecutor's office said. Police were reportedly able to pinpoint their location
by their mobile phones.

Agence France-Presse reported that Coulibaly had telephoned friends during the
ensuing siege, demanding that they mount further attacks. RTL radio also
released a recording of him threatening hostages, demanding France "stop
attacking the Islamic State, stop unveiling our women, stop putting our brothers
in prison for nothing at all".

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 10, 2015 Saturday 9:24 AM GMT

Charlie Hebdo to publish 'Le journal des survivants' on 14 January;
Surviving staff hold first meeting since terrorist attack, as French government
and companies including Vivendi, Publicis and Canal+ pledge financial support

BYLINE: Jason Deans, Anne Penketh and Mark Sweney

SECTION: MEDIA

LENGTH: 688 words


Charlie Hebdo plans to publish a "journal des survivants" next week, as pledges
of money and other forms of support continue to pour in from media organisations
in France and elsewhere.

On Friday morning about 20 surviving Charlie Hebdo staff gathered at the offices
of French newspaper Libération, for their first editorial meeting since
Wednesday's terrorist attack on its Paris headquarters in which 12 people,
including eight of the title's journalists and two policemen, were killed.

Those at the table included the cartoonist Luz, who escaped the carnage because
he was late on Wednesday, reporter Laurent Léger, columnist Patrick Pelloux and
the paper's lawyer, Richard Malka.

Asked about the mood as he slipped outside the room, Malka simply said: "We're
organising our work."

The journalists asked for their privacy to be respected while they work on next
Wednesday's "special survival" edition, which will be limited to eight pages
instead of the usual 16. A million copies are to be printed, a huge increase on
its usual 60,000 print run.

The Libération building, located close to the Charlie Hebdo premises, is now
under armed police guard. Visitors are only allowed in with a specific
invitation from a staff member and have to leave via the adjacent car park.

Among the visitors on Friday was the prime minister, Manuel Valls, accompanied
by the culture minister, Fleur Pellerin, who has promised (EURO)1m (£780,000) to
the paper to guarantee its survival.

Guardian Media Group has pledged £100,000, while more funding has come from the
TV station Canal+ and Le Monde which has supplied the computers. Although
"structural" state subventions are provided to French media, satirical
publications have been excluded until now.

Asked about the irony of the state propping up the deliberately provocative
Charlie Hebdo, one Libération staff member said: "It's normal. This is a
democracy."

A defiant message was published on the Charlie Hebdo website on Thursday, after
it emerged that the title had been pledged (EURO)250,000 (£195,000) from the
Google-backed Digital Press Fund.

Under what has become the rallying cry for supporters of freedom of speech
following the shocking violence of Wednesday's attack, "Je suis Charlie", the
message stated: "Parce que le crayon sera toujours au dessus de lar barbarie...
parce que la liberté est un droit universal... parce que vous nous soutenez...

"Charlie Hebdo - Le journal des survivants - mercredi 14/1... Nous, Charlie -
sortirons votre journal mercredi prochain!"

The French media industry has rallied round the satirical weekly, with a public
declaration of support signed by print titles including Le Monde, Le Figaro, Les
Echos, L'Express, Paris Match and the news agency AFP.

Broadcasters including France 24, RTL, Arte, Nova, Radio France, Canal +, TF1
and France Télévisions have also signed up to the statement, which declared:
"We, the French media, stand ready to offer the human and material resources
necessary to keep Charlie Hebdo alive. We must rally to defend the freedom of
the press. And we will continue to defend it in the names of the fallen."

French media and telecoms company Vivendi - which owns pay-TV business Canal +
and Universal Music - is also drawing up plans to offer assistance to Charlie
Hebdo.

Publicis Groupe, the French company that is the world's third largest
advertising and marketing services company, has pledged to offer financial
support.

A spokeswoman for the company, which owns agencies including Saatchi & Saatchi,
said that funds, which have not yet been set, will come from Publicis and also
on a "personal level" from chief executive Maurice Levy.

· To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@theguardian.com or phone
020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard
on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark
clearly "for publication".

· To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian
on Twitter and Facebook.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 10, 2015 Saturday 4:47 PM GMT

Paris attacks: France to hold emergency meeting to avert future terror attacks;

World leaders including David Cameron, Angela Merkel and Matteo Renzi will join
in a unity rally in central Paris tomorrow

BYLINE: Lori Hannant, Elaine Ganley

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 758 words


Key members of the French government will meet today to decide on new measures
aimed at thwarting a repeat of the attacks in Paris that culminated in a
massacre of 12 people at a satirical newspaper, and a supermarket bloodbath that
left four hostages dead.

World leaders have telephoned President Francois Hollande to express their
personal sympathies. Germany's Angela Merkel, Britain's David Cameron as well as
Italy's Matteo Renzi, and Spain's Mariano Rajoy have agreed to join in a unity
rally in central Paris, to take place tomorrow.

Warning: Viewers may find this video distressing

With explosions and gunfire, security forces Friday ended the three days of
terror, killing the two al-Qaeda-linked brothers who staged a murderous rampage
at the Charlie Hebdo newspaper and an accomplice who seized hostages at a kosher
supermarket to try to help the brothers escape.

Twenty people are dead, including the three gunmen. A fourth suspect, Hayat
Boumeddiene - the common law wife of the market attacker - is still at large and
believed to be armed.

Al-Qaida's branch in Yemen said it directed the attack against the publication
Charlie Hebdo to avenge the honor of the Prophet Muhammad, a frequent target of
the weekly's satire.

The brothers were not unknown to authorities: One had a terrorism-related
conviction for ties to a network sending fighters to battle American forces in
Iraq, and both were on the US no-fly list, according to a US official.

Read more: Four hostages and gunman killed as police act swiftlyWho are GIGN?
Elite police force formed after 1972 OlympicsCornered and then killed, the last
stand of the fugitive brothersAl-Qaeda in Yemen claims it ordered attackFrench
Prime Minister admits 'clear failings' Police hunting for grocery shop gunman's
girlfriendAfter France's 9/11, this land will never be the same again

Hollande urged his nation to remain united and vigilant, and the city shut down
a central Jewish neighborhood following fears of more violence.

"The threats facing France are not finished," Hollande said. "We are a free
people who don't cave to pressure."

A member of the al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula gave a statement in English to
The Associated Press saying the group's leadership "directed the operations and
they have chosen their target carefully."

In pictures: Kosher grocery attack in Paris

The attack was in line with warnings from the late al-Qaeda leader Osama bin
Laden to the West about "the consequences of the persistence in the blasphemy
against Muslim sanctities," the member said, speaking on condition of anonymity
because the group's regulations do not permit him to give his name.

Links have emerged between the attackers in that Boumeddiene and the companion
of one of the Kouachi brothers had exchanged about 500 phone calls prior to the
attacks, Molins said.

He added that several people have been given preliminary charges in the
investigation. They include relatives of the three gunmen.

Both officials spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity because of an ongoing
investigation into Kouachi's stay in Yemen.

Both brothers were also on the US no-fly list, a senior US counterterrorism
official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the official was not
authorised to discuss foreign intelligence publicly.

The attacks in France as well as a hostage siege last month in Sydney and the
October killing of a solder near Canada's parliament prompted the US State
Department to issue a global travel warning for Americans. It also cites an
increased risk of reprisals against US and Western targets for the US-led
intervention against Islamic State militants in Syria and Iraq.

Authorities around Europe have warned of the threat posed by the return of
Western jihadis trained in warfare. France counts at least 1,200 citizens in the
war zone in Syria - headed there, returned or dead. Both the Islamic State group
and al-Qaeda have threatened France, home to Western Europe's largest Muslim
population.

The publication Charlie Hebdo had long drawn threats for its depictions of
Islam, although it also lampooned other religions and political figures. It had
caricatured the Prophet Muhammad, and a sketch of Islamic State's leader was the
last tweet sent by the irreverent newspaper minutes before the attack.

Eight journalists, two police officers, a maintenance worker and a visitor were
killed in the newspaper attack, including the paper's editor. Charlie Hebdo
plans a special edition next week, produced in the offices of another paper.

AP

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 10, 2015 Saturday 4:35 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo: Paris attack brothers' campaign of terror can be traced back to
Algeria in 1954;
Algeria is the post-colonial wound that still bleeds in France

BYLINE: Robert Fisk

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 1571 words


Algeria. Long before the identity of the murder suspects was revealed by the
French police - even before I heard the names of Cherif and Said Kouachi - I
muttered the word "Algeria" to myself. As soon as I heard the names and saw the
faces, I said the word "Algeria" again. And then the French police said the two
men were of "Algerian origin".

For Algeria remains the most painful wound within the body politic of the
Republic - save, perhaps, for its continuing self-examination of Nazi occupation
- and provides a fearful context for every act of Arab violence against France.
The six-year Algerian war for independence, in which perhaps a million and a
half Arab Muslims and many thousands of French men and women died, remains an
unending and unresolved agony for both peoples. Just over half a century ago, it
almost started a French civil war.

Read more: Four hostages and gunman killed as police act swiftlyWho are GIGN?
Elite police force formed after 1972 OlympicsCornered and then killed, the last
stand of the fugitive brothersAl-Qaeda in Yemen claims it ordered attack

Maybe all newspaper and television reports should carry a "history corner", a
little reminder that nothing - absolutely zilch - happens without a past.
Massacres, bloodletting, fury, sorrow, police hunts ("widening" or "narrowing"
as sub-editors wish) take the headlines. Always it's the "who" and the "how" -
but rarely the "why". Take the crime against humanity in Paris this week - the
words "atrocity" and "barbarity" somehow diminish the savagery of this act - and
its immediate aftermath.

We know the victims: journalists, cartoonists, cops. And how they were killed.
Masked gunmen, Kalashnikov automatic rifles, ruthless, almost professional
nonchalance. And the answer to "why" was helpfully supplied by the murderers.
They wanted to avenge "the Prophet" for Charlie Hebdo's irreverent and (for
Muslims) highly offensive cartoons. And of course, we must all repeat the
rubric: nothing - nothing ever - could justify these cruel acts of mass murder.
And no, the killers cannot call on history to justify their crimes.

In pictures: Charlie Hebdo suspects siege

But there's an important context that somehow got left out of the story this
week, the "history corner" that many Frenchmen as well as Algerians prefer to
ignore: the bloody 1954-62 struggle of an entire people for freedom against a
brutal imperial regime, a prolonged war which remains the foundational quarrel
of Arabs and French to this day.

The desperate and permanent crisis in Algerian-French relations, like the
refusal of a divorced couple to accept an agreed narrative of their sorrow,
poisons the cohabitation of these two peoples in France. However Cherif and Said
Kouachi excused their actions, they were born at a time when Algeria had been
invisibly mutilated by 132 years of occupation. Perhaps five million of France's
six and a half million Muslims are Algerian. Most are poor, many regard
themselves as second-class citizens in the land of equality.

READ MORENorway's Christians didn't have to apologise for Anders Breivik, and
it's the same for Muslims now

Like all tragedies, Algeria's eludes the one-paragraph explanation of news
agency dispatches, even the shorter histories written by both sides after the
French abandoned Algeria in 1962.

For unlike other important French dependencies or colonies, Algeria was regarded
as an integral part of metropolitan France, sending representatives to the
French parliament in Paris, even providing Charles de Gaulle and the Allies with
a French "capital" from which to invade Nazi-occupied north Africa and Sicily.

Warning: Viewers may find this video distressing

More than 100 years earlier, France had invaded Algeria itself, subjugating its
native Muslim population, building small French towns and chateaux across the
countryside, even - in an early 19th-century Catholic renaissance which was
supposed to "re-Christianise" northern Africa - converting mosques into
churches.

The Algerian response to what today appears to be a monstrous historical
anachronism varied over the decades between lassitude, collaboration and
insurrection. A demonstration for independence in the Muslim-majority and
nationalist town of Sétif on VE Day - when the Allies had liberated the captive
countries of Europe - resulted in the killing of 103 European civilians. French
government revenge was ruthless; up to 700 Muslim civilians - perhaps far more -
were killed by infuriated French "colons" and in bombardment of surrounding
villages by French aircraft and a naval cruiser. The world paid little
attention.

But when a full-scale insurrection broke out in 1954 - at first, of course,
ambushes with few French lives lost and then attacks on the French army - the
sombre war of Algerian liberation was almost preordained. Beaten in that classic
post-war anti-colonial battle at Dien Bien Phu, the French army, after its
debacle in 1940, seemed vulnerable to the more romantic Algerian nationalists
who noted France's further humiliation at Suez in 1956.

What the historian Alistair Horne rightly described in his magnificent history
of the Algerian struggle as "a savage war of peace" took the lives of hundreds
of thousands. Bombs, booby traps, massacres by government forces and National
Liberation Front guerrillas in the "bled" - the countryside south of the
Mediterranean - led to the brutal suppression of Muslim sectors of Algiers, the
assassination, torture and execution of guerrilla leaders by French
paratroopers, soldiers, Foreign Legion operatives - including German ex-Nazis -
and paramilitary police. Even white French sympathisers of the Algerians were
"disappeared". Albert Camus spoke out against torture and French civil servants
were sickened by the brutality employed to keep Algeria French.

De Gaulle appeared to support the white population and said as much in Algiers -
"Je vous ai compris," he told them - and then proceeded to negotiate with FLN
representatives in France. Algerians had long provided the majority of France's
Muslim population and in October 1961 up to 30,000 of them staged a banned
independence rally in Paris - in fact, scarcely a mile from the scene of last
week's slaughter - which was attacked by French police units who murdered, it is
now acknowledged, up to 600 of the protesters.

Algerians were beaten to death in police barracks or thrown into the Seine. The
police chief who supervised security operations and who apparently directed the
1961 massacre was none other than Maurice Papon - who was, almost 40 years
later, convicted for crimes against humanity under Petain's Vichy regime during
the Nazi occupation.

The Algerian conflict finished in a bloodbath. White "pied noir" French
colonists refused to accept France's withdrawal, supported the secret OAS in
attacking Algerian Muslims and encouraged French military units to mutiny. At
one point, De Gaulle feared that French paratroopers would try to take over
Paris.

When the end came, despite FLN promises to protect French citizens who chose to
stay in Algeria, there were mass killings in Oran. Up to a million and a half
white French men, women and children - faced with a choice of "the coffin or the
suitcase" - left for France, along with thousands of loyal Algerian "harki"
fighters who fought with the army but were then largely abandoned to their
terrible fate by De Gaulle. Some were forced to swallow their own French
military medals and thrown into mass graves.

But the former French colonists, who still regarded Algeria as French - along
with an exhausted FLN dictatorship which took over the independent country -
instituted a cold peace in which Algeria's residual anger, in France as well as
in the homeland, settled into long-standing resentment. In Algeria, the new
nationalist elite embarked on a hopeless Soviet-style industrialisation of their
country. Former French citizens demanded massive reparations; indeed, for
decades, the French kept all the drainage maps of major Algerian cities so that
the new owners of Algeria had to dig up square miles of city streets every time
a water main burst.

And when the Algerian civil war of the 1980s commenced - after the Algerian army
cancelled a second round of elections which Islamists were sure to win - the
corrupt FLN "pouvoir" and the Muslim rebels embarked on a conflict every bit as
gruesome as the Franco-Algerian war of the 1950s and 1960s. Torture,
disappearances, village massacres all resumed. France discreetly supported a
dictatorship whose military leaders salted away millions of dollars in Swiss
banks.

Algerian Muslims returning from the anti-Soviet war in Afghanistan joined the
Islamists in the mountains, killing some of the few remaining French citizens in
Algeria. And many subsequently left to fight in the Islamist wars, in Iraq and
later Syria.

Enter here the Kouachi brothers, especially Chérif, who was imprisoned for
taking Frenchmen to fight against the Americans in Iraq. And the United States,
with French support, now backs the FLN regime in its continuing battle against
Islamists in Algeria's deserts and mountain forests, arming a military which
tortured and murdered thousands of men in the 1990s.

As an American diplomat said just before the 2003 invasion of Iraq, the United
States "has much to learn" from the Algerian authorities. You can see why some
Algerians went to fight for the Iraqi resistance. And found a new cause...

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 10, 2015 Saturday 10:19 PM GMT

French National Front leader Marine Le Pen calls for return of death penalty as
far-right party is expected to receive poll boost in wake of terror attacks

BYLINE: JENNIFER NEWTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 564 words



     ·    Marine Le Pen says France should have death penalty in 'legal arsenal'


     ·    Pledged a referendum on capital punishment if she were to be elected
     ·    Comes after she said 'Islamic fundamentalism' had declared war on
          France
     ·    Her party the Front National is expected to receive higher poll
          ratings
     ·    France's ruling Socialists have tried to ban National Front from a
          peace march


The French National Front leader has called for a return of the death penalty in
the wake of the Paris terror attacks as her far-right party is expected to
receive a boost in the polls.

Marine Le Pen said she believed that France should have corporal punishment in
their 'legal arsenal' and pledged that if she were to be elected president in
2017, she would offer a national referendum on the issue.

It comes after she said that 'Islamic fundamentalism' had declared war on France
and she demanded strong, effective action to tackle it.

Miss Le Pen's resurgent Front National is expected to be receive higher poll
ratings following the attack on the Paris office of satirical magazine Charlie
Hebdo on Wednesday after they published cartoons depicting the prophet Muhammad.

Speaking to French broadcaster France 2, she said: 'I have always said that I
would offer French citizens the possibility to express themselves on the issue
through a referendum.'

However, while she was careful to draw a distinction between Muslim citizens who
share French values and 'those who kill in the name of Islam', her father,
National Front founder Jean-Marie Le Pen, and her deputy, Florian Philippot,
were less cautious.

Mr Philippot told RTL radio: 'Anyone who says Islamist radicalism has nothing to
do with immigration is living on another planet.'

Meanwhile, it has been reported that France's ruling Socialists have tried to
ban the National Front from a peace march for Charlie Hebdo shooting victims.

French president Francois Hollande's Socialists called this week for a show of
national unity on Sunday in support of Charlie Hebdo and media freedom.

But the mood of unity lasted just hours, as the march's organiser said there
would be 'no room' for the anti-EU, anti-immigration National Front.

Miss Le Pen's party won the highest score of any in European parliamentary
elections last May and several polls suggest she could reach the runoff round of
a 2017 presidential election.

'The idea of national unity has been totally undermined, and we will face up to
the consequences,' Le Pen told Le Monde newspaper, calling the move to exclude
her from a group of politicians to lead the march a 'pitiful political
manoeuvre'.

Socialist Party leader Jean-Christophe Cambadelis later qualified the ban saying
'anyone who wanted to and felt concerned' could participate.

Mr Hollande met with Le Pen as well as other party leaders at his offices, as
hundreds of police faced off with suspected shooters in an industrial facility
northeast of Paris.

But analysts say that Le Pen is set to reap gains from her exclusion and
willingness to use strong words to describe the attack, ahead of two local
elections this year in which the Socialists are seen suffering further defeats.

'We're at a tipping point,' said Francois Miquet-Marty, an analyst for polling
agency Viavoice.

'French people who felt sympathetic to the National Front but might have been on
the fence are now being forced to choose, which may well accelerate a movement
toward Le Pen.'

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 10, 2015 Saturday 2:41 PM GMT

Madonna accused of using Paris terrorist attack to promote her album Rebel Heart

BYLINE: SHYAM DODGE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: TV&SHOWBIZ

LENGTH: 607 words


Madonna is being accused by many online commentators of using the recent
terrorist attack in Paris to promote her album Rebel Heart.

The 56-year-old posted a series of photos to her Instagram to offer support
after 12 people were killed in the gun attack on French satirical magazine
Charlie Hebdo's Paris offices.

But as Madonna offered encouraging words in the captions for her social media
images, she also provided some hashtags which were in promotion of her new
album.

Scroll down for video

The controversy comes on the heels of the pop icon likening the recent leak of
her album to a 'form of terrorism' - her comments coming just after the world
was left in shock following the Sydney Siege.

Madonna posted a viral image 'Je suis Charlie' (I am Charlie) with the caption:
'These are very scary times we are living in. Ignorance breeds Intolerance and
fear. We can only fight darkness with light! We are all Charlie!
#revolutionoflove [heart] #rebelhearts.'

Revolution Of Love is a track off her album Rebel Hearts, both of which she used
as hashtags at the end of her post.

These are very scary times we are living in. Ignorance breeds Intolerance and
fear. We can only fight darkness with light! We are all Charlie!
#revolutionoflove [#x2764][#xfe0f]#rebelhearts

Une photo publiée par Madonna (@madonna) le Janv. 7, 2015 at 6:19 PST

We must respect AlL religions! But we must also RESPECT human life!! Killing in
the name of G*D is man's idea not G*D's!!!!#livingforlove
[#x2764][#xfe0f]#rebelheart

Een foto die is geplaatst door Madonna (@madonna) op Jan 7, 2015 at 6:40 PST

Another image on her Instagram is of Parisians taking to the streets in
solidarity following the Paris attack.

She captioned the photo: 'We must respect all religions!' she wrote. 'we must
also RESPECT human life!! Killing in the name of G*D is man's idea not
G*D's!!!!#livingforlove #rebelheart'.

Many celebrity blogs and online fans have found the posts to be in poor taste,
including Bustle 's Maitri Mehta, who wrote:  'Madonna has been aggressive in
the promotion for her new album, but I am surprised that she didn't realize - or
no one advised her - that in the wake of such a senseless attack, self-promotion
is definitely prohibited.'

Madonna has most recently been in the press for posting Instagram photos of
Martin Luther King Jr. and Nelson Mandela that were altered to look like her own
image on her new album.

The images caused furor online as many believed she was comparing herself to
these revolutionaries and civil rights leaders.

In a statement on her official Facebook page, Madonna said: 'I'm sorry. I'm not
comparing my self to anyone. I'm admiring and acknowledging there Rebel Hearts
(sic)'.

The Queen of Pop's cover for the album Rebel Heart is a close-up of her face
with black string on it, which has been the subject of countless Internet memes,
with other iconic artists Photoshopped into the same template.

She added: 'This is niether a crime or an insult or racist! I also did it with
Michael jaclson and frida khalo and marilyn monroe (sic).'

'Am I saying I am them NO I'm saying they are Rebel Hearts too. And I didn't do
it My fans did And I just re posted those photos My fans aren't racist either If
they put me in the same category as these other people Thank you.'

And it has been a busy and very controversial past few weeks for the star.

When Madonna, in December, likened her album leak to terrorism it came during
the horrific week when the deadly hostage crisis in Sydney and the devastating
Taliban school massacre in Pakistan occurred.

So it seemed particularly insensitive when Madonna likened the leak of her
upcoming album to a 'form of terrorism.'

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 10, 2015 Saturday 3:20 AM GMT

US issues global travel warning saying terror attacks against Americans are
growing

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS and CHARLENE ADAMS FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 329 words



     ·    The United States has issued a global travel warning after recent
          terror attacks in France, Australia and Canada
     ·    The alert by the U.S. Department of State comes hours after French
          police killed three hostage-takers in a pair of incidents
     ·    The warning cites the recent attack on Charlie Hebdo, ISIS threats,
          and other threats U.S. citizens might face abroad


The United States has issued a global travel warning after recent terror attacks
in France, Australia and Canada.

The  alert  by the U.S. Department of State comes hours after French police
killed three hostage-takers in a pair of incidents.

Two of the men, Said and Cherif Kouachi, are believed to be responsible for
Wednesday's attack on a satirical magazine in Paris, Charlie Hebdo.

Scroll down for video

Twelve people were killed in that assault, France's deadliest terror incident in
decades.

The Yemen branch of al-Qaeda has claimed responsibility for the attack

The State Department's warning says attacks against Americans are becoming
increasingly prevalent.

'Recent terrorist attacks, whether by those affiliated with terrorist entities,
copycats, or individual perpetrators, serve as a reminder that U.S. citizens
need to maintain a high level of vigilance,' the Department said Friday.

It also cites an increased risk of reprisals against U.S. and Western targets
for the U.S.-led intervention against Islamic State militants in Syria and Iraq.

The bulletin notes the high 'degree of sophistication and advance weapons
handling,' the terrorists displayed in the attack on Charlie Hebdo,  NBC
reports.

The notice also provides information about threats that U.S. citizens might face
abroad, citing potential threats in Europe, the middle east, Africa, and south,
central, and east Asia.

The bulletin stated that the attacker's 'confidence' in the attack indicated
prior training.

The warning also cited last month's hostage standoff at a Sydney cafe and the
October killing of a soldier near Canada's parliament.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     January 10, 2015 Saturday 12:03 PM BST

TIMELINE OF FRANCE TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Press Association reporters

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 2465 words


The Paris terror which resulted in the death of at least 17 innocent people came
to its denouement when police shot three terrorists as they stormed their bolt
holes on Friday evening. Yet with one of the suspects still on the run, and
security across France heightened, the search for answers remains. Here is a
timeline of the events in the French capital:

Wednesday January 7:

10.28am - The Charlie Hebdo Twitter page is updated with a cartoon of Islamic
State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. In it he wishes everyone ``good health''.

10.57am - The AFP news agency reports shots have been fired at the French weekly
magazine, on Boulevard Richard Lenoir.

11.17am - Eyewitness accounts of the attack emerge. Video footage filmed by some
shows the gunmen. In one clip they murder an injured police officer.

11.22am - AFP confirms the first death as a result of the shooting. Three
minutes later it confirms the death toll has risen to 10.

11.31am - President Francois Hollande is en-route to the magazine's offices
shortly, officials say

11.36am - The death toll is increased to 11 and then to 12.

11.46am - Paris is put on maximum alert.

11.49am - Prime Minister David Cameron condemns the attack: ``The murders in
Paris are sickening. We stand with the French people in the fight against terror
and defending the freedom of the press.''

11.54am - Mr Hollande, in an address near the scene, says: ``We fight threats
and we will punish the attackers.''

11.59am - The first tweet is posted containing the hashtag #JeSuisCharlie in
solidarity with the victims, the magazine and its supporters.

12.26pm - French officials confirm gunmen who carried out the attack are still
at large. At least two criminals are believed to be involved.

12.38pm - The White House condemns the Paris attack in the ``strongest possible
terms''.

1.30pm - AFP says the dead include three cartoonists and editor-in-chief
Stephane Charbonnier, known as Charb.

2.13pm - French interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve says ``three criminals''
were involved in the attack. They remain at large.

Throughout the evening crowds gather at London's Trafalgar Square, at Place de
la Republique in Paris and elsewhere around the world for vigils to remember
those murdered. Many hold placards reading ``Je Suis Charlie''.

10pm - Heavily armed French police raid an apartment in Reims, east of Paris.

Thursday January 8:

1.41am - reports emerge that the youngest suspect, 18-year-old Hamyd Mourad, has
handed himself into police after seeing his name linked to the massacre. Soon
afterwards the French police release photographs of the remaining two suspects -
brothers Said Kouachi and Cherif Kouachi.

4.40am - Hundreds of people attend rallies of solidarity in America, chanting
``I am Charlie''. Throughout the night cartoonists across the world put pen to
paper, creating poignant tributes and messages of defiance.

6.58am - French prime minister Manuel Valls said that several people have been
held overnight. He adds that the two subjects still being hunted had been known
to security services.

8.45am - AFP reports there has been a second shooting - two people, including a
policewoman, have been critically wounded after a man fired on them with an
automatic rifle south of Paris.

9.57am - The policewoman shot near Paris dies. AFP reports that a number of
mosques in France have been attacked since the shooting at the newspaper
offices.

10.25am - The two suspected gunmen in the magazine shooting spotted at a petrol
station in northern France.

11am - Crowds gather at Notre Dame, and across the world, to hold a minute's
silence.

1.32pm - AFP reports that jihadist flags and Molotov cocktails were found in a
car abandoned by the Paris attackers.

1.50pm - French authorities announce that they are treating the shooting of the
policewoman as a ``terrorist attack''.

3.30pm - Highest security alert extended to north of Paris where suspects were
spotted. Searches continue throughout the afternoon.

8pm - Eiffel Tower goes dark in tribute to Charlie Hebdo attack victims. Teams
of heavily armed officers scour the dense woodland in the 13,000 hectare Foret
de Retz around 50 miles outside Paris.

10pm - A group of core al Qaida terrorists in Syria is planning ``mass casualty
attacks'' against the West, the director general of MI5 Andrew Parker warns.

Friday January 9:

8.20am - Reports that shots have been fired in a car chase north-east of Paris.

8.45am - Bernard Cazeneuve confirms that a major operation is under way in
Dammartin-en-Goele where police helicopters have been deployed.

8.50am - Reports that two suspects have taken a hostage in the Creation Tendance
Decouverte building, in an industrial estate in Dammartin-en-Goele, near Charles
de Gaulle airport.

9am - Reports emerge that police have entered negotiations with the Kouachi
brothers.

9.20am - French authorities confirm that shots were fired at a roadblock but
deny reports of injuries.

9.39am - AFP reports that French police have identified a suspect in the
policewoman shooting. Residents in the Dammartin-en-Goele are being asked to
stay indoors and turn off the lights. Nearby schools have been put on lockdown.

9.55am - Charles de Gaulle airport - roughly eight miles away - partially closed
as the police operation in Dammartin-en-Goele continues.

11.17am - AFP reports that the Paris policewoman killing suspect is now being
linked to the Charlie Hebdo massacre brothers

11.35am - Yves Albarello, MP for Seine-et-Marne, tells French broadcaster i@tele
the hostage takers have declared in a phonecall that they want to ``die as
martyrs''.

12.10am - The French interior ministry says police are trying to establish
contact with the hostage takers.

12.26pm Reports emerge that a separate shooting incident has taken place in
eastern Paris. It is thought that the gunman in the policewoman shooting has
taken hostages in a kosher supermarket.

12.55pm - AFP reports that at least five people have been taken hostage.

1.19pm - Reports are emerging that at least two people have been killed in a
kosher supermarket in Porte de Vincennes.

It is thought that the gunman armed with multiple Kalashnikovs has links with
the Kouachi brothers.

The BBC reports that he told forces outside the store ``you know who I am'' and
told them to end the siege in Dammartin-en-Goele.

1.32pm - French police release mugshots of a man and woman linked to the
policewoman killing.

1.34pm The Board of Deputies of British Jews advises people to follow the
Twitter account of its French counterpart, the Conseil Representatif des
Institutions Juives de France (Crif) .

A spokesman says they ``stand with the French Jewish community in steadfast
solidarity at this difficult time''.

According to the Jewish Year Book, there are 380,000 Jewish people in Paris.

1.35pm - Police name the grocery store hostage-taker as 32-year-old Amedy
Coulibaly, who they believe was also responsible for the shooting of the Paris
policewoman.

They also say they are hunting a 26-year-old woman called Hayat Boumeddiene in
connection with the killing.

2.06pm - AFP reports that Paris hostage-taker ``knows'' one Charlie Hebdo
killer.

2.06pm - There are reports of a third shooting at the Trocadero near the Eiffel
Tower. Police are pictured with their firearms unholstered.

2.27pm - French interior ministry says Trocadero incident is a false alarm.

The BBC quotes Cherif Kouachi's lawyer telling the terror suspect to surrender.

Vincent Ollivier said: ``I would have only one piece of advice to give Mr
Kouachi - it would be to hand himself over to police authorities so that all
light can be shed on this case.''

Police have called for shops on Rue des Rosiers, in the Jewish quarter of Paris,
to close early ``as a precaution''.

2.30pm - Europe 1 reports that a woman received a phone call from her mother,
who is being held hostage in the shop in Porte de Vincennes.

She said: ``She called me and told me 'I am in the shop, I love you'.

``I am scared. Someone told me there have been two deaths. No one has told me if
it is my mother or not.''

2.47pm - Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman says Israel is concerned
over ``terror offensive'' in France.

2.57pm - AFP reports Sunday's meeting between Francois Hollande and Angela
Merkel has been postponed.

3.08pm - Schools near the kosher supermarket where five hostages are being held
remain closed. Parents are being advised not to travel into the area to collect
them.

3.25pm - Gunman in kosher supermarket has threatened to kill hostages if police
storm the building where Charlie Hebdo massacre suspects are holed up, an
official reveals.

3.39pm - It emerges that the Kouachi brothers, who are well-known for holding
jihadist views, were on a British watch and no-fly list to prevent them from
entering the UK or passing through a British airport.

3.55pm - Gunshots and explosions have been heard at the siege in
Dammartin-en-Goele. Smoke can be seen above the building where the Kouachi
brothers have been holed up for around seven hours.

3.59pm - Flashes of light accompany the rapid gunfire in dramatic scenes which
last for about 10 seconds.

Minutes before the explosions, balaclava-clad officers are seen moving towards
the building where the Charlie Hebdo massacre suspects are reported to be
holding one person hostage.

Dressed in black, they appear to leave the roof of the building shortly
afterwards.

4.01pm - AFP reports that official sources have said police launched an assault
on the printworks where the Charlie Hebdo suspects were holed up.

4.08pm - It is not yet known what the result of the assault was. Emergency
vehicles, including ambulances, are flooding the area as smoke obscures the
building from view. Sirens can be heard blaring in the background.

4.11pm - Six loud and very quick explosions heard at the kosher supermarket in
Paris where a gunman was holding five people hostage.

4.16pm - Ambulances and fire engines seen rushing to the scene in Paris. The
cordon appears to have been made larger as people are being asked to move back.

4.18pm - Local media reports that the Kouachi brothers have been killed in the
raid on the printworks factory.

Sirens are still ringing out in Dammartin-en-Goele, and there appears to have
been a sudden and dramatic increase in activity in the immediate area.

4.20pm - Reports emerge that the Kouachi brother's hostage has been freed, and
that several hostages who were being held in the kosher supermarket have also
been released.

4.26pm - Police at supermarket siege in eastern Paris shout ``get down!'' and
``we've got him'' amid gunfire exchanges, BFM-TV reports.

Judicial police have reportedly told local broadcaster Europe1 that the
supermarket hostage taker and suspected policewoman murderer was killed in the
raid.

4.33pm - Amedy Coulibaly is believed to have been shot dead by police who
stormed the building as dusk fell in Paris. It appears the assault took place
around 10 minutes after the raid in Dammartin-en-Goele.

Images are now emerging of a group of people - believed to be the supermarket
hostages - being escorted from the building.

They walked hurriedly and with arms around each other as they made their way to
safety.

4.44pm - More dramatic pictures from the scene of the siege show bright orange
flames engulfing the Paris supermarket as police storm the building. Another
image shows a small boy - dressed in beige trousers and a navy blue t-shirt -
being carried away.

4.54pm - There is still a lot of activity at the scene in Paris, with emergency
services flooding the surrounding streets.

Local reports claim that four hostages who were being held in the supermarket
have died.

5.07pm - It appears as if the roads around the Dammartin-en-Goele building where
the Kouachi brothers had been holed up, have now reopened. They had been closed
since around 8.20am when it was first reported that the men behind the Charlie
Hebdo massacre had taken a hostage.

Although officials can still be seen directing cars, traffic is now flowing
through the area.

5.15pm - French President Francois Hollande will address the nation at 7pm.

Security sources have reportedly said that four people were ``critically
wounded'' when police stormed into the shop in Paris, bringing the siege to a
bloody end.

5.45pm - Reports from Paris suggest a second male hostage-taker at the
supermarket may have escaped from the stand-off. Meanwhile, Boumeddiene's
whereabouts remain unknown.

5.50pm: It is announced that Mr Cameron will join Mr Hollande at a national
unity rally in Paris on Sunday.

6.20pm: Mr Cazeneuve tells reporters: ``The events show how great the challenge
we are facing is, and the violence the terrorists are capable of.''

6.20pm: It emerges that two people are being held hostage by a gunman in a
jewellery store in the southern French city of Montpellier. It is unclear
whether the event is linked to the terrorist incidents around Paris.

6.47pm - UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon says he is relieved that the French
terrorists have been killed and urged all people around the world ``to enhance
the level of tolerance and respect for the belief and religions and tradition of
others''.

The UN chief says: ``This is a purely unacceptable terrorist attack,
criminality. This kind of criminality must be brought to justice in the name of
humanity.''

6.55pm - President Mr Hollande calls for France to ``remain vigilant'' as he
praises the ``courage, bravery and efficiency'' of the police forces that
brought the hostage situations to an end in ``one movement, with the same
result, to save lives''.

7.08pm - An Israeli official says 15 hostages have been freed from the
supermarket in Paris.

7.20pm: US president Barack Obama says he is hopeful that the immediate threat
posed by terrorists in Paris has been now resolved. He says the situation
remains fluid and that the French government continues to face the threat of
terrorism.

8.55pm - A member of al Qaida's branch in Yemen says the group directed the
attack on Charlie Hebdo.

10.20pm - Paris prosecutor Francois Molins says an employee at the printing
works where the Kouachi brothers were in Dammartin was hiding on the second
floor underneath a sink. The brothers did not realise there was another person
hiding in the warehouse. He also states Coulibaly and his girlfriend,
Boumeddiene, spoke more than 500 times to the Kouachi brothers over the phone.

Saturday January 10:

6.00am - French police say they are continuing to search for Boumeddiene.

9.30am - Broadcaster RTL releases extracts of Coulibaly ranting at hostages in
the kosher store, captured after the hostage-taker unwittingly failed to hang up
following a phone call.

He said: ``They must stop attacking the Islamic State, stop unveiling our women,
stop putting our brothers in prison for nothing at all.''

11.20am - French Prime Minister Manuel Valls says the country must ``never lower
(its) guard'' against terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                     January 10, 2015 Saturday 4:22 PM GMT

'We are declaring war against you, the terrorists': Hackers vow to target terror
groups after Paris attacks

BYLINE: Standard Reporter

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 269 words


Hacker group Anonymous have vowed to target terrorist groups in the wake of the
attacks in Paris.

The activists released a video condemning the gun attack at the satirical
magazine Charlie Hebdo which left 12 people dead.

In the clip, which was uploaded to the group's Belgian YouTube account, a figure
wearing the group's Guy Fawkes mask and a hood says in French in an
electronically-distorted voice: "We are declaring war against you, the
terrorists."

Sitting at a desk and reading from a piece of paper, the figure says the group
will track down and close all accounts on social networks related to terrorists
to avenge those killed.

The hashtag #OpChalieHebdo - presumably meaning Operation Charlie Hebdo - also
appears on screen.

Related links

The group also reportedly published a statement on text-sharing website
Pastebin, entitled "Message to the enemies of freedom of expression".

In it they wrote: "Freedom of expression has suffered inhuman assault... It is
our duty to react... We wish to express our condolences to the families of the
victims of this cowardly and despicable act."

They added: "We will fight always and everywhere the enemies of freedom of
expression... Freedom of expression and opinion is a non-negotiable thing. To
tackle it is to attack democracy... the struggle for the defence of those
freedoms is the foundation of our movement."

Anonymous has previously carried out cyber attacks on websites belonging to the
Government, as well as those of corporate and religious organisations.

In 2012 Anonymous crippled the Home Office's website by flooding it with huge
amounts of internet traffic.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 10, 2015 Saturday 8:32 PM GMT

Paris shootings: Police stopped watching Said and Cherif Kouachi;
New pictures show the brothers who launched the terror attack on Charlie Hebdo
were being very closely watched by police

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 602 words


Said and Cherif Kouachi's faces were unknown to the French public before
Wednesday's terrorist attack in Paris.

But to the French police, they were very well known indeed - and it must have
been with despair that the authorities realised that the men they had once
watched so closely had been allowed to drop off their radar, slip away, and plot
their attacks.

Indeed, both brothers were being watched intently as long ago as spring 2009,
according to Le Parisien.

Yet French authorities stopped the surveillance in July - just six months before
the Paris attacks - because they were deemed to be of low risk.

Photographs shown for the first time yesterday illustrate just how closely the
brothers were being followed: police released long-lens surveillance images
taken of Cherif by his car in his home district of Gennevilliers, on April 7,
2010, and three days later the police trailed him to Murat, in the Cantal
region. He was shown shopping with Djamel Beghal - the jihadist with links to
Finsbury Park mosque, and was also photographed in sports clothes, training
under Beghal's supervision.

The monitoring of their telephone lines, internet use and movements was stepped
up at the end of 2011, when Said returned from a trip to Yemen - where he met
Anwar Al-Awlaki, head of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Penninsula.

"But between that date and the summer of 2014, nothing suggested any connection
with a radical Islamist movement - neither from their phone calls nor their
internet use," a judicial source told Le Parisien.

"Given the absence of these elements, the surveillance was stopped in order to
refocus on other individuals who at that moment presented a higher risk."

French police have defended that decision, saying that it takes 20 officers to
follow one man for 24 hours, and with finite resources they have to choose who
to survey.

But the new photos and detail of the surveillance operation prove just how
dangerous the French police believed the Kouachi brothers were - for a while.

Born in Paris's 10th arrondissement, their Algerian parents had died when they
were young. They spent their teenage years at a centre for troubled and
vulnerable youngsters, though there was little hint then of their future path as
jihadists.

In 1994, at some point following the death of their parents, Mokhtar Kouachi and
Freiha Meguireche, Said, then 14, and Cherif Kouachi, then 12, were sent by
Paris social services to live in care in Treignac, Correze, central France.

Saïd passed a hotelier diploma at that time. Cherif was training to be an
electrician or electrical engineer, and the brothers were keen footballers.

The pair joined in Correze by their younger brother and sister, before returning
to Paris in 2000, where Cherif found work as a pizza delivery man.

But while living there he became close friends with a known jihadist recruiter
in the 19th arrondissement, and became part of what is now known as the Buttes
Charmont network of Islamists.

Cherif was arrested in January 2005 as he prepared to fly to Damascus, and on to
fight in Iraq. On May 14, 2008, Cherif was sentenced to three years in prison
for the Iraq plot, with 18 months suspended. But because of time already served
in detention, he was released.

And despite having renounced terrorism, in May 2010 he was arrested as one of 13
men plotting to free an Algerian terrorist from prison. But he was released
owing to lack of evidence.

A year later his brother Said returned from Yemen, where he had met Al Qaeda's
top leader in the region, Anwar Al-Awlaki.

They were put under even more surveillance as a result. But this was stopped six
months ago.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 10, 2015 Saturday 8:20 PM GMT

Paris terror attacks: Muslim worker at Jewish store hid customers in cold store;

Photo of Lassana Bathily goes viral on Twitter as he is praised for saving lives
with his quick thinking at Kosher supermarket

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly and agencies

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 345 words


A Muslim shop assistant has been hailed a hero after saving at least six people
by hiding them in a walk-in freezer at the Jewish grocery store where an
Islamist gunmen made his final stand.

Lassana Bathily, 24, originally from Mali in west Africa, ushered customers into
the cold store at the Hyper Cacher supermarket in Porte de Vincennes on Friday,
where Ahmedi Couibaly had taken a number of people hostage.

The siege ended when police raided the shop, shooting him dead. Four hostages
also died.

However, the toll might have been much worse were it not for the quick thinking
of Mr Bathily.

"I went down to the freezer, I opened the door, there were several people who
went in with me. I turned off the light and the freezer," he told the French TV
station BFMTV.

"I brought them inside and I told them to stay calm here, I'm going to go out.
When they got out, they thanked me."

He slipped away using a goods lift and was able to provide police with valuable
information about what has happening inside the store.

The terrified customers were also able to telephone police from their hiding
place in the basement.

An image of Mr Bathily is trending on Twitter, labelled Malian Muslim, shared as
a symbol of the people united against terrorism.

It is the latest example of heroism to emerge from the bloodshed.

Johan Dorre, a father of four, was shopping when the attack happened. He was
able to telephone relatives and relay messages.

Jacob Katorza, his uncle, told The Daily Mail: "Johan and the others were
terrified that they would be discovered by the terrorists and were forced to
huddle together like frightened animals to avoid hypothermia."

Twitter: Anna_P - Peace! "Malian Muslim worker in kosher store hid Jews, saved
them. Right now, Lassana Bathily is coolest man on the planet".

Jewish community members held a vigil on Saturday for the four victims.

France has western Europe's largest Jewish and Muslim populations, which have
seen increasing tensions in recent months.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 10, 2015 Saturday 8:02 PM GMT

Paris shootings: The backlash begins against French Muslims;
Attacks against Muslims spike after the terror attack on the offices of Charlie
Hebdo

BYLINE: By Rory Mulholland Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 541 words


Fears of an anti-Islamic backlash in France are growing in the wake of the
Charlie Hebdo massacre as a spate of attacks on mosques were reported across the
country.

Mosques in French have in recent years regularly been targeted, but since
Wednesday's deadly attack on the satirical magazine by a pair of radical
Islamists, there has been a spike in the number of attacks.

The latest came on Friday night when shots were fired at a Muslim prayer centre
in Digne-les-Bains in Provence, and at a mosque in Soissons, about 20 miles away
from the town where the Charlie Hebdo suspects were shot dead by police.

On Thursday, a homemade bomb went off outside a mosque in the central city of
Villefranche-sur-Saone, while on Friday the head of a wild pig was placed
outside a prayer room in Corte in Corsica.

A letter lay beside the head that warned "the next time it will be the head of
one of yours."

Anti-Islam slogans were daubed on the walls of mosques in the towns of Poitiers,
Lieven and Béthune, while in Bayonne on the Atlantic coast the words "dirty
Arabs" and "murderers" were sprayed on the facade of a mosque.

Police said a fire at a mosque in Aix-les-Bains was likely a criminal act, and
in L'Oiselet, a secondary school student of north African origin was beaten up
by youths shouting racist insults.

In Paris, terrorism expert Thomas Hegghammer tweeted that his taxi driver had
told him customers were refusing to ride with him because he was of Arab
appearance.

The spate of attacks worry the leaders of France's Muslim community, which at
around five million people is the largest in Europe.

Many imams urged their followers during Friday prayers to shun violence and
terrorism but they also warned that Muslims must fight against any attempts to
equate Islam and terrorism.

Imam Chabbar Taieb, the head of a charity group that runs five mosques in Paris,
said he condemned the Charlie Hebdo attack but warned that the vast majority of
peace-loving Muslims in France might have to pay the price.

"The result is that now everyone is afraid of Muslims and Muslims are living in
fear. I have also asked the faithful to show patience in the face of any
anti-Muslim provocations," he said.

Anti-immigrant and anti-Islam attitudes have been on the rise in recent years in
France as elsewhere in Europe, fuelled by an ailing economy and rising
unemployment.

The growing resentment has boosted the fortunes of the far-Right Front National,
which for decades has campaigned on an anti-immigrant ticket.

An Ipsos opinion poll last year said that 74 percent of those interviewed
thought Islam was an "intolerant" religion incompatible with the values of
French society, while eight out of ten thought Islam sought to "impose its model
on others".

Those fears have been heightened with the current flow of young French nationals
to the Middle east, where around 1,000 are beleived to have travelled to wage
jihad alongside radical groups such as the Islamic State.

French and European leaders have long been warning that some of these will
likely return to their homelands to carry out attacks there.

The two brothers who carried out the attack on Charlie Hebdo had been trained
and indoctrinated by a network of French Islamist extremists with links to
Islamic State.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 10, 2015 Saturday 10:00 AM GMT

Abu Hamza had the same rights as anybody else. That shows the strength of our
society;
Terrorists such as those who attacked Charlie Hebdo aim to change our society,
to make it fit their narrative of persecution. We should not let them

BYLINE: By Richard Barrett former global counter-terrorism director at MI6

LENGTH: 1423 words


The vicious, protracted attacks in France this week - and their bloody
denouement yesterday - have brought into sharp focus the seamlessness of global
terrorism today. Whether the gunmen had connections with Syria or Yemen makes
little difference, the ideology that inspired them is recognisable all over the
world, promoted in real life or through the internet in a way that reaches into
the very heart of vulnerable communities, wherever they may be. The challenge of
preventing the spread of violent extremism becomes harder by the day.

The sentencing yesterday of Abu Hamza al-Masri to life in prison by a US judge
for terrorist crimes committed between 1998 and 2001, when Abu Hamza was based
in Britain, is a reminder of a simpler time, when there were far fewer extremist
preachers and the role of the internet in spreading their message was minor and
inconsequential. But even then, Western governments found it hard to frame laws
that struck a proper balance between punishing incitement to violence and
protecting freedom of speech. Indeed, both the latest attacks and the sentencing
of Abu Hamza may raise questions again about the adequacy of British law to
bring terrorists to justice. It may also revive questions about the thoroughness
with which the British authorities investigated Abu Hamza's activities at the
time.

In the French attacks, as with other recent attacks in Ottawa and Sydney, the
perpetrators have had police records and people have asked why they were at
large, not under surveillance. But terrorism is a difficult crime to legislate
against. The objective must certainly be to prevent it, rather than merely to
punish it - though there are obvious problems in demonstrating intent to the
satisfaction of a jury before a crime has occurred. That is why the police have
often let terrorist cases run until they are confident that they have clear
evidence of preparatory acts or unambiguous proof of concrete planning.
Unfortunately, attacks such as the one in Paris on Wednesday can be quickly
planned and easily executed, giving little time for law enforcement to disrupt
them.

The dramatic events since then, covered continuously and in minute detail by the
media, have inevitably raised further questions about the police response. But
more important is the message these incidents send to other radicalised young
men, who watch the wholesale mobilisation and widespread disruption of one the
world's most advanced nations. The Kouachi brothers are dead, but death may not
deter potential copycats who regard these two thugs as martyrs. It was little
more than three months ago that the spokesman for the so-called Islamic State
(Isil) called for attacks in the West, "especially against the spiteful and
filthy French", and, as the director general of the security service (MI5) said
yesterday, the risk of an attack in London is high. There are other risks, too.
The deaths of four hostages yesterday could provoke a generalised anti-Muslim
backlash. How should we respond?

Britain has always prided itself on its tolerance of opposing views and its
protection of civil liberties, and in the Nineties several foreign governments
complained that London had become a haven for terrorists; the French in
particular were concerned that members of the Algerian terrorist organisation
the Armed Islamic Group (GIA) were able to plan attacks in France from a safe
base in what they called "Londonistan".

The name Londonistan quickly caught on with others, including the US, but
British authorities argued that they would act immediately if their overseas
partners could provide evidence of criminal activity. In the absence of that,
there remained an important distinction between political activism and
terrorism. In response, foreign governments warned the UK that people who were
given the freedom to operate as political activists in London while supporting
terrorism in their home countries would eventually cause harm to Britain as
well. However, the laws then in existence here did not allow police action, nor
justify intensive surveillance. Abu Hamza himself noted on arrival in the UK
from Egypt the remarkable levels of freedom that existed in Britain.

Here was a man who could preach his rabble-rousing rubbish in the streets
outside Finsbury Park mosque unmolested; a man who knew very well where the
limits of the law lay, and that nothing would happen to him until he overstepped
them; a man who could castigate British policy and British society while
achieving British citizenship and enjoying its benefits, including thousands of
pounds in social security payments. Abu Hamza provided an unattractive but
potent example of a country that abided by the rule of law. Eventually he became
overconfident of his invulnerability, and his arrest in 2004 was followed by a
successful prosecution in the UK courts, including on one count of terrorism.

The jury at the trial that concluded yesterday in America took less than two
days to decide his guilt, on charges that he actively supported terrorism, in
particular during a fatal hostage-taking in Yemen in 1998 in which his son and
stepson were implicated. The testimony of an American woman who had been
crippled during the kidnap had a particular impact. It reminded anyone who was
paying attention that terrorism has victims whose pain endures. It should also
have reminded Abu Hamza that while he might have been basking in the attention
of his followers as they sat in the road before him, some were actually
listening to what he said. To the casual observer he might have seemed nothing
more than a bombastic fool, but to a dispirited and alienated young man without
much sense of direction or identity, his explanation of the ills of the world
and his offer of a solution may have had an immediate and powerful effect.

One of those influenced by Abu Hamza at Finsbury Park mosque was Djamel Beghal,
now known to be a senior al-Qaeda figure who has boasted of setting up terror
cells around Europe. Among those Beghal took under his wing was Chérif Kouachi,
killed by security forces in France yesterday with his brother Saïd. Chérif
Kouachi was also implicated in a plot to free one of the GIA's leaders from
prison in 2010, further illustrating the interconnected nature of the current
terrorist threat.

Laws in Britain have become stiffer since the days of Abu Hamza's preaching, to
the extent that travel overseas to an area of terrorist activity may be
penalised by refusal of re-entry; prosecutors argue for trials to be held in
secret; and the standards of evidence of intent have become less rigorous. But
these changes, although they have great public support in terrorist cases, have
also shown the power of terrorism. Terrorists aim to change our society, to make
it less tolerant and to have it fit more closely to their narrative of
persecution and discrimination as a way to increase their support.

Here lies the challenge of counter-terrorism. We cannot criminalise an analysis
of international politics or a critique of society just because we think it is
wrong or harmful to social cohesion. Hate speech, incitement to violence and
outright racism are correctly banned, but the appeal of, for example, Isil, is
more subtle than that. It offers a new beginning, a sense of purpose and a
heroic role that is of huge attraction to many disaffected people around the
world. Most of these potential recruits probably know very well that Isil is a
ruthless and horrifically violent organisation, but at the same time they both
excuse it and believe that they needn't get that involved. The truth will
disappoint them; but by then it will be too late, especially if there is no
obvious exit and the doors of return are shut in their faces. In the meantime,
more determined and radicalised terrorists will still manage to mow people down
in the streets of Paris or London with self-justifying cries of "Allahu akbar".

So the answer is that we cannot prevent every attack. We are still at the
beginning of our understanding of the appeal of violent extremism, and even
further behind in working out how to counter it. But one thing is for sure:
providing Abu Hamza with his several hundred days in court demonstrates the
strength and values of the society that we are fighting to preserve. We should
have the confidence, even in the immediate aftermath of terrible terrorist
attacks, to believe that, ultimately, focusing on what we are fighting for will
have a more lasting impact on terrorism than focusing on what we are fighting
against.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           January 10, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

The bloody climax;
Four hostages and three gunmen killed ; Terror attacks were co-ordinated ; ?
France on alert for further violence

BYLINE: Charles Bremner ; Adam Sage ; Dominic Kennedy Dammartin-en-Goële

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 693 words


France braced itself last night for Islamist revenge attacks after the three
gunmen who had terrorised the country since Wednesday were killed in bloody
shoot-outs with police that also claimed the lives of four hostages.

Before dying in a storm of bullets, terrorists in sieges north of Paris and in a
Jewish grocery in the capital claimed allegiance to al-Qaeda and Islamic State,
and confirmed that they had co-ordinated their multiple murders this week.

Seventeen people died in attacks that began when Saïd and Chérif Kouachi shot
dead 12 cartoonists, journalists, visitors and police officers at the Charlie
Hebdo magazine on Wednesday.

Addressing a traumatised people last night, President Hollande used the language
of war, talking of "a tragedy for the nation". He warned: "France has not
finished with the threats that are targeting it. I urge vigilance, unity and
mobilisation."

He denounced the attack on a kosher shop at Porte de Vincennes in eastern Paris
by Amedy Coulibaly, a 32-yearold Muslim convert, as "an appalling act of
antisemitism".

The near-simultaneous assaults by anti-terrorist units ended a spree by
Paris-born Muslims that put the city into a partial lockdown and fulfilled
forecasts that Isis and its allies would soon strike hard at the heart of the
west.

In a show of defiance European leaders, including David Cameron, will join Mr
Hollande tomorrow in a march of solidarity in central Paris. From Tennessee,
President Obama said: "I want the people of France to know that the United
States stands with you today, stands with you tomorrow."

The sieges began after breakfast when police pursued the Kouachi brothers,
orphans of Algerian parents, into an industrial estate at Dammartinen-Goële, six
miles north of Charles de Gaulle airport. The pair, who had hidden overnight in
Picardy, northeast of Paris, entered a printing plant.

At lunchtime Coulibaly, a former Coca-Cola bottling plant worker, shot his way
into the crowded shop hours before the Jewish Sabbath began, declaring: "You
know who I am." He took up to 20 people hostage while others fled the shop.
Police identified him as the gunman who murdered a woman police officer and
gravely wounded a street cleaner on Thursday morning.

At 5pm officers of the elite gendarmerie intervention unit stormed the printing
plant after firing a salvo of stun grenades. The Kouachi brothers, aged 34 and
32, ran out of the building firing at them with their Kalashnikov assault
weapons and shouting Allahu akbar.

Minutes later stun grenades flashed in the windows of the Jewish shop, followed
by bursts of gunfire. As well as four deaths among the hostages, four were
critically wounded.

Before facing their expected deaths at the hands of police, the terrorists told
a television news channel that they had co-ordinated the actions. Coulibaly, who
had served a five-year jail term for terrorism, said that he had planned his
assaults with the Kouachi brothers, who were longstanding accomplices. "We just
synchronised the start. When they began with Charlie Hebdo, I began with the
police," he said. He had aimed to defend Palestinians and kill Jews.

The son of the owner of the printing plant escaped the attention of the gunmen
and hid in the building, it emerged last night. He had managed to communicate by
telephone with police.

The government was on the defensive over the failure of police and intelligence
services, despite intense surveillance, to track the first big Islamist strike
on French soil. They had lost track of Chérif Kouachi after he had served a
prison sentence in 2009 and had not acted on a US warning that Saïd had
undergone training in Yemen.

Manuel Valls, the prime minister, said that the heavy death toll revealed flaws
in intelligence. "There is a clear failing. When 17 people die, it means there
were cracks," he said.

The former president Nicolas Sarkozy said: "War has been declared on France ...
by barbarians who deny the very idea of civilisation, universal values and
humanism."

As he spoke, police were moving in to guard the Jewish Marais district. Paris's
main synagogue was understood to have called off its Saturday service. News
special, pages 2-9

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police stormed a Jewish grocery in eastern Paris, top, where up to 20
people were taken hostage yesterday. Survivors fled as the gunman was shot dead

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           January 10, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

The bloody climax;
? Four hostages and three gunmen killed? Terror attacks were co-ordinated ?
France on alert for further violence

BYLINE: Charles Bremner

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 673 words


France braced itself last night for Islamist revenge attacks after the three
gunmen who had terrorised the country since Wednesday were killed in bloody
shoot-outs with police that also claimed the lives of four hostages.

Before dying in a storm of bullets, terrorists in sieges north of Paris and in a
Jewish grocery in the capital claimed allegiance to al-Qaeda and Islamic State,
and confirmed that they had coordinated their multiple murders this week.
Seventeen people died in attacks that began when Saïd and Chérif Kouachi shot
dead 12 cartoonists, journalists, visitors and police officers at the Charlie
Hebdo magazine on Wednesday.

Addressing a traumatised people last night, President Hollande used the language
of war, talking of "a tragedy for the nation". He warned: "France has not
finished with the threats that are targeting it. I urge vigilance, unity and
mobilisation." He denounced the attack on a kosher shop at Porte de Vincennes in
eastern Paris by Amedy Coulibaly, a 32-year old Muslim convert, as "an appalling
act of antisemitism".

The near-simultaneous assaults by anti-terrorist units put an end to a spree by
Paris-born Muslims that put the city into a partial lockdown and fulfilled
forecasts that Isis and its allies would soon strike hard at the heart of the
west.

In a show of defiance European leaders, including David Cameron, will join Mr
Hollande tomorrow in a march of solidarity in central Paris. From Tennessee,
President Obama said: "I want the people of France to know that the United
States stands with you today, stands with you tomorrow."

The sieges began after breakfast when police pursued the Kouachi brothers,
orphans of Algerian parents, into an industrial estate at Dammartinen-Goele, six
miles north of Charles de Gaulle airport. The pair, who had hidden overnight in
Picardy, northeast of Paris, entered a printing plant, taking a manager as
hostage.

At lunchtime, Coulibaly, a former Coca-Cola bottling plant worker, shot his way
into the crowded shop hours before the Jewish Sabbath began, declaring: "You
know who I am." He took up to 20 people hostage while others fled the shop.
Police identified him as the gunman who murdered a woman police officer and
gravely wounded a street cleaner on Thursday morning.

At 5pm officers of the elite gendarmerie intervention unit stormed the printing
plant after firing a salvo of stun grenades. The Kouachi brothers, aged 34 and
32, ran out of the building firing at them with their Kalashnikov assault
weapons and shouting Allahu akbar.

Minutes later, stun grenades flashed in the windows of the Jewish shop, followed
by bursts of gunfire. As well as four deaths among the hostages, another four
were critically wounded.

Before facing their expected deaths at the hands of police, the terrorists
confirmed to a television news channel that they had co-ordinated the actions.
Coulibaly, who had served a five-year prison sentence for terrorist offences,
said that he had planned his assaults with the Kouachi brothers, who were
longstanding accomplices. "We just synchronised the start. When they began with
Charlie Hebdo, I began with the police," he said. He had aimed to defend
Palestinians and kill Jews.

The hostage at the printing plant escaped the attention of the gunmen and hid in
the building, it emerged last night. He had managed to communicate by telephone
with police.

The government was on the defensive over the failure of police and intelligence
services, despite intense surveillance, to track the first big Islamist strike
on French soil. They had lost track of Chérif Kouachi after he had served a
prison sentence in 2009 and had not acted on a US warning that Said had
undergone training in Yemen.

The former president Nicolas Sarkozy said: "War has been declared on France ...
by barbarians who deny the very idea of civilisation, universal values and
humanism."

As he spoke, police were moving in to guard the Jewish Marais district. Paris's
main synagogue was understood to have called off its Saturday service. News
special, pages 2-9

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VANTAGE NEWSPolice stormed a Jewish grocery in eastern Paris, top,
where up to 20 people were taken hostage yesterday. Survivors fled as the gunman
was shot dead

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           January 10, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attacks in France are 'nothing new', says academic

BYLINE: Robin Turner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 546 words


AWELSH university expert on political violence in France says the Charlie Hebdo
terrorist attack in Paris is the latest in a long line of political attacks the
French government has been battling for over a century.

Dr Chris Millington, a lecturer in history and classics at Swansea University,
who specialises in French terrorist violence, said: "This is just the latest
episode of terrorist violence to afflict France since the 1890s. While it can
often seem like today's terrorism is a new phenomenon - more deadly and more
callous than in the past, and more threatening to our liberties - this isn't
really true.

"France has confronted a variety of terrorist groups that have shared common
features in their behaviour and attacks since 1890. This means too that the
challenges the government faces today are not new - balancing democracy and
freedom with law enforcement."

Dr Millington said it was now time for "level heads" in France.

He said: "The country has suffered attacks in waves, from the early days of
anarchists using bombs in the 1890s to Algeria's struggle with France which led
to attacks in France and Africa, and to Islamic violence from the 1980s, '90s
and up to the present day.

"In June 1894 anarchists assassinated the French president, Sadi Carnot, and in
the same year an anarchist threw a bomb into a restaurant (The Cafe Terminus,
the first time a private individual had randomly blown up civilians) in Paris
targeting ordinary people.

"In the 1990s when Algeria descended into civil war an Islamic group (Groupe
Islamique Armée) seeking to punish France for its imperialism hijacked an
airliner and there was talk of an intention to fly it into the Eiffel Tower.

"While there have been waves of terror attacks in France, they've tended to
involve small groups using infrequent attacks but the problem is the infrequent
attacks are often spectacular and deadly.

During the 1970s and 1980s leftwing radicalism saw groups such as Action Directe
commit violent attacks in the name of anti-capitalism and, as recently as
September of last year, hiker Hervé Gourdel was abducted and murdered in Algeria
by a group sympathetic to Islamic State.

Other terror attacks in France since the 1970s include: May 20, 1978:
Palestinian mili-tants open fire at Orly airport south of Paris, targeting
passengers for a flight to Tel Aviv. Eight die, including three gunmen, two
police officers and three passengers; October 3, 1980: A bomb explodes outside a
Paris synagogue, killing four and wounding 20; March 29, 1982: An attack on a
train between Toulouse and Paris on which then Paris mayor Jacques Chirac was
supposed to travel kills five people and wounds 77. International terrorist
Carlos the Jackal is suspected; September 17, 1986: A bomb outside the Tati
department store in Paris kills seven and wounds 55, the worst of 15 such
attacks committed by a pro-Iranian group that killed 13 people and wounded 303;
July 25, 1995: A bomb in a com-muter train explodes at the St Michel metro
station in Paris, killing eight and wounding 119; March 11 and 15, 2012: Mohamed
Merah, 23, shoots three soldiers dead in Toulouse and Montauban before killing
three students and a teacher at a Jewish school in Toulouse. Merah was killed on
March 22 in a shootout by French police.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 11, 2015 Sunday

Pakistan organization chief says Paris attack shows terrorism is global problem

LENGTH: 524 words


Text of report published by Pakistan newspaper The Express Tribune website on 10
January

Karachi: The Paris attack is an eye-opener that terrorism is a global problem
and that extremists want to rule the world.

This was said by Allama Abbas Kumaili, whose organisation, Forum Against
Intolerance, Terrorism and Hatred (Faith), organised a 'Religious harmony and
peace conference as per teachings of Holy Prophet (pbuh) and Jesus Christ' at
Karachi Press Club (KPC) on Friday.

Muslim clerics wearing topis, a Sikh with a red turban, a Hindu woman with a
tilak and a Christian bishop in purple robes, sat alongside each other to
condemn terrorism and stress the need for respect and love among religious
communities.

"Terrorism is not a problem of Pakistan alone," said Kumaili. "Terrorists are
spreading chaos everywhere from Nigeria to Syria." He stressed the need to form
a new Pakistan where everyone will be treated equally and people from all
religions can live as brothers.

Bishop Ijaz Inayat was of the view that at a time when extremism is spreading
not only in Pakistan but across the world, dialogues like these are the need of
the hour. He said that the Peshawar attack has initiated a 'jihad against
terrorism and brutality'.

"A holy war has now started as people have come together to wage war against
terrorists," he said. He urged the people to stop giving their children to these
extremists who train them to become suicide bombers.

Father Pascal Robert said that terrorism cannot be eliminated with terrorism and
that we should follow the love and peace message of Jesus Christ.

Hyderabad-based cleric Maulana Masood Jamal raised slogans of 'Muslim Maseehi,
bhai bhai' [Muslim Christian, brother brother]. He said that in the current
situation, hypocrites such as 'Maulana Diesel' had been exposed as they have a
soft corner for the Taliban. He questioned that how many Muslims bothered to
read the holy books of other religions and read out the Ten Commandments to the
audience.

Appreciating the meeting, Maulana Faisal Azizi said that this was the real face
of Pakistan where followers of different religions were sitting together and
talking respectfully about each other's faith. "A terrorist can't be a Muslim as
Islam preaches peace," he said.

Michael Javed said that Christians are leaving Pakistan and going to countries
such as Thailand and Malaysia. "If our country had been run according to
Jinnah's vision, there would have been no need to establish military courts," he
said.

Representative of the Pakistan Hindu Council, Mangla Sharma, said that the
situation is such that now people do not want to sit next to each other when
they come to know that they belong to different faiths. "However, it is
conferences like these that unite people," she said. "No religion promotes
terrorism and religions have nothing to do with it."

Sardar Ramesh Singh who started off with Guru Nanak's verse said that all
religions believe in equality. Former deputy speaker Rahila Tiwana praised
Allama Abbas Kumaili for holding the conference and raising his voice against
terrorism.

Source: Express Tribune website, Karachi, in English 10 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 11, 2015 Sunday

Arab League condemns "terror attack" in Lebanon's Tripoli

LENGTH: 118 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 11 January: Arab League Secretary-General Nabil al-Arabi condemned the
terrorist attack that targeted Jabal Muhsin mountainous area in Tripoli, leaving
nine persons killed and scores others injured.

In a statement released on Sunday [11 January], Al-Arabi praised the wisdom of
the Lebanese political leaders who condemned the heinous crime and said it aimed
at destabilizing the country.

Al-Arabi called on all Lebanese people to unite with their army and security
bodies in order to safeguard their homeland.

He also offered condolences to the Lebanese government and families of the
victims.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1224gmt 11 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 11, 2015 Sunday

Norwegian media houses step up security in response to Paris terror attack

LENGTH: 261 words


Excerpt from report by Norwegian newspaper Aftenposten on 7 January

[NTB report: "Norwegian Media Outlets Tighten Security After the Terror in
Paris"]

NRK [Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation], Aftenposten, Dagbladet [newspaper], VG
[Verdens Gang; newspaper] and TV 2 are among the media houses in Norway that are
tightening security following the terror attack against the satirical magazine
Charlie Hebdo in France on 7 January.

Aftenposten reports that it is increasing security at its editorial offices
[also translates as "that they are increasing security at their editorial
offices"]. Chief Executive Officer Sondre Gravir tells NRK that it is tightening
entry checks in the wake of the terror attack against the satirical magazine
Charlie Hebdo.

VG, which is based in the same building on Akersgata [street] in Oslo, is also
tightening security. At the public broadcast offices of NRK and TV 2, measures
will also be taken.

"TV 2 is strengthening security at our buildings in Oslo and Bergen. That is
first and foremost because the target was a media house," News and Sports Editor
Jan Ove Arsaether tells Dagens Naeringsliv [business daily].

"We are continuously assessing this. In addition, we have implemented
intensified security measures here, such as entry checks," News Director Per
Arne Kalbakk at NRK declares.

At the Havnelageret [Oslo commercial centre] too, where Dagbladet and NTB are
based, security will now be tightened.

[Passage omitted; previously reported information on Charlie Hebdo terror
attack]

Source: Aftenposten, Oslo, in Norwegian 7 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 11, 2015 Sunday

Iran commentary blames Paris terror attacks on west's "support for violence"

LENGTH: 840 words


Text of commentary by Seyyed Mohammad Eslami: "Hidden Half of the Night in
Paris" by Iranian newspaper Khorasan on 10 January

Who is to blame for the "Charlie Hebdo" incident? The fresh terrorist incident
in France has fanned the flames of old issues in the West. Who are the terrorist
groups in Europe? By whom and by which groups are they being supported and with
which people and groups outside Europe are they linked? Are they representatives
of Islam and Muslims or do they represent extremist and violent views? Can the
Muslims residing in Western countries come to terms with Western values and the
secularist principles in these countries? Do such violent actions stem from
Islam or do their roots lie in other realities of the world today? All these are
questions that are one side of the coin. However, there are questions on the
other side of the coin such as: Which publications are usually the targets of
terrorist attacks?

We Will Return Home!

Security experts, namely experts at RAND [Corporation], which is affiliated to
the US Navy, have assessed the attack on Charlie Hebdo in Paris differently from
other examples in Australia, Canada, New York, and...They regard this as a well
planned attack by trained people and, moreover, that these were not
martyrdom-seeking operations. It seems that the main suspects of the Charlie
Hebdo terrorist operations were linked with Yemen's Al Qa'idah more than any
other group. The interesting point is that precisely on the day that 12 people
were shot dead in Paris, 37 people were killed in an explosion by Al Qa'idah in
Yemen. Yemen and many other Middle Eastern countries - especially Iraq and Syria
these days - are the biggest consumers of weapons that are produced by Western
countries. France is facing humorous economic problems recently and it relies
greatly on arms exports to the Middle East. The people who fired at journalists
in Paris were not trained at the universities of the Islamic world. Yesterday
The Guardian newspaper described them as "Salafi jihadis." They are trained by
groups familiar with the arms trade in Western countries, especially France.
They are excited over the prevalence of violence supported by Western countries
in Islamic countries. They are a boomerang, which has returned to its home. They
are not the first example and will not be the last.

How Far Does Freedom of Speech Extend?

Charlie Hebdo is the other side of the coin. It is a satirical magazine that is
famous for publishing caricatures against respected personalities and religious
symbols. This newspaper was under threat since 2006 for publishing the cartoon
that appeared in the Danish newspaper Jyllands-Posten. In 2011 Charlie Hebdo was
firebombed. All these caricatures are being published in the name of "freedom of
speech." In the past few hours, despite the efforts of Muslims in Europe and
other parts of the country in rejecting the Salafists' false definition of
Islam, being a Muslim and Islam continue to be blamed for lacking the necessary
self-restraint in today's modern world. Nevertheless, a simple comparison by
"WikiLeaks" yesterday, which was republished in the social media, has a lot to
say. In 2009 Charlie Hebdo made the news. Britain's The Telegraph reported on 27
January 2009 ("French cartoonist Sine on trial on charges of anti-Semitism over
Sarkozy jibe) that the 80-year old (and today 86-year old) Charlie Hebdo
cartoonist Maurice Sinet was dismissed from the magazine on charges of what the
magazine regarded as an "anti-Semitic" piece that poked fun at then President
Nicola Sarkozy's son. Sinet was later on charged for inciting hatred against the
Jews. Can you guess what anti-Jewish insult he was accused of? After the
marriage of Sarkozy's son to a Jewish French heiress, Sinet wrote: "He'll go a
long way in life, that little lad." This sparked a wave of reaction among French
politicians. The chief editor of the pro-freedom of speech magazine Charlie
Hebdo asked him to apologize. He refused and was dismissed. This example clearly
shows that we are facing double standards when it comes to "freedom of speech."
These standards regard a simple joke as being anti-Semitic, but simply ignore
the repeated insults against the beliefs of others. The recent terrorist
incidents in Paris are the result of two simultaneous extremisms -extremism in
disrespect towards other humans' values and extremism in violence, which results
in terrorism. Western media will have a lot to say these days about violence in
the name of Islam. However, the hidden half of the night speaks of policies that
certain opportunistic behaviours and indifferent attitudes towards moral issues
actually result in the propagation of such violence. And of course, between
these two extremisms, what will show itself more to the world in the future will
be pure Islam, which is being offered to the world by the Islamic Revolution -
an Islam that is strongly idealistic but follows this with moderation,
rationality, and realism.

Source: Khorasan, Mashhad, in Persian 10 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 11, 2015 Sunday

Kuwaiti foreign minister condemns terrorist attack in northern Lebanon

LENGTH: 137 words


Text of report in English by Kuwaiti government-owned news agency Kuna website

Kuwait News Agency) -KUWAIT, Jan 11 (KUNA) - First Deputy Prime Minister and
Foreign Minister Sheikh Sabah Al-Khaled Al-Hamad Al-Sabah expressed Sunday [11
January] his country's condemnation of the terrorist attack which left many
people either dead or injured in the northern Lebanese city of Tripoli.

In a letter of condolences to Lebanese Foreign Affairs and Emigrant Minister
Gebran Bassil, Sheikh Sabah Al-Khaled reaffirmed Kuwait's firm stance with
Lebanon against such heinous act.

The attack in Tripoli Saturday, led to the death of nine people and the injury
of 37 others.

Initial army investigations revealed that the attack was carried out by two
Lebanese suicide bombers.

Source: Kuna news agency website, Kuwait, in English 11 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 11, 2015 Sunday

Icelandic foreign minister comments on terrorist attacks in France

LENGTH: 455 words


Text of report by website of public Icelandic National Broadcasting Service on 9
January

[Unattributed report: "Nothing Can Justify People Being Murdered"]

"We can criticize and disagree with a great many things that are said or with
pictures that might be drawn, but nothing can justify brutally murdering people
simply for making fun of something or expressing their opinions in this way,"
Foreign Minister Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson said regarding events in France over the
last few days.

Sveinsson said Icelanders had to be aware that they were not isolated in this
world, and that the terrorist threat was real. "I have no solution to this and
cannot say at this point in time what Iceland should do if we felt threatened,"
Sveinsson said. "We need to be aware of this -this is all around us, and
Icelanders need to realize that we are part of a bigger world; we do not want to
isolate ourselves. We need to consider whether there is a realistic threat of
something like this happening in this country."

Sveinsson said he thought the international community should respond by showing
solidarity. "And by demonstrating that we are not going to let any murderers or
terrorists erode our freedom to express ourselves and say on paper or in speech
what we think."

Immigrants Enrich Icelandic Society

Icelanders are tolerant, he said. "Fortunately, here in Iceland, there are a
great many people of foreign extraction who want to live and work in Iceland,
and I do not think we would be as strong, as varied, and as good a society if
that were not the case. And I believe that the good people who have moved here
have adjusted well to our society and want to continue living here in peace, so
I am not worried in that regard. But we need to listen to what our friends and
cooperation partners abroad are doing and how they assess the risks."

Sveinsson said he assumed that recent events would lead to heightened
surveillance. "People will undoubtedly do something like that now and step up
surveillance and pass tougher regulations, whether we find that positive or
negative. I do not believe these men have achieved what they set out to do: to
silence free debate or to stop people from expressing their views and doing so
either in print or in speech."

In reply to a query regarding the terrorist acts in France, the Office of the
National Commissioner of Police stated that police readiness has not been
heightened in response to these events, but that developments in Europe were
being closely monitored. However, the police force's capability to deal with
such serious events was insufficient, as the Office of the National Commissioner
of Police had repeatedly pointed out.

Source: Ruv.is website, Reykjavik, in Icelandic 0000 gmt 9 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 11, 2015 Sunday

Morocco offers condolences to France at the "Elysee" over terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 152 words


Text of report in English by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news
agency MAP website

Rabat, 11 January 2015, (MAP) - A Moroccan delegation offered, Sunday [11
January] at the Elysee, the kingdom's sincere condolences to French president
and government in the wake of the terror attacks which rocked France this week,
the Foreign Ministry said Sunday.

However, the Moroccan delegation, composed of the foreign minister and Morocco's
ambassador in Paris, did not take part in the solidarity rally held in Paris,
due to the presence of blasphemous cartoons depicting the prophet Muhammad
(PBUH), the ministry said in a statement.

On Saturday, the ministry warned that in the event that cartoons of the Prophet
Muhammad (PBUH) are held during the rally, the Moroccan foreign minister or any
other official would not take part in the rally.

Source: MAP news agency website, Rabat, in English 1605 gmt 11 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 1:10 PM GMT

Replay: Paris unity march remembers victims of Charlie Hebdo attack and
supermarket siege;
A million people set to join world leaders huge unity rally on the streets of
Paris this afternoon 17 deaths in a series of terror attacks

BYLINE: By Jonny Greatrex

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 27 words


This feed is taken from our sister national title the Daily Mirror

Live: Paris march remembers victims of Charlie Hebdo attack and supermarket
siege

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 9:04 AM GMT

Paris terror attacks: Birmingham vigil to be held this afternoon;
City centre gathering organised by French community in the Midlands to coincide
with massive march in Paris

BYLINE: By Jane Tyler

LENGTH: 219 words


A SECOND vigil is to be held in Birmingham today to remember the victims of the
terrorist attacks in Paris.

The event has been organised by Frenchwoman, Aude Marconnet, on behalf of her
community in Birmingham.

She said it would be a "peaceful gathering" to remember all the victims who had
been killed in the attacks in Paris on Wednesday and Friday.

It will start at 1.30pm outside the Library of Birmingham and will march towards
the Bullring.

Aude said: "A republican march has been organised in Paris at 2pm UK time,
therefore we have organised Birmingham's gathering to take place on the same day
at the same time."

London will stage its own tribute, while the Prime Minister and Home Secretary
Theresa May will travel to Paris.

Landmarks including Tower Bridge and Trafalgar Square will display the colours
of the French Tricolore national flag from 4pm.

Tower Bridge will display the flag's colours from 4pm until 5.30pm, after which
the bridge will go dark, while the emblem will also be projected on to the
National Gallery.

The Trafalgar Square fountains will rotate the colours of the French national
flag, while the London Eye will go dark with the red, white and blue projected
on to County Hall behind it.

Hundreds paud their respects to the dead at an earlier vigil held in Birmingham
city centre last Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                            January 11, 2015 Sunday

Police firearms cuts 'scrapped after Paris terror attacks'

BYLINE: Julian Thorpe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 222 words


POLICE have scrapped plans to cut 25 armed officers in response to the terrorist
attacks in Paris.

Stephane Charbonnier, the editor of French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, was
killed along with his police guard and nine of his fellow members of staff,
after two masked gunmen armed with assault rifles forced their way into the
building and opened fire.

Within hours of the killings, senior officers met and discussed the cuts.

Despite senior Greater Manchester Police figures insisting no decisions have
been made yet, police are now reportedly reconsidering plans to cut 25 posts
from the force's firearms unit and 50 officers from its traffic division.

Deputy Chief Constable Ian Hopkins said: "Greater Manchester Police have been
reviewing all areas of business to cope with the level of cuts imposed upon us.

"As such, no areas of the organisation have been untouched in terms of
considering where to make savings.

"No formal papers have yet been considered regarding firearms and traffic roles.

"However, what is clear is that in future we will have to make very difficult
decisions around how we use the budget we are allocated taking into account the
threats and risks of policing an area as diverse as Greater Manchester."

Currently, the UK terror threat is "severe", which means British security forces
believe an attack is likely.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Bournemouth Echo

                            January 11, 2015 Sunday

Silence held in Wimborne as tributes paid in Paris after terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Diana Henderson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 237 words


AS tributes were paid in the French capital to those who died in the Paris
atrocities, people in Wimborne stood in silence as a mark of respect.

Around 30-40 people gathered at a corner of The Square at noon on Sunday to
remember and respect the victims of terrorism, some holding pens and pencils
aloft in tribute to the staff of the Charlie Ebdo magazine.

Sarah Bamber, who organised the silent remembrance, said she was pleased with
the turnout, having only thought of the idea the day before. It was announced at
church services including St Stephen's at Kingston Lacy, which she attends.

"It is not just for the people who died this week but also for our forebears who
also died for the same reasons," she said.

"It will maybe show people that there's a lot of people from different
backgrounds who quietly condemn the acts of extremism."

Among those present was Anthony Oliver, church warden of Wimborne Minster. He
said: "It is right and proper we should be here to show solidarity to those
attacked."

A police officer stopped traffic from entering the town centre square and
workmen cleaning the paving downed tools as a mark of respect as the minster
bell marked the hour.

Also taking part were a number of Quakers, whose worship takes place in silence.
Richard Bush from the newly formed Wimborne Quakers said it was appropriate that
they should be there. "We would be wanting to hold in the light all the
victims," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 5:22 PM GMT

Eric Holder says US 'at war' with 'lone wolf' terrorists after Paris attacks;
Eric Holder echoes sentiment that extremists 'corrupt the Islamic faith' to
justify violence. US plans conference on anti-extremism on 18 February

BYLINE: Martin Pengelly in New York

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 704 words


As a million people gathered in Paris to march and express solidarity in the
face of Islamist terror attacks that this week killed 17 people, attorney
general Eric Holder said the US was "at war" with "lone wolf" terrorists.

Holder's comments echoed those of the French prime minister, Manuel Valls, who
said on Saturday his country was at war with radical Islam. "It is a war against
terrorism," Valls said, "against jihadism, against radical Islam, against
everything that is aimed at breaking fraternity, freedom, solidarity."

Speaking to NBC from Paris, where he was attending a counter-terrorism summit
and the march, Holder said: "That is the thing that I think keeps me up most at
night, this concern about the lone wolf who goes undetected." Questioned by CNN
about how the Paris attackers were known to authorities but still managed to
act, he said such people "float under the radar screens".

"I certainly think we are at war with those who would commit terrorist attacks
and corrupt the Islamic faith to try to justify their terrorist actions," he
told ABC during a tour of Sunday talk shows as he led the Obama administration's
response to the attacks. "That's who we are at war with and we are determined to
take the fight to them."

The White House said on Sunday it will host a conference on anti-extremism on 18
February. Holder said: "We will bring together all of our allies to discuss ways
in which we can counteract this violent extremism that exists around the world."

Speaking to CNN, Holder said: "We're horrified by what happened and we express
our condolences to the French people. What we saw in France over the course of
this last week is unfortunately what we're going to have to confront into the
future.

"We have seen these kinds of attacks or attempts to have these kinds of attacks
certainly in the United States, in the United Kingdom, we've seen this in
Nairobi, in Australia and in Canada. This is the nature of the new threat that
we must confront. We can I think successfully confront it if we share
information in a way that we perhaps have not in the past."

On Sunday, a firebomb was thrown at the offices of a German newspaper that
republished cartoons from Charlie Hebdo, the French satirical magazine at whose
offices 12 people were killed this week. Two men were detained.

Holder deflected questions about the possible existence of "sleeper cells" of
terrorists in the US, which the Senate intelligence committee member Dianne
Feinstein earlier said existed "in France and in other countries and yes, even
in our own". He also refused to comment on alleged failures by French
intelligence services that could have stopped the Paris attacks.

Asked if he believed the Yemen-based Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP)
had "ordered, co-ordinated and paid for" the Paris attacks, the group having
been linked to one of the attackers on Charlie Hebdo, Holder said: "We don't
have any credible information at least as yet to indicate who was responsible,
who sponsored this act.

"I will say this: AQAP remains the most dangerous of the al-Qaida cells that we
are constantly focused on."

Responsibility for the Paris attacks is not yet clear. On Sunday, a video was
released in which Amedy Coulibaly, who shot dead a policewoman and four hostages
in apparent co-ordination with the Charlie Hebdo attackers, before being shot
dead by French police, is described as a "soldier of the caliphate". Coulibaly
appears to swear allegiance to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the leader of the Islamic
State militants who have taken control of large parts of Iraq and Syria and
against whom US-led air strikes continue.

The British prime minister, David Cameron, is due in Washington on Thursday for
a two-day meeting with President Barack Obama. The Paris attack will be among
the subjects discussed. Cameron, the German chancellor Angela Merkel and many
other world leaders marched in Paris on Sunday.

Speaking to ABC on Sunday, the French ambassador to the US, Gérard Araud, said
the White House conference was a good idea because "in a sense, France was not
attacked as France. France was attacked as a western democracy, and it could
have happened everywhere in Europe, and, unfortunately, I guess, also in the
US."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 3:41 PM GMT

Paris welcomes world leaders to solidarity rally against terror attacks;
Presidents and prime ministers join estimated million-strong march in honour of
the victims of this week's attacks · Live blog: huge crowds gather in Paris for
anti-terror rally

BYLINE: Kim Willsher, Anne Penketh and Alexandra Topping in Paris

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 505 words


Protocol went out of the window as the 60 world leaders congregated in Paris on
Sunday to show their support and solidarity with France after a week of
terrorist bloodshed that left 17 dead.

In an event unprecedented in the history of modern France, nobody was standing
on ceremony. Presidents, prime ministers, statesmen and women travelled by bus
to join a largely silent march to honour the victims and heroes of the three
attacks, and to show that they would not be bowed.

They stood in a line, some of the most powerful people on earth, jostling for
space in the Paris boulevard named after Voltaire, the French writer whose name
is synonymous with freedom of expression.

The crowd around them was estimated to number more than 1 million, under the
watchful eye of 2,200 heavily armed police and gendarmes, including crack
snipers on the surrounding roofs, and helicopters.

The straggly line then set off, arm in arm, the French president, François
Hollande, in the centre, the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, and the
Palestinian leader, Mahmoud Abbas, to his left. To his right, Ibrahim Boubacar
Këita, the president of Mali, the Israeli prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu,
and David Cameron, the UK prime minister.

'We are walking together, as one Europe, Africa, the Middle East against
terrorism' was the message.

As they marched, the crowds that lined the route broke into spontaneous cheers
and applause.

The dignitaries had followed the families of the victims of Wednesday's attack
on the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo magazine that left 12 people
dead, the police officer shot on Thursday in Montrouge and the families of the
four Jewish shoppers who died in an attack on a Kosher supermarket in Vincennes
on Friday, who led the march.

Staff of the magazine, wearing white headbands bearing the name "Charlie", wept.
Onlookers wept. Journalists wept.

In the leading cortege, tears streamed down faces, riven with the grief and
shock of the last few days. Hands clutched hands and the most distraught needed
support as they made their way towards Place de la Nation.

In emotional scenes, Hollande hugged the family and friends of those who died,
moving from Charlie Hebdo staff and relatives of the police officers who were
gunned down to the families of the supermarket victims.

Leaders of all the religions followed behind a banner proclaiming "We are
Charlie".

While the occasion was heavy with symbolism, a group of Paris students expressed
fears that the march would be exploited for political ends because of the
presence of so many world leaders. "This isn't a demonstration, it's a rally to
show solidarity and unity," said Claire Guerini, a medical student.

Her friend, Camille Le Bot, a dance student, said: "We're worried about
political manipulation. We're here to say that what happened was extremely grave
and that we're not afraid."

Many of the crowd wore "Je suis Charlie" badges, some carried flags and
placards. A young boy held up a banner reading: " Later I will be a journalist.
I'm not afraid! "

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 2:59 PM GMT

Liverpool shows solidarity for Paris terror attacks as 400 people attend city
centre Charlie Hebdo march;
City stands shoulder to shoulder with French after days of violence

BYLINE: By Liam Murphy

LENGTH: 546 words


paris

Around 400 people are taking part in a march in Liverpool city centre in support
of the victims and families affected by the Paris terrorist attacks.

The event was organised by a group of French people living in the city and one
of those, Vincent Moog, 26, said it was "important not only for France but for
Europe and the world".

It followed the deaths of 17 people following two days of terrorist attacks in
the French capital which began with the attack by two gunmen on the French
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo last Wednesday, followed by further incidents
in Paris including the siege at the Hypercasher supermarket.

Bill Connolly and Jane Foat who took part in the march in Liverpool today said
they have French students staying with them and joined the march to show their
"solidarity".

Joan told the ECHO: "We came to pay respect to those who were killed last week

"Charlie Hebdo is about humour and being able to have an opinion and a choice.

"It's not ridiculing but showing another side of life."

Alizee Bezzi, who is from France but working as a teaching assistant in
Liverpool, is one of those who organised the event.

She said she is sad and angry about the killings in her home country this week.

"Even in small towns in France people are gathering today," she said.

"I want to show them that although I'm abroad, I'm French and I support them.

"I was afraid people wouldn't come today but they have travelled from places
like Manchester and Warrington to march.

"I'm really glad people showed up to support this."

Many of the marchers carried 'Je suis Charlie' banners.

Among those attending today's march was Carla Monestier, from Crosby.

Carla, who is married to a French man, said: "We just wanted to show solidarity
towards those who were killed and demonstrate against terrorism."

Another participant was Ronnie Williams, from Huyton.

Ronnie, 60, has a friend in France and said he was taking part to show unity
with him and support freedom of speech.

Mr Moog told the ECHO ahead of the march: "People in France are organising
marches to support those who died and their families and though we are not in
France we think it's very important to give them our support."

The march took place over about an hour and saw participants walk from Derby
Square, near Liverpool Crown Court, around the city centre before heading back
for a minute's silence.

Last Friday a two minutes' silence was held at the first Liverpool council
cabinet meeting since the attack. Mayor Anderson said: "I have written to the
Mayor of Paris, and we will support them in any way we can."

Twelve people were killed when masked gunmen, later identified as brothers
Cherif and Said Kouachi, stormed the offices of the satirical magazine which had
previously published controversial cartoons featuring the Prophet Mohammed.

Eyewitnesses said the attackers claimed to belong to Al-Qaeda and shouted "we
have avenged the Prophet Mohammed" and "God is Great" in Arabic.

The attacks have been condemned by Muslim groups worldwide, and Irfan Ahmad,
president of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Association in Liverpool, said: "It is a great
source of regret that such violent acts and terrorist activities continue to be
associated with Islam - despite the fact they have nothing to do with Islam's
true teachings."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 9:34 PM GMT

Terror attack in Britain 'unlikely' despite thousands of potential radicals,
says Met police chief

BYLINE: JACK CRONE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 530 words



     ·    Met Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe says attack is possible
     ·    But claims it's unlikely and public must stay clam in wake of Paris
          killings
     ·    UK terrorist threat level currently at 'severe' - meaning attack
          highly likely
     ·    Theresa May says security will be tightened at UK ports and train
          station


The UK's most senior police officer has said a terror attack in Britain is
unlikely despite reports that the country is on the brink of raising the threat
level to its highest in seven years.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said an attack was
possible but called for the public to remain calm in the wake of the Paris
terror attacks.

He told Sky News: 'I don't think it's likely but I think we all know it's a
possibility - the threat level is severe and so therefore that means a terrorist
attack is possible.

Scroll down for video

'We do our best together with the security services to make sure the terrorists
don't succeed and that we keep people safe. To date, that's broadly what we've
been able to achieve.'

Britain's threat level was raised from 'substantial' to 'severe' in August last
year following the gains made by Islamic State in Syria and Iraq.

The Sunday Times today quoted senior security sources who warned that Britain is
poised to raise the terrorist threat level to 'critical' - the highest category.

A 'critical' threat level means that a terrorist attack is expected imminently,
while with 'severe' it is highly likely and 'moderate' means an attack is
possible but unlikely.

The last time it was at 'critical' was in June 2007 following failed terrorist
attacks at Glasgow airport and in London.

Claims that the threat level may be raised again come amid fears that Islamist
militants are planning a terrorist 'spectacular' in the West.

Andrew Parker, the head of MI5, said on Friday that a group of core al Qaida
terrorists in Syria is planning 'mass casualty attacks' against Western targets.

He also stated that a terror attack in Britain is 'highly likely'.

Aviation bomb plots and Mumbai-style shootings in crowded places are thought to
be among plans being developed by the shadowy 'Khorasan' cell, which has Britain
among its sights.

Home Secretary Theresa May announced that security would be tightened at British
ports and train stations after 17 victims were killed over three days in France.

In the UK, and across Europe, debate rages over the best methods to address and
tackle extremist views.

In Britain, a programme called Channel exists to counter the ideology of
Islamism and deradicalise young Muslims who are considered at risk of extremism.



By March last year, almost 4,000 people, 1,450 children among them, had been
referred for possible inclusion to the programme, an increase of 70 per cent
since 2013, The Telegraph reports.

A total of 777 people considered at risk of terrorism had been introduced to
Channel since it was founded, and the service is managing 'at least 300' active
cases, according to providers.

These include young people who have been intercepted at airports attempting to
fly to Syria, others whose siblings or friends have travelled to the country,
people radicalised in prison and even schoolchildren.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 8:48 PM GMT

One million march through Paris in display of unity in wake of French terror
attacks;
Prime Minister David Cameron was among dozens of world leaders who linked arms
as the streets of the French capital swelled with enormous crowds

BYLINE: By men

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 900 words


Paris March

More than one million people have marched through Paris and thousands more
gathered in cities around the world in a moving and defiant display of unity in
the wake of the France terror attacks.

Prime Minister David Cameron was among dozens of world leaders who linked arms
as the streets of the French capital swelled with enormous crowds in what was
believed to be largest demonstration in the country's history.

Ahead of the rally, French President Francois Hollande said: "Today, Paris is
the capital of the world." Mr Cameron later described the event as "very
moving".

At times there were scenes of sombre tribute to the 17 people killed when
Islamic extremists inflicted the country's deadliest terror attack since 1961,
but there was also an atmosphere of rousing patriotism and solidarity.

Similar gatherings were held in a string of cities around the world, including
Berlin, Madrid, Moscow, Beirut, Ramallah, New York, Tokyo, Sydney and Jerusalem.

In London crowds filled Trafalgar Square which was illuminated with the French
flag, while similar gestures of support took place at Tower Bridge and County
Hall. The Union Flag at Downing Street was also lowered to half mast.

Earlier, a video emerged showing terrorist Amedy Coulibaly defending the
atrocities as "completely legitimate" and swearing allegiance to Islamic State
(IS).

His girlfriend Hayat Boumeddiene remains on the run, amid reports that she may
have fled to Syria before all three killers died in co-ordinated police strikes
on Friday.

Coulibaly gunned down a police officer before killing four people in a Jewish
supermarket after co-conspirators Said and Cherif Kouachi massacred 12 people at
the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo on Wednesday.

They were finally cornered and died in the police assaults on Friday.

Today the vast crowds set off along two routes towards Place de la Nation,
walking boldly through streets that have been filled with fear since the Kouachi
brothers attacked the nearby offices of Charlie Hebdo.

An unprecedented security operation saw more than 5,000 police and soldiers
deployed to the streets as France remained on high alert.

Dozens of world leaders paused for a minute's silence before linking arms to
start the rally.

Prime Minister David Cameron, Mr Hollande and other heads of state broke into
spontaneous applause amid cheers, chants of "Charlie, Charlie" and gentle
choruses of the French national anthem La Marseillaise as the march got under
way at Place de la Republique.

With them were German chancellor Angela Merkel, the Spanish and Italian leaders,
the presidents of Niger, Mali and Gabon, and in a poignant gesture of
solidarity, Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian leader
Mahmoud Abbas.

The families of the victims were also among the vast crowds that set off through
the streets of Paris, including the partner of Charlie Hebdo editor Stephane
Charbonnier.

As the people gathered, waves of applause rippled out through the gridlocked
roads around Place de la Republique.

In the centre of the square a huge statue was draped with flags from across the
world, where marchers led their compatriots in chanting.

Demonstrators held countless banners and placards proclaiming the strength of
their feelings, with the slogan "Je Suis Charlie" adorning everything from
posters to T-Shirts, with the slogan daubed on many a face.

Some held messages of solidarity in Arabic, while others lifted pens and pencils
above their heads to show that materials are more powerful than the guns of
terrorists.

Among those pleading for change was Agnes Demongeot, who had made a placard
featuring what she hoped would be three values cherished by a new generation
alongside the republican trio of freedom, equality and brotherhood - tolerance,
intelligence and impertinence.

She reflected the views of many on the march in explaining that while Charlie
Hebdo played a key part in her own political education, she was proud that so
many of those around her were not fans of the magazine, but passionate
nonetheless about the need to defend freedom of speech.

Drawings and pictures in honour of the slain cartoonists, and a giant pencil
bearing the words "not afraid" was carried through the crowd. Others raised
posters to create a giant image apparently depicting the eyes and glasses of the
magazine's murdered editor, Stephanie Charbonnier.

A child's placard conveyed a simple message that encapsulated the tone of
defiance. It read: "When I grow up, I'll be a journalist. I'm not afraid."

As the march passed along Boulevard Voltaire, a lone police officer stood among
the chimney pots on the roof of a building next to the road raised a salute to
the crowd.

They in turn raised their own acknowledgement, shouting their gratitude and
calling out "merci, monsieur policier" - "thank you, Mr Policeman" - in
recognition of the risks he and his colleagues have taken in recent days.

Speaking after the rally, Mr Cameron told Channel 4 News: "It was very moving.
The size of the crowd was absolutely unbelievable but also the signs. I think
the one I will remember the most is the one that says Je Suis Charlie, Je Suis
Flic - I am police officer - et Je Suis Juif - I am a Jew.

"It is very meaningful to see people of all ages saying 'I want to be and I am
absolutely showing solidarity with those people who have suffered. When I grow
up, I'll be a journalist. I'm not afraid'."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 8:01 PM GMT

New York City cops warned of lone wolf terror attack risk - as memo tells
officers to 'watch civilians' hands, don't bunch up and always have a cop on
guard'

BYLINE: ASHLEY COLLMAN FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 291 words



     ·    Latest ISIS video released Saturday calls on supporters to carry out
          lone wolf in the U.S.
     ·    NYPD warned to take the video more seriously in light of Paris attack




As world leaders gather in Paris to mourn the victims of the Charlie Hebdo
massacre, police in New York City have been placed on high alert for a possible
ISIS attack.

The NYPD have been warned to look out for jihadi attacks after the terrorist
group released a call to attack American police officers, soldiers, intelligence
officers and civilians in a social media video on Saturday.

The warning says that these threats should be taken more seriously 'in light of
the terrorist attacks in France earlier this week' which resulted in the death
of more than a dozen people - most of them staff members of the satirical
newspaper.

'If you are assigned to a fixed post, do not sit together in the RMP [police
car],' members of the Sergeants Benevolent Association union were told in an
email obtain by both The New York Daily News and  New York Post.

'At least one officer must stand outside the vehicle at all times. Pay attention
to your surroundings. Officers must pay close attention to approaching
vehicles... Pay close attention to people as they approach. Look for their
hands.'

The video released on Saturday by ISIS starts with President Obama and British
Prime Minister David Cameron speaking about the terrorist group.

Then spokesman  Abu Mohamad Al-Adnani appears and says: 'Do not let the battle
pass you by wherever you may be. Strike their police, security and intelligence
members, as well as their treacherous agents.'

Al-Adnani horrifying instructions encourage supporters to smash a targets head
with a rock 'or slaughter him with a knife, or run him over with your car'

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 7:10 PM GMT

Anger as Rupert Murdoch says ALL Muslims should be held responsible for terror
attacks in France

BYLINE: KHALEDA RAHMAN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 606 words



     ·    Controversial media mogul took to Twitter after Paris terror attacks
     ·    Claims even peaceful Muslims must take responsibility for 'jihadist
          cancer'
     ·    Maintained stance, adding 'political correctness' makes for 'denial'
     ·    His words sparked a storm with users on the social network
     ·    But also prompted ridicule - with white men, journalists, Australians
          and men called Rupert apologising on his behalf


Rupert Murdoch has sparked outrage after saying all Muslims should be held
responsible for the actions of jihadists.

The controversial media mogul took to Twitter after three days of terrorist
atrocities in Paris.

The News Corp boss suggested that even peaceful Muslims must take responsibility
for the actions of terrorists until the 'jihadist cancer' is destroyed.

He wrote: 'Maybe most Moslems peaceful, but until they recognize and destroy
their growing jihadist cancer they must be held responsible.'

He then maintained his stance, telling more than 500,000 followers that
'political correctness' made for 'denial and hypocrisy'.

He added: 'Big jihadist danger looming everywhere from Philippines to Africa to
Europe to US.

'Political correctness makes for denial and hypocrisy.'

His words sparked a storm on the social network, with many Muslim users outraged
as Murdoch appeared to lay the blame for the terrorist attacks on satirical
newspaper Charlie Hebdo and a kosher supermarket on an entire religion, which
has more than a billion followers.

One user blasted his sweeping generalisation, and said: '"they" as in most
Muslims????? You can't hold an entire religion of billions responsive [sic] for
the actions of a few'

Erwin Renaldi said: 'I'm really sad reading this. Insulting my faith and I have
nothing to do with the extremists and I can do nothing.'

Simon Edhouse added: 'Rupert, is West responsible for our extremists, Anders
Breivik? etc'

Harry Potter author J. K. Rowling condemned Murdoch's comments, writing: 'I was
born Christian. If that makes Rupert Murdoch my responsibility, I'll
auto-excommunicate.'

She then added: 'The Spanish Inquisition was my fault, as is all Christian
fundamentalist violence. Oh, and Jim Bakker.'

Bakker is a disgraced pastor and televangelist who resigned amid a sex scandal,
and later served five years of an original 45-year prison sentence for fraud and
conspiracy, after stealing millions from charitable donations.

Others questioned Murdoch's own morals, and referred to the phone-hacking
scandal at the now-defunct News of the World newspaper.

Michael Monan replied: '@rupertmurdoch In the same way that you must be held
responsible for ordering the hacking of the voicemails of dead school children?'

Murdoch's words also prompted ridicule - with white men, journalists,
Australians and men called Rupert apologising on his behalf.

The creator of BBC sitcom Citizen Khan, Adil Ray, who said: 'I think all of
Australia should be held responsible for Rupert Murdoch.'

Matt Haig added: 'Rupert Murdoch thinks all Muslims should apologise for
terrorism. So on behalf of white people I'd like to apologise for Rupert
Murdoch.'

Richard Robbins said: 'Am I to be held responsible for the rantings of
octogenarian media moguls because we're both Caucasian?'

Another user joked: 'Maybe most Ruperts peaceful, but until they recognize and
destroy cancerous media dinosaur @rupertmurdoch, they must be held responsible.'

To which, Rupert Franklin replied: 'I'd like to offer an apology on behalf of us
all. Murdoch's comments don't represent the views of mainstream Rupert
community.'

And Matt Haig added: 'Rupert Murdoch wrote a tweet. As someone who uses Twitter
I would like to apologise on his behalf.'

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 4:39 PM GMT

A city on edge: Euro Disney hotel evacuated and armed police sent to synagogue
and pharmacy to false reports of shootings as fear of fresh terror attacks grips
Paris

BYLINE: CLAIRE DUFFIN IN PARIS and JAY AKBAR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 648 words


https://twitter.com/AndreKnulst/status/553877467640111104
https://twitter.com/AndreKnulst/status/553863759341821952

https://twitter.com/AndreKnulst/status/553877467640111104
https://twitter.com/AndreKnulst/status/553863759341821952

https://twitter.com/AndreKnulst/status/553877467640111104
https://twitter.com/AndreKnulst/status/553863759341821952

https://twitter.com/AndreKnulst/status/553877467640111104
https://twitter.com/AndreKnulst/status/553863759341821952

https://twitter.com/AndreKnulst/status/553877467640111104
https://twitter.com/AndreKnulst/status/553863759341821952

https://twitter.com/AndreKnulst/status/553877467640111104
https://twitter.com/AndreKnulst/status/553863759341821952

A Euro Disney spokesman told MailOnline: 'At 11.30am Paris time on Saturday,
January 10, the Sequoia Lodge Hotel at Disneyland Paris was briefly evacuated
following a security incident, which turned out to be a false alarm.

'As a precaution a number of guests were taken into the hotel car park as is
usual resort procedure.

'The whole process, which mainly concerned the lobby area, lasted less than an
hour, with the safety cordon lifted quickly and the rest of the resort was not
affected in any way.'

France's President has warned its citizens to remain vigilant in the wake of a
brutal attack on the Charlie Hebdo magazine, the fatal shooting of a policewoman
and a deadly showdown between a hostage-taker and police at a Jewish
supermarket.

The French Defence Ministry has placed 500 extra soldiers on patrol around Paris
to calm nerves in the wake of the attacks. Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve
said France will keep its highest possible security level in the greater Paris
area.

Initial reports of a gunman in the theme park yesterday morning conflicted with
separate accounts that police were investigating a bomb threat.

And according to  Le Parisien, a woman was arrested after shouting from her
window that she was Hayat Boumeddiene, who's wanted in connection to the hostage
drama which left five people - including the killer - dead in Vincennes
yesterday.

The evacuation was eventually dismissed as a false alarm, as were reports of a
potential shooting at a synagogue.

At around 1pm, armed officers were called to rue Armand Carrel, Paris, following
reports that a number of shots had been fired outside the Jewish place of
worship.

Dozens of officers sped to the scene and the road was closed sparking concerns
another terror attack was underway, following two days of violence in the city.

Pictures show police on the scene, with one officer pictured with his gun drawn.



But police sources later told Le Figaro newspaper that the shots heard in the
19th arrondisment were in fact from firecrackers - adding a 'nervous' resident
had called police.

There was a large police and military presence across the city on Saturday, with
armed officers and soldiers patrolling public buildings and stations.

Rumours on social media that hostages were being held inside a pharmacy in
Jaures, have also been been rubbished.

Meanwhile, hundreds of Parisiens were laying flowers at the Jewish deli where
four people were killed by convicted Islamist, Amedy Coulibaly, yesterday.

Dozens of armed policeman stood guard at an extended security area outside the
Hyper Cacher store, as grief-stricken locals paid their tributes to the dead.

It was one of two separate sieges brought to an abrupt and bloody end yesterday,
following three days of constant terror in the French capital.

Police commandos stormed the Jewish grocery store in a storm of bullets and stun
grenades, killing an Al Qaeda-linked gunman who was holding 15 hostages.

Twelve minutes earlier, and only 25 miles away, another stand-off ended with the
deaths of Charlie Hebdo killers, Said and Cherif Kouachi.

Firing their Kalashnikovs, they charged straight into the guns of hundreds of
soldiers and police surrounding their final hideout.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 1:13 PM GMT

It is 'lazy' to claim the Paris terror attacks had nothing to do with Islam and
British Muslims need to do more to tackle extremism, says minister

BYLINE: TOM MCTAGUE, DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 677 words



     ·    Sajid Javid says there is 'no getting away' from fact terrorists were
          Muslim
     ·    The Culture Secretary is Britain's most senior Muslim politician
     ·    He became the first Muslim Conservative MP after being elected in 2010
     ·    Javid, the son of Pakistani immigrants, promoted to the Cabinet in
          April


Britain's first elected Muslim Cabinet minister has said it is 'lazy' to claim
Islam had nothing to do with last week's terror attacks in France.

Culture Secretary Sajid Javid said there was 'no getting away' from the fact
that the terrorists called themselves Muslims.

Mr Javid also called on British Muslims to do more to tackle extremism -
claiming they had a 'special burden' because so many of the attacks were carried
out by fanatics who claim inspiration from Islam.

The former banker, who became the first Muslim Tory MP after being elected in
2010, attacked the 'barbaric' terrorists responsible for last week's atrocities.

Mr Javid said: 'The lazy answer from people out there is to say that this had
got nothing whatsoever to do with Islam and Muslims and that should be the end
of that part of the debate.

'That is lazy and that would be wrong. You can't get away from the fact that
these people are using Islam, they are taking a great religion, a peaceful
religion of a billion people around the world, taking this religion and using it
as their tool to carry out their horrible activities.'

Mr Javid said because of this there was a 'special burden' on Muslims to deal
with Islamic extremism.

He said: 'All communities can do more to try and help and deal with terrorists,
try and help track them down, but I think it is absolutely fair to say that
there is a special burden on Muslim communities, because whether we like it or
not, these terrorists call themselves Muslims.

'It is no good for people to say they are not Muslims, that is what they call
themselves. They do try to take what is a great peaceful religion and warp it
for their own means.'

Mr Javid said that the Government's anti-terror legislation needed to be
stronger.

He said: 'Actually, ever since 9/11, and the terrible bus bombings in London,
Governments has taken this issue seriously.

'There have been a number of measures to de-radicalise and prevent
radicalisation in the first place, and the question is, does it need to be
tougher? I think the answer is yes.

The Culture Secretary also rejected the suggestion that Governments should step
in on matters involving newspaper articles deemed to be offensive.

The former banker said: 'Most people would accept in our country just as in any
free country, we have a balance of laws that are there to protect people but
also to protect their right to freedom of speech and freedom of expression. That
is absolutely vital, that is something we can never let go of.

"When a newspaper decides to do, or a magazine or TV channel for that matter, it
is up to them, it has got nothing to do with the Government. It never should
have.

'People can still object to something they don't like in a paper or magazine,
but that doesn't mean to say that it can't be published. That is freedom, that
is how it works.

'There is no role for government to tell any media organisation what they should
or should not publish. It is what makes us such a special society."

Mr Javid ducked a question on whether the UK threat level was likely to be
raised, saying those decisions were for security professionals.

He said: 'We remain vigilant at all times, naturally and if the threat level
changes than that is a decision by the professionals.

'What we have seen though in recent days as well is through Parliament we have
had the counter terrorism bill going through, which I think is a demonstration
of even while these acts were unfolding in Paris, we were debating these issues
in Parliament and making sure our security forces, our police, have the tools
that they need to do the job.

'I think most people would accept that you need to make sure that the laws that
you have, some that you have relied on in the past, are kept up to date, and
especially in the face of modern technology.'

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 12:58 AM GMT

Anger as Rupert Murdoch says ALL Muslims should be held responsible for terror
attacks in France

BYLINE: KHALEDA RAHMAN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 462 words



     ·    Controversial media mogul took to Twitter after Paris terror attacks
     ·    Claims even peaceful Muslims must take responsibility for 'jihadist
          cancer'
     ·    His words sparked a storm on the social network who expressed disgust
     ·    Maintained stance, adding 'political correctness' makes for 'denial'


Rupert Murdoch has sparked outrage after saying all Muslims should be held
responsible for the actions of jihadists.

The controversial media mogul took to Twitter after three days of terrorist
atrocities in Paris.

The News Corp boss suggested that even peaceful Muslims must take responsibility
for the actions of terrorists until the 'jihadist cancer' is destroyed.

He wrote: 'Maybe most Moslems peaceful, but until they recognize and destroy
their growing jihadist cancer they must be held responsible.'

He then maintained his stance, telling more than 500,000 followers that
'political correctness' made for 'denial and hypocrisy'.

He added: 'Big jihadist danger looming everywhere from Philippines to Africa to
Europe to US.

'Political correctness makes for denial and hypocrisy.'

His words sparked a storm on the social network, with many Muslim users outraged
as Murdoch appeared to lay the blame for the terrorist attacks on satirical
newspaper Charlie Hebdo and a kosher supermarket on an entire religion, which
has more than a billion followers.

One user blasted his sweeping generalisation, and said: '"they" as in most
Muslims????? You can't hold an entire religion of billions responsive [sic] for
the actions of a few'

Erwin Renaldi said: 'I'm really sad reading this. Insulting my faith and I have
nothing to do with the extremists and I can do nothing.'

Simon Edhouse added: 'Rupert, is West responsible for our extremists, Anders
Breivik? etc'

Richard Robbins said: 'Am I to be held responsible for the rantings of
octogenarian media moguls because we're both Caucasian?'

Others questioned Murdoch's own morals, and cited his role in the phone-hacking
scandal at the now-defunct News of the World newspaper.

Michael Monan replied: '@rupertmurdoch In the same way that you must be held
responsible for ordering the hacking of the voicemails of dead school children?'

Others ridiculed the comments, including the creator of BBC sitcom Citizen Khan,
Adil Ray, who said: 'I think all of Australia should be held responsible for
Rupert Murdoch.'

Another user joked: 'Maybe most Ruperts peaceful, but until they recognize and
destroy cancerous media dinosaur @rupertmurdoch, they must be held responsible.'

To which, Rupert Franklin replied: 'I'd like to offer an apology on behalf of us
all. Murdoch's comments don't represent the views of mainstream Rupert
community.'

And Matt Haig added: 'Rupert Murdoch wrote a tweet. As someone who uses Twitter
I would like to apologise on his behalf.'

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 12:32 AM GMT

Revealed: Police stopped watching Paris killers six months ago after terror cell
of kosher deli attacker and his crossbow jihadi wife - who has fled to Syria -
were deemed 'low-risk'

BYLINE: PETER ALLEN IN PARIS FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1493 words



     ·    Hayat Boumeddiene, 26, is the 'wife' of gunman Amedy Coulibaly
     ·    He killed a policewoman and then four hostages in a kosher bakery
     ·    Police source said Boumeddiene flew to Turkey via Madrid on January 2
     ·    She was believed to have crossed the Turkey- Syria border on Thursday
     ·    Police are interrogating wives of Kouachi brothers in a bid to trace
          her
     ·    500 phone calls were made between Boumeddiene and one of the Kouachi
          brothers's wives
     ·    Coulibaly was killed as commandos stormed the kosher bakery


The world's most wanted female terrorist has fled to Syria, it was revealed last
night - as police admitted they stopped surveillance on her deadly Parisian cell
six months ago because they were deemed 'low-risk'.

Hayat Boumeddiene, the widow of one of the gunmen who massacred 17 civilians in
the French capital - is now thought to be with her murderous Islamic State
allies after fleeing the country. Official sources in Paris said that 24-hour
scrutiny of members of her terror cell had been dropped to focus on other
targets.

Last night, Boumeddiene, 26, was branded 'armed and dangerous' by France's top
policeman Jean-Marc Falcone, who said she was believed to have helped plan the
attacks.

As long as five years ago she was pictured in full Islamic dress and using a
lethal crossbow in the French countryside where she met jihadi recruiters. She
and the three Paris killers were all known to the security services. Yet despite
their fanatical hatred of the West and access to weapons, police decided to stop
tracking them in July 2014.

It has emerged that hundreds of phone calls between Boumeddiene and Izzana
Hamyd, wife of Cherif Kouachi, have shown up on mobile records. Five hundred in
all were made last year.

Boumeddiene was reported to have flown from Madrid to Istanbul on January 2,
crossing the Turkish border into Syria on Thursday.

This was the day after brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi, murdered 12 people at
the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo. It was also the day her
husband, Amedy Coulibaly, murdered a female police officer before shooting four
hostages at a kosher delicatessen in Eastern Paris. The suggestion is that
Boumeddiene knew the attacks were due to take place and fled.

Her husband and the Kouachi brothers were all gunned down by police commandos at
the end of two sieges on Friday. Last night, as France remained on high alert,
extraordinary stories of courage emerged from those caught up in the deadly
attacks:

- A heroic customer at the kosher deli grabbed one of Coulibaly's guns - but
paid with his life after the weapon jammed

- A Muslim worker at the shop helped Jewish customers hide from the terrorist,
in what was hailed as an inspiring act of bravery

- A father told how he and his three-year-old son had tried to hide from
Coulibaly in the store basement, but was forced to follow the gunman's orders
until police launched their raid, killing the terrorist in a hail of bullets as
he ran out of the shop's doors

- A hostage revealed how he bandaged a neck wound suffered by Charlie Hebdo
murderer Said Kouachi, after the brothers took shelter at his printing works

Meanwhile, the family of a Muslim police officer shot dead by the brothers
described them as 'madmen' with no religion.

Up to a million people, including David Cameron and other world leaders, are
expected to join a march for peace and unity in Paris today. Counter-terrorism
ministers including Home Secretary Theresa May will also meet to discuss the
West's response to the growing threat of Islamist violence.

In London, landmarks including Tower Bridge and Trafalgar Square will display
the colours of the French flag to show solidarity.

Security patrols were also being stepped up across London amid increased fears
of attacks on Jewish communities. And Scotland Yard is asking travellers
returning to Britain from France if they saw 'any suspicious activity' while
away.

Boumeddiene and her co-conspirators were put under phone, internet and physical
surveillance at the end of 2011, when Said Kouachi returned from Yemen, where he
trained with Al Qaeda. There he met Anwar Al-Awlaki, a terrorist mastermind
later killed in a US drone strike.

'But between that date and the summer of 2014, nothing suggested any connection
with a radical Islamist movement,' said a Paris judicial source. 'So the
surveillance was stopped in order to refocus on other individuals who at that
moment presented a higher risk.'

From bikini beach girl... to jihadi with her crossbow

Wearing a skimpy bikini as she embraces her muscular boyfriend, she looks like
any other attractive young beachgoer on the French Riviera.

But the once-glamorous Hayat Boumeddiene, 26, is now the most wanted female
terrorist suspect in the world. She is reported to have fled to Syria before her
32-year-old husband Amedy Coulibaly - the smiling young man in the picture -
murdered four Jews in a Paris deli.

There were suggestions yesterday that Boumeddiene had helped her husband, along
with fellow terrorists Said and Cherif Kouachi, compile an arsenal of weapons
which Paris prosecutors said included two Russian-made Tokarev machine pistols,
commercial explosives and hunting knives.

It is thought that the firearms were smuggled from the Balkans into Europe, and
then into France by car - something a single woman is likely to have been able
to get away with far easier than men.

As detectives try to learn more about the group responsible for France's worst
terrorist outrage this century, they know that piecing together Boumeddiene's
transformation from a relaxed young woman into a terrorist training with a
crossbow will be essential. The former supermarket cashier is said to have been
radicalised by the man she would go on to marry in an Islamic, rather than
civil, ceremony.

Like her husband, Boumeddiene was born into a large family of seven children,
but when she was just six her mother died.

She is from an Algerian background and family members altered their surname to
'make it sound more French', according to an investigating source.

Estranged from her father, Boumeddiene ended up in care, relying on social
workers to bring her up.

She was in her early 20s when she met Coulibaly in Juvisy, the rundown Paris
suburb where he was brought up. Questioned by police at his home in Nanterre,
another Paris suburb, Boumeddiene's father yesterday said he was 'shocked and
horrified' to learn his daughter was involved with a terrorist cell.

She told police who interviewed her in 2010 as part of their inquiries into
Coulibaly's dealings with Islamic extremists that she had walked away from a
low-paid job as a cashier in 2009 and began wearing an Islamic veil, the kind
that is now illegal in France.

Boumeddiene said that she was inspired by her husband and the radicals she lived
with to 'read a lot of books on religion, and because of this I came to ask
questions on religion'.

She added: 'When I saw the massacre of the innocents in Palestine, in Iraq, in
Chechnya, in Afghanistan or anywhere the Americans sent their bombers, all
that... well, who are the terrorists?'

She said that when Americans killed innocents, it was the right of men to defend
their women and children - one of the reasons she said she started weapons
training. Along with Coulibaly, she was pictured in 2010 visiting a convicted Al
Qaeda terrorist, mentor Djamel Beghal - who was radicalised at the Finsbury Park
mosque in North London - while he was under house arrest in Murat, Central
France.

When police questioned her and said they knew she and Coulibaly had visited
Beghal at the same time as Cherif Kouachi and two other convicted terrorists -
jihadi recruiter Ahmed Laidouni and Farid Melouk of the Armed Islamic State
terror group - she replied: 'We went there for crossbow practice.'

Until recently the couple lived in Bagneux, a suburb of Paris where they were
known as a devoutly religious, despite Coulibaly's regular run-ins with the law.

To neighbours, the pair were quiet and respectful. But while Boumeddiene had no
criminal record, Coulibaly has a long history of both petty and serious crimes.

The only boy of a family of ten in Juvisy, he first came to police attention as
a 17-year-old. Convictions for theft and drug offences followed and he was
arrested for an attempted armed robbery on a bank in Orleans in September 2002.

Boumeddiene, who was never seen in public without her veil, waited four years
for Coulibaly to come out of jail after his conviction for armed robbery.

She met the younger of the Kouachi brothers, Cherif, at a time when the pair
were linked with a jihadist recruitment ring that sent fighters to Iraq. Cherif
was convicted in 2008 and sentenced to three years in jail, with 18 months
suspended, for his association with the underground organisation. He had wanted
to fly to Iraq via Syria and was found with a manual for a Kalashnikov - the
automatic weapon used in last week's outrages.

...and her husband's bloody journey from Finsbury Park mentor to death at deli

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 9:16 AM GMT

Lassana Bathily: the Paris kosher supermarket hero;
Shopworker hid customers in a cold store then escaped via liftParis attacks: 1m
expected for anti-terror rally - live

BYLINE: Lin Jenkins

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 319 words


A man who hid a group of shoppers, one with a baby, in a basement cold storage
room at the Hyper Cacher supermarket to shield them from the gunman has been
hailed a hero.

Lassana Bathily, 24, a Muslim shop assistant originally from Mali, in west
Africa, was praised for risking his own life to save those led to safety.

"When they came running down I opened the door of the fridge," he told French
TV. "Several came in with me. I turned off the light and the fridge. When I
turned off the cold, I put them in. I closed the door. I told them to stay calm
and I said 'you stay quiet there, I'm going back out'."

Police originally thought Bathily was a conspirator when he managed to escape
through a goods lift. "They told me, 'get down on the ground, hands over your
head'. They cuffed me and held me for an hour and a half as if I was with them,"
he added. Once freed he was able to give them details of the layout of the store
and where people were hiding.

After the shootout he said that many of the customers he had helped came out and
shook his hand. "When they got out, they thanked me," he said.

Several people took to social media to call for him to be officially recognised
for his bravery as news of his actions spread. One tweet said: "A true hero of
the hostage crisis in the kosher grocery store yesterday.'

Another read "Lassana Bathily, Muslim worker at Paris kosher shop, hid people,
incl. baby." A photograph of Bathily, labelled Malian Muslim, has been retweeted
around the world as a symbol of the good of some people in the face of
terrorism.

One of those trapped in the cold store Johan Dorre, 36, a father of four, was
able to call his uncle and say he was trapped two floors below the ground floor.
Another uncle, Jacob Katorza, said: "Johan and the others were terrified that
they would be discovered by the terrorists and were forced to huddle together
like frightened animals to avoid hypothermia."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBONS


                   Copyright 2015 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 9:05 AM GMT

'France will shout its love for liberty and tolerance. Come in numbers';
One million expected in Paris as a country unites in grief and defiance Paris
attacks: 1m expected for anti-terror rally - live

BYLINE: Jon Henley in Paris and Emma Graham-Harrison

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 932 words


Up to a million people - including dozens of world leaders - will converge on
Paris on Sunday in a show of defiance and unity after terrorist attacks that
left 17 people dead last week in the French capital.

In what will be one of the most significant and emotional public gatherings in
postwar French history, President François Hollande will be joined by David
Cameron, Angela Merkel and the Italian prime minister, Matteo Renzi, in an
unprecedented solidarity march through the centre of the city.

The French capital has been in shock since the massacre of 12 people at the
offices of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo by two French-born brothers who
claimed to be avenging the prophet Muhammad. The horror and fear were amplified
when another attacker gunned down a traffic policewoman on Thursday and returned
to shoot four shoppers at a Jewish supermarket on Friday. All three attackers
were killed in shootouts on Friday. The French prime minister, Manuel Valls,
said Sunday's demonstration would be "a cry for freedom" and a reassertion of
"the values of 1789 ... It will be an unusual demonstration that will no doubt
go down in history. It will show the strength and dignity of the French people,
who will shout their love for liberty and tolerance. Come in numbers."

Amid a swirl of hostile rhetoric, including from media mogul Rupert Murdoch who
said on Twitter that all Muslims should be held responsible for the Paris
attacks, the family of the Muslim policeman gunned down outside the Charlie
Hebdo office spoke out for the first time. Ahmed Merabet was proud of his job
and of the country he died defending, they said. "I address this to all the
racists, the Islamophobes and the antisemites: you mustn't mix up extremism with
Muslims," said Ahmed's brother, Malik Merabet. "The madmen have no colour nor
religion. Islam is a religion of peace, of love ... my brother was a Muslim and
he was killed by two terrorists, by false Muslims."

Six of the supermarket hostages, including a toddler and his father, were saved
by a Muslim store employee, Lassana Bathily, who hid them and then risked his
life to conceal their presence.

"When they came running down [into the basement] I opened the door of the
fridge," he told French channel BFM TV. "Several came in with me. I turned off
the light and the fridge. I closed the door and I said 'You stay quiet there -
I'm going back out'." The four hostages killed in the attack on the Jewish
supermarket were named as Yoav Hattab, Philippe Braham, Yohan Cohen and
François-Michel Saada. The Conseil Représentatif des Institutions Juives de
France, the main French Jewish umbrella organisation, condemned the antisemitic
nature of the attack, saying: "These French fellow citizens were slaughtered
coldly and pitilessly, because they were Jewish."

Travel on public transport in and around Paris will be free on Sunday to allow
hundreds of thousands to get to and from the demonstration, and at least one
train operator has cut prices for people coming from other cities. Around
250,000 people had already joined marches in other French cities on Saturday.

The government has promised a massive security operation to keep marchers safe
amid fear of another attack. Police are hunting Hayat Boumeddiene, the
26-year-old partner of supermarket killer Amedy Coulibaly, who they say may have
been an accomplice in Thursday's shooting. On the run now, she was close to
extremist friends of her husband, and could be armed and dangerous. But there
were reports that Boumeddiene had flown to Turkey on 2 January and was in Syria
by the end of last week.

"There will be a public order plan of exceptional magnitude to make sure the
rally goes well and to guarantee maximum security," said French interior
minister Bernard Cazeneuve. "The terror alert will be maintained at its highest
level in the Ile-de-France."

At least 500 extra military personnel will be on duty in the greater Paris
region. Thousands of uniformed and plain-clothes police stationed in and around
the march will be looking out for potential attackers trying to drive into
marchers, or taking up positions on rooftops or balconies, a police source told
the AFP news agency.

Cameron will fly out to Paris on Sunday to attend the march, and London
landmarks including Tower Bridge and Trafalgar Square will show the colours of
the French flag from 4pm. The attacks in France will be high on the agenda when
Cameron visits Washington for talks with President Barack Obama on Thursday and
Friday.

A "survivors' issue" of Charlie Hebdo will be published on Wednesday and will be
sold outside France because of the huge global attention - marking a turnaround
for a publication that just a week ago seemed on the brink of folding. One
million copies will be printed instead of the usual 60,000.

The French government, newspapers and companies around the world have pitched in
cash, transportation and other help to ensure the issue reaches an unprecedented
audience. All money from the sales will go to the families of the 12 people
murdered in the attack on Wednesday.

Keeping Charlie Hebdo in print is being seen in France as an act of defiance
against the Islamists who sought to extinguish it, and as a statement in support
of free speech. However, the attacks have also emboldened militants and their
sympathisers, the Associated Press reported, with supporters of jihadist groups
on Twitter and other social media lionising the Kouachi brothers. They have been
organising under the Arabic hashtags #Parisattack and #Parisisburning, with some
calling the newspaper assault a holy attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBONS


                   Copyright 2015 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 1:07 PM BST

TERROR ATTACK IN UK 'UNLIKELY'

BYLINE: Alex Diaz, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 329 words


The UK's most senior police officer has said a terror attack in Britain is
unlikely despite reports that the country is on the brink of raising the threat
level to its highest in seven years.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said an attack was
possible but called for the public to remain calm in the wake of the Paris
terror attacks.

He told Sky News: ``I don't think it's likely but I think we all know it's a
possibility - the threat level is severe and so therefore that means a terrorist
attack is possible.

``We do our best together with the security services to make sure the terrorists
don't succeed and that we keep people safe. To date, that's broadly what we've
been able to achieve.''

Britain's threat level was raised from ``substantial'' to ``severe'' in August
last year following the gains made by Islamic State in Syria and Iraq.

The Sunday Times today quoted senior security sources who warned that Britain is
poised to raise the terrorist threat level to ``critical'' - the highest
category.

A ``critical'' threat level means that a terrorist attack is expected
imminently, while with ``severe'' it is highly likely and ``moderate'' means an
attack is possible but unlikely.

The last time it was at ``critical'' was in June 2007 following failed terrorist
attacks at Glasgow airport and in London.

Claims that the threat level may be raised again come amid fears that Islamist
militants are planning a terrorist ``spectacular'' in the West.

Andrew Parker, the head of MI5, said on Friday that a group of core al Qaida
terrorists in Syria is planning ``mass casualty attacks'' against Western
targets.

Aviation bomb plots and Mumbai-style shootings in crowded places are thought to
be among plans being developed by the shadowy ``Khorasan'' cell, which has
Britain among its sights.

Home Secretary Theresa May announced that security would be tightened at British
ports and train stations after 17 victims were killed over three days in France.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 06:28 AM GMT

Police Chief: 'UK Terror Attack Unlikely'

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 375 words



HIGHLIGHT: As Britain's terror threat level continues to be at its highest level
in several years, the UK's most senior policeman has told Sky News he believes
an attack is possible - but unlikely.


  In August last year, the Government raised Britain's terror threat level from
"substantial" to "severe" because of the threat from militant groups in the
Middle East, such as the Islamic State.

In the wake of the Paris terror attacks, Home Secretary Theresa May announced
that security would be bolstered at British ports and train stations.

And just days ago M15 chief Andrew Parker warned that the UK faced a threat of
"complex and ambitious plots" by extremists.

But in an exclusive interview with Sky, Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir
Bernard Hogan-Howe said the public should remain calm.

"I don't think it's likely but I think we all know it's a possibility - the
threat level is severe and so therefore that means a terrorist attack is
possible.

"We do our best together with the security services to make sure the terrorists
don't succeed and that we keep people safe. To date, that's broadly what we've
been able to achieve."

Sir Bernard's primary concern is the hundreds of Britons who have travelled to
Syria and Iraq to fight alongside extremist groups, and who could bring that
fight back to the streets of Britain.

He says families need to work with the police to prevent their children leaving
in the first place.

"The task is to get in there before they go, then we can talk to them and talk
to the charities who can help them and persuade them of the foolishness of what
they're about to embark on.

"There's no structure in these countries. There is no law. So they only law
they've got is the gun. That's the sort of country they're going to."

:: Watch Sky News Special Report: Paris Attack at 2.30am, 5.30am, and 8.30pm.
See it on skynews.com, our mobile apps and on Sky News - channels Sky 501,
Virgin Media 602, Freesat 202, Freeview 132.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

VIDEO:

But Met Commissioner Says Security Services Need Considerable Powers

Despite heightened security in the UK following the Paris attacks, Britain's
most senior policeman has told Sky News a terrorist strike here is possible, but
not likely. In an exclusive interview, Met Police Commissioner Sir Bernard
Hogan-Howe has called for security services to be given all the powers they need
to tackle the threat of extremism. David Bowden reports.

Link to Video

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            January 11, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

COPS WATCHING 100 ISLAMISTS IN IRELAND;
TERROR ON STREETS ; ?'Lone wolf' attack fear ?Kids see jihadi videos

BYLINE: STEPHEN BREEN;MARK MAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 400 words


UP to 100 Islamic terror suspects are living in Ireland, we can reveal.

And the Gardai's Counter Terrorism International Unit - established last year by
Garda Special Branch - fear fundamentalists could stage a "lone wolf" attack
here.

Officers are also concerned about videos of fighting in Syria being shared among
school pupils across the country.

We also understand a special meeting was held this week between the Gardai and
Department of Justice after Wednesday's barbaric gun attack at the Charlie Hebdo
magazine in Paris.

Anti-terror cops from the Special Detective Unit continue to monitor suspected
jihadists travelling from Ireland to Syria and Iraq.

Also in their sights are al-Qaeda and ISIS supporters raising cash for the
terrorist groups here.

A source said: "The threat posed by Islamic fundamentalists in Ireland cannot be
dismissed. "Any attack is more likely to come from someone operating alone.

"The threat is very real and gardai are continuing to monitor persons of
interest - especially those travelling to places like Syria but also those
engaged in providing finance and support."

Another source warned that videos of fighting in Syria and Iraq are being passed
around by kids in the playground.

He said: "It's all up on YouTube.

Where we used to pass around football stickers, some of these young kids are
passing around jihadi videos. It's unbelievable how young they are getting
them."

Fears of an attack here soared this week after preacher Anjem Choudary claimed
Ireland was a "legitimate target" for allowing US bombers to land at Shannon.

He said: "The Irish claim that it is neutral is not something which has been
bought by Muslims around the world.

"You allow the Americans, who are the biggest butchers in the world, to stop at
Shannon Airport to refuel and go on to kill people in Muslim countries."

We can also reveal the elite French cops who shot dead Said Kouachi, 34, and his
brother Cherif, 32, for the attack which left 12 people dead in the French
capital, were trained by the Gardai's Emergency Response Unit in Dublin last
month.

A spokeswoman for the Gardai told the Irish Sun on Sunday the force "remains
alert to the potential threat arising from the significant events unfolding in
Syria and Iraq".

She added that while the threat level is deemed to be "low", this assessment is
under constant review, particularly after the UK raised its level to severe.

@SteBreen

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Warning ... ChoudaryThreat ... gardai monitoring extremist Islamic
fighters from Middle East

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 10:23 PM GMT

Paris attacks: Special forces hit Amedy Coulibaly with 40 bullets;
Tributes have been paid to the 17 victims of the Paris terrorist attacks, as
startling accounts of the Vincennes supermarket siege were told for the first
time

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 917 words


The first photo from inside the supermarket, taken during the siege, was
revealed last night - showing a man, thought to be Rudy Hada, hidden in the
freezer in the basement of the Hyper Cacher besides a young woman and Sarah
Bitton, a 20-year-old Belgian cradling her baby.

And the photo emerged as members of France's special forces recounted the events
of Friday afternoon - telling how they had worked for over 50 hours straight
before the raid; how Amedy Coulibaly, the jihadi gunman, attempted to barter to
free the hostages; and how they eventually stormed the store and killed
Coulibaly in a hail of over 40 bullets.

Coulibaly, 32, walked into the Jewish supermarket at 1pm on Friday, killing four
people inside and taking a further 17 hostage. He was a close associate of the
Kouachi brothers, who at that same moment were besieged in a factory in
Dammartin-en-Goele, 20 miles to the north east of Vincennes.

"When that attack begun, we were suddenly not tired any more," said Jean-Pierre,
one of the members of the Raid police. "It was a shot of adrenalin."

Another of the special forces officers, named as "Stan" in Le Parisien, said
that as soon as they arrived at the scene, they began to assess the location.

"We moved forwards in an assault column before taking our positions close to the
shop," he said. "We had made several circuits of the supermarket and got very
close. We wanted to see what state the entry points were in, in order to plan
our assault."

At first they wanted to take him alive. But, on observing his behaviour, they
realised he wanted to die in a shoot-out with the police.

"Sincerely, one of the things that most motivated us was that video of the
odious assassination of our colleague Ahmed Merabet outside Charlie," said
Jean-Pierre. "We all had that image in our heads."

Stan said that they were initially told there were five hostages inside, but
that figure could not be confirmed.

"We had managed to make telephone contact with one of the clients who was hiding
in the cold store in the basement. They told us that there was a one-month-old
baby inside that room. The baby would only have survived for two hours inside
there. But we were able to cut the electricity."

It was this response which likely saved the life of Miss Bitton's baby.

In the picture, Miss Bitton - the daughter of a kosher butchers in Uccle,
Belgium, who has lived in Paris for many years - is seen looking down at her
11-month-old child, wrapped in her black puffer jacket. Mr Hada stares forlornly
at the camera.

Above their heads, Coulibaly had pulled down the shutters around the shop, but
the police realised it was possible to see inside. Six hostages were on the
ground floor.

"Our snipers could not risk taking a shot at him, because there were advertising
posters all over the windows and it was impossible to get a clean shot," said
Stan.

The terrorist then told the hostage negotiator, who had managed to establish
telephone communications, that he wanted to be allowed to broadcast live on a TV
channel - in exchange for releasing a boy of around ten years old. The
authorities decided not to allow that.

Jean-Pierre said that the end of both siege situations - in the Vincennes
supermarket, and 45 minutes away at a print works in Dammartin-en-Goele, where
the Kouachi brothers were holed up - was planned to take place simultaneously,
just before nightfall.

But in the end the Kouachi brothers decided to come out at around 5pm - at the
same time that Coulibaly was praying - and so both operations begun at the same
time anyway, regardless of the plan.

Two sticks of explosives had been placed on the door of the supermarket, ready
for the team to blow their way in.

"The terrorist immediately opened fire on us," said Stan. "He shot at us with
his Kalachnikov. Then he retreated into the shop."

Stan thought Coulibaly had gone back in to kill the hostages.

A third member of the team, "Marc", told Le Parisien that they faced a "hail of
bullets" from Coulibaly.

"In front of us we had a man, ultra precise, well trained, who knew how to work
his AK47," he said.

Coulibaly had placed shopping trolleys in the doorway, which impeded their
entry.

"Then he threw himself at us," said Stan.

He was met with fire from the police, ending up with at least 40 bullets in his
body.

"It was like a bomb had gone off in there," said Marc.

They hurried to evacuate the hostages, ushering Miss Bitton and Mr Hada out -
she looking overjoyed, and him giving a thumbs-up sign. She told medical staff
she feared her child might have suffered from hypothermia following their
ordeal, but the child was reported to be "safe and healthy", with rosy cheeks
and a normal temperature of 37.

A source said: "The mother is happy and relieved. The baby did not suffer from
hypothermia following his period in the cold store. Both mother and baby are
doing well."

And last night Mr Hada had gone skiing, on a long-planned holiday. He had been
in the supermarket to buy provisions for his trip.

The special forces found that Coulibaly had booby trapped the store, leaving a
door packed with several kilos of explosives. They also found that he had on him
a stockpile of ammunition, submachine guns and automatic weapons.

"The hostages all thanked us," said Jean-Pierre. "Some of my colleagues had
tears in their eyes."

And yesterday, after a day of rest, he was back at work - providing security for
the massive solidarity march through Paris.

"I haven't watched the video of the assault yet," he said. "I think I might wait
a bit."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 8:25 PM GMT

Paris attacks: Two worlds collide on street where terrorists lived;
As leaders of some 50 countries march in Paris to show solidarity after the
terror attacks, disaffected youths in the street where two of the gunmen lived
vow to honour the memory of their 'local heroes'

BYLINE: By David Chazan Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 532 words


On the pleasant suburban street where Saïd and Chérif Kouachi lived, the gulf
between mainstream French society and the descendants of immigrants from former
colonies is painfully apparent.

The neighbourhood is very different from more rundown Paris suburbs, where
dilapidated tower blocks are infested by drug dealers and gangs attack police as
soon as they are spotted coming close.

By contrast, the northern Paris suburb of Gennevilliers, where the Charlie Hebdo
gunmen shared a fourth-floor flat in a clean, well-maintained building, has a
prosperous, middle-class feel.

It is an ethnically mixed area, home to skilled workers, teachers and nurses.

In the Sahara cafe a few doors down from the Kouachis' building, Arab and
African youths ate lamb kebabs and drank tea.

They said they knew the brothers by sight, but not well. Many said they shared
the disgust of the hundreds of thousands who marched in condemnation of the
terror attacks. "Killing is not Islamic," a customer said.

However, on the streets outside, others were determined to make a very different
view heard.

"We're not in the march today because to us the Kouachis are our local heroes,"
a bearded man in his early 20s said.

"Today we're celebrating what they did. You're shocked, admit it, but listen to
us. My parents came from Algeria, and we haven't forgotten how Algerians were
thrown off the bridges of Paris."

He was referring to the killings of about 200 Algerians by Paris police on
October 17, 1961, at least 30 years before he was born, as the war that led to
Algeria's independence drew to a close.

The killings took place after a peaceful demonstration against a curfew imposed
on Algerian nationals living in the French capital under the orders of Maurice
Papon, then head of the Paris police, who was later convicted of crimes against
humanity for his wartime role in the deportation of Jews.

Another youth joined the conversation. "I might not agree with violence, but I
definitely understand why they did it. We belong here, we speak French, but
whatever we do, we're always going to be outsiders. There's no respect."

A third youth said: "We're not Charlie," referring to the slogan, 'Je Suis
Charlie' adopted by the French in solidarity with those killed in the attacks.
"We're Kouachi," he said. The counter-slogan "Je suis Kouachi" has appeared on
Twitter more than 2,000 times.

Marie-Thérèse, a teacher living on a neighbouring street, who declined to give
her surname, said she had been troubled by the reluctance of teenagers in her
class to observe a minute of silence the day after the Charlie Hebdo massacre.

"Several started shouting and one said he wished he had a Kalashnikov to kill
me," said the teacher, Marie-Thérèse, who declined to give her surname. "I work
in a tough school in a tough area, but the same thing happened in other
schools."

Le Figaro and other newspapers reported similar behaviour in schools in several
French cities, and cases of non-Muslim pupils trying to attack Muslim classmates
were also reported.

"Many of the kids I teach could easily be radicalised," Marie-Thérèse said.
"This doesn't bode well for the future of France. We've got to make more effort
to reconcile communities."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 7:03 PM GMT

Inside the Paris Unity march: 'we are free and we are not afraid';
The Telegraph reports from inside the Paris Unity march where hundreds of
thousands of French citizens took to the streets in show of unity and defiance
in the face of terror attacks

BYLINE: By Alastair Good

LENGTH: 213 words


Hundreds of thousands of people marched through Paris on Sunday in a massive
show of unity and defiance in the face of attacks that killed 17 people in
France's bleakest moment in half a century.

Their arms linked, more than 40 world leaders headed the sombre procession
, setting aside their differences for a demonstration that French President
François Hollande said turned the city into "the capital of the world."

The Interior Ministry called the rally "unprecedented," and said the
demonstrators were so numerous they spread beyond the official march route,
making them impossible to count.

French media estimated up to three million took part, exceeding the numbers who
took to Paris streets when the Allies liberated the city from the Nazis at the
end of World War II.

People the Telegraph spoke to told of their desire to show that they were
committed to defending the freedom of speech and wanted to show that they were
not afraid.

"We have to stand up and show them that humour is alive and has not been
destroyed," one marcher said.

The deadly attacks on a satirical newspaper, kosher market and police marked a
turning point for France that some compared to the September 11 attacks in the
US in 2001.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 1:23 PM GMT

Paris must not be divided by terrorist attacks;
As people gather at the site of the kosher supermarket siege, citizens of Paris
explain why they believe the city, and the country, should not become divided by
the terrorist acts of the past days

BYLINE: By Alastair Good Paris

LENGTH: 177 words


Outside the police cordon around the Hyper Coacher supermarket in the Jewish
quarter of Le Marais, people gathered to lay flowers, light candles and post
messages of support and solidarity.

"Most of us here are Jewish but there are also Muslims and Catholics," explained
25-year-old Gad Zerbib. His mother had shopped at the supermarket days before
the siege in which hostage taker Amedi Coulibaly and four hostages were killed
on Friday, but was not there on the day of the attack.

Among the crowd there were discussions, some heated, about the reasons behind
the attack on the supermarket and the massacre at Charlie Hebdo, two days
earlier.

Even among those who disagreed about the motivation of the attackers there was a
strong message that Paris must not allow recent events to divide the city.

Anne-Sophie Arnaud, a Parisian who travelled across the city to visit the site
explained that, for her, it did't matter why the events of recent days had
happened but only that in response the people of Paris stand together to deny
the terrorists their victory.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 12:29 PM GMT

It is lazy to say Paris terror attacks have nothing to do with Islam, Sajid
Javid says;
Sajid Javid, the Culture Secretary, says there is 'no getting away' from fact
that terrorists behind attacks in West say they are Muslim

BYLINE: By Steven Swinford Senior Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 269 words


The Muslim community has a "special burden" to tackle terrorism and it is "lazy
and wrong" to say that the attacks in Paris have nothing to do with Islam, the
Culture Secretary has said.

Sajid Javid, who is of Muslim heritage, said that there can be "no getting away
from the fact" that those behind terrorists in Paris, London and Madrid "call
themselves Muslims".

Mr Javid told Pienaar's Politics on BBC Radio 5 Live: "There is no getting away
from the fact that the people carrying out these acts - what we have seen just
horrifically this week in Paris, what has happened in London and Madrid - these
people call themselves Muslims.

"The lazy answer would be to say that this has got nothing whatsoever to do with
Islam or Muslims and that should be the end of that. That would be lazy and
wrong. You can't get away from the fact that these people are using Islam,
taking a peaceful religion and using it as a tool to carry out their
activities."

Mr Javid, who has been tipped as a future Conservative leader, has previously
acknowledged his "Muslim heritage" but practices no religion himself. His wife
is a Christian.

He told the Murnaghan programme on Sky News: "All communities can do more to try
and help and deal with terrorists, try and help track them down, but I think it
is absolutely fair to say that there is a special burden on Muslim communities,
because whether we like it or not, these terrorists call themselves Muslims.

"It is no good for people to say they are not Muslims, that is what they call
themselves. They do try to take what is a great peaceful religion and warp it
for their own means."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 12:27 PM GMT

Watch: Unity rally for Paris shootings live;
Watch live coverage as people begin gathering at Republique Square ahead of mass
march in honour of the 17 people killed in the France terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Myles Burke video source APTN

LENGTH: 285 words


Dozens of world leaders including Muslim representatives will join hundreds of
thousands of French citizens to march amid high security through Paris on Sunday
in an unpredecented tribute to victims of this week's Islamist militant attacks.

Some 2,200 security personnel were being drafted in to protect marchers from
would-be attackers with police snipers on rooftops and plain-clothes detectives
mingling with the crowd. City sewers were searched ahead of the vigil and
underground train stations around the march route are due to be closed down.

The silent march, starting at 3pm (1400 GMT), reflects shock over the worst
militant Islamist assault on a European city in nine years. For France, it
raised questions of free speech, religion and security and beyond French
frontiers it exposed the vulnerability of states to urban attacks.

Seventeen people, including journalists and policemen, lost their lives in three
days of violence that began with a shooting attack on the satirical newspaper
Charlie Hebdo on Wednesday and ended with a hostage-taking at a kosher
supermarket on Friday. The three gunmen were also killed.

"It will be an unprecedented demonstration that will be written in the history
books," Prime Minister Manuel Valls said. "It must show the power and dignity of
the French people, who will cry out their love of liberty and tolerance."

German Chancellor Angela Merkel, British Prime Minister David Cameron and Italy
Prime Minister Matteo Renzi will be among over 40 foreign leaders marching with
President Francois Hollande. Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu and Israel's
Benjamin Netanyahu - who earlier encouraged French Jews to emigrate to Israel -
are also expected to take part.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 7:00 AM GMT

Letters: When taking on terrorism, actions speak louder than words;
Civil liberty in the wake of terrorist attacks on France; A&E in crisis;
consequences of a grey squirrel cull; saving British dairy; Gwyneth Paltrow's
weedy diet

LENGTH: 2160 words


SIR - According to Nick Clegg, we will win the struggle against terrorism " not
by increasing our security but by protecting our liberty ". Doesn't the murder
of the Charlie Hebdo journalists show that liberty depends on security?

In order to protect the freedom of its citizens Britain should increase police
action against terrorist suspects. Freedom also depends on the use of force
against its enemies. If Mr Clegg had said we should beware of overreaction he
would have had a valid point, but he is wrong to treat liberty and security as
mutually exclusive concepts.

Dr David G Green                      Director, Civitas London SW1

SIR - Justice isn't dispensed from a gun - that's revenge. I'm not aware of any
god that seeks revenge and only weak humans seek such recourse.

Duncan Anderson                      East Halton, Lincolnshire

SIR - Freedom of speech does not confer a licence to indulge in bad manners and
insensitive behaviour towards our neighbours.

What about fraternité? Surely that means living together in harmony.

Gillian Snoxall                      Wallingford, Berkshire

SIR - Let the Fourth Plinth in Trafalgar Square now permanently carry a column
in the shape of a pencil bearing the legendJe suis Charlie.

Simon Sharpe                      Cobham, Surrey

SIR - The cry of "Allahu Akbar" from the terrorists as they stormed the Charlie
Hebdo building has been used by extremists as they behead Christians and Yazidis
in Iraq, bomb churches in Nigeria and separate out and kill those who can't say
a Muslim prayer in parts of Kenya.

Extremism can be found in any religion, and Muslims have been on the receiving
end too, but a report released yesterday by our charity, Open Doors, shows that
40 out of the worst 50 countries for Christian persecution show Islamic
extremism as the main driver of this oppression.

Something closer to home, like the terrible events in Paris, is particularly
shocking. But we can expect more of this unless we fight extremism as an
international community much more actively than we are doing.

Lisa Pearce                      CEO, Open Doors UK & Ireland Witney,
Oxfordshire

SIR - The sad death of 12 people during an attack at the office of Charlie Hebdo
magazine in Paris dominated newspaper, television and radio headlines last
Wednesday.

A bomb killed 37 police recruits in Yemen on the same day, but received nowhere
near the same degree of attention.

Both were attacks by terrorists, but I suppose it's who you are and where you
are that counts.

B E Norton                      Royal Wootton Bassett, Wiltshire

SIR - Up until the moment Nigel Farage spoke out last week we had endured a
succession of politicians mealy-mouthing their way around the carnage in Paris.

Of course we have a fifth column in our midst. It was the same in the Seventies
and Eighties, when the source was the IRA. The difference now is that it stems
from the headlong rush into the misguided policy of multiculturalism, fed by the
unfettered immigration embraced by the Labour government of the late Nineties.

Not for the first time Mr Farage taken the pulse of the nation and spoken for
the greater majority of it.

Edward Thomas                      Eastbourne, West Sussex

SIR - It was galling to hear Anne-Elisabeth Moutet, a French journalist, having
to correct a British television presenter on his offensive mis-use of the word
"execute", pointing out that there was no judicial endorsement of the Paris
murders.

This is one of many similar solecisms currently in vogue throughout the media.

Christopher Egerton-Thomas                      Hove, East Sussex

Tackle alcohol misuse to ease A&E pressures

SIR - The current A&E crisis is being compounded by the failure of policymakers
to tackle the impact of excessive alcohol consumption. Approximately 20 per cent
of all A&E attendances are alcohol-related. This increases to 70-80 per cent on
Friday and Saturday nights.

Almost every family in the country has been adversely affected by alcohol misuse
at some point, but successive governments have failed to enact evidence-based
policies that would save lives and ease pressure on the health, policing and
criminal justice systems.

A 50 pence minimum unit price for alcohol, regulation to protect children from
alcohol marketing, improved alcohol labelling and the establishment of alcohol
care teams with specialist consultants and nurses are simple measures - none of
which would punish responsible drinkers - that must be adopted urgently in order
to reduce pressures on A&E departments.

Kieran Moriarty Alcohol Services Lead, British Society of Gastroenterology

Professor Sir Ian Gilmore Chair, Alcohol Health Alliance Former President, Royal
College of Physicians

Dr Dominique Florin Medical Director, Medical Council on Alcohol

Dr Adrian Boyle Chair, Quality in Emergency Care Committee, College of Emergency
Medicine

Linda Harris Medical Director, Substance Misuse and Associated Health, Royal
College of General Practitioners

Dr Carsten Grimm Royal College of General Practitioners

John Ashton President, Faculty of Public Health

Prof Frank Murray President, RCP Ireland Chairman, RCPI alcohol policy group

Shirley Cramer CBE Chief Executive, Royal Society for Public Health

Jackie Ballard Chief Executive, Alcohol Concern

Diane Goslar Alcohol Health Alliance

Andrew Langford Chief Executive, British Liver Trust

Dr Mark Hudson President, British Association for the Study of the Liver

Shirley Cramer CBE Chief Executive, Royal Society for Public Health

Paul Lincoln Chief Executive Officer, UK Health Forum

Katherine Brown Director, Institute of Alcohol Studies

Chris Record Consultant Hepatologist, Newcastle University

Professor Linda Bauld Deputy Director, UK Centre for Tobacco and Alcohol Studies
Chair in Behavioural Research for Cancer Prevention, Cancer Research UK

Hazel Parsons Director, Drink Wise

Terry Martin Trustee, AlcoHELP

The Duke of York's public contribution

SIR - In response to Christopher Wilson's article ("It may be time for the
Queen's second son to leave the public stage", report, January 4) it is worth
noting that Court Circulars show that last year the hard-working Duke of York
carried out more than 300 public engagements. These often reflected his
encouragement of science and technology as well as the British charities and
other valuable causes of which he is patron or president.

The Queen and many other members of our Royal family who still selflessly carry
out official duties are already over the usual retirement age. The extensive
public work of our monarchy would be diminished if the Duke withdrew from
national life, especially if it had an impact upon the participation of his
charming daughters.

Jennifer Miller London SW15

Saving British dairy

SIR - Milk and cheese consumption per capita has declined steadily since 1985.
While the number of dairy cows has dropped dramatically over the last 10 years,
the amount of milk produced by the British herd has barely dropped. With a
shrinking demand and almost constant supply, the market price has only had one
way to go.

Processors and retailers, rather than fighting for a greater share of the pie,
should try to increase its size with innovative products like Arla's Lactofree
and Cravendale. As someone who works in the cheese industry, I also believe that
more also needs to be done to promote cheese's rich nutrition and health
benefits.

Soya milk, almond milk and the rest of these ghastly impostors are nutritionally
very disappointing. Don't even get me started on low-fat spreads.

Ian Eyres Llanyblodwel, Shropshire

Wind farm farce

SIR - Paying wind farms to switch off their turbines because the electricity
network cannot cope with the power they produce is farcical.

It would be more logical to leave them generating, pay other producers to reduce
output and actually conserve some non-renewable resources.

Peter Saunders Salisbury, Wiltshire

Fool's paradise

SIR - I was watching the horror showNecker Island Paradiseon BBC Two last week
when the spell was broken by the opening bars of Bob Dylan's Desolation Row,
playing on a nearby radio.

It is high time someone asked Dylan to put real names on the faces of the song's
"quite lame" people.

Liam Power Bangor Erris, Co Mayo

Solving the mystery of the east-west buttonhole

SIR - Having manufactured shirts and pyjamas for over 60 years I can reveal that
the last buttonhole on a shirt is placed horizontally (Letters, January 4)
because it may take greater strain than the others when the wearer plays sports,
moves across a seat, or simply sits with legs akimbo. All pyjama buttonholes are
horizontal due to the greater stress placed on them during sleep.

The remaining shirt button holes are vertical, as this looks smarter and is
easier to secure than the horizontal sort.

Derek Rose London W1

SIR - The horizontal bottom buttonhole has appeared as a result of braces
falling out of fashion. Trousers now need to be held up by friction between the
waistband and the shirt, causing a vertical pull on the shirt.

Mik Shaw Goring-by-Sea, West Sussex

SIR - Any dressmaker will explain that an east-west buttonhole stays closed, and
is useful for those with beer bellies.

Jennifer Clezy Beausale, Warwickshire

SIR - Short-sleeve shirts are worn casually outside the trousers during summer.
The east-west buttonhole provides reinforcement for the inevitable pulling
across the fabric when one slips one's hands into one's linen or chino trouser
pockets.

Jules Bowes Davies Pont Ceri, Carmarthenshire

SIR - I do up my shirt buttons from the top downwards and find a crossways
buttonhole useful for letting me know that I have finished, thus avoiding the
frustration of seeking out a buttonhole for the spare button sewn on below.

Michael Staples Seaford, East Sussex

Grey squirrel cull

SIR - If the grey squirrel cull goes ahead taxpayers will be paying for the
wholesale slaughter of wildlife.

Can nobody see anything wrong with giving landowners money and the "requirement"
to cull thousands of grey squirrels "using whatever method they prefer"? Even if
it were acceptable to wipe out a species in this way, other animals - such as
birds, bats, doormice and red squirrels - would also be put at risk from
indiscriminate poisoning and snaring.

Ginny Martin Bishops Waltham, Hampshire

SIR - In the Fifties funding was available for every grey squirrel tail taken to
the offices of the Ministry of Agriculture. I believe it was sixpence.

I spent many hours shooting grey squirrels and was immensely pleased to be able

to supplement my pocket money. Our large ginger cat, Sherry, did valiant work
bringing squirrels

back home too. She did not reap the benefits, as someone usually cut the tails
off her catch before she reached home.

The proposed funding seems far less efficient, as it is not based on exact
results.

Willum Butterfield East Haddon, Northamptonshire

Luck of a generation

SIR - Before demonising the older generation for living through " decades of
prosperity and property booms " we should remember that average mortgage
interest rates in the Eighties reached 16 per cent. They never fell below 8 per
cent, and there was no Help to Buy scheme underwritten by the taxpayer.

Fred Clark Liverpool

Facebook and fiction

SIR - Mark Zuckerberg's resolution to read a book every fortnightis commendable,
but he places too much emphasis on non-fiction.

Reading fiction enhances our ability to connect with different kinds of people
and sharpens our emotional understanding - traits that would be invaluable in
counteracting the oft-levelled criticism that the rise of social media has led
to an increasingly self-obsessed society.

Andrew Copeman London SW18

Love is in the air

SIR - Sorry chaps, you're all wrong: the sexiest voice (Letters, January 4)
belonged to the lady who used to read the Geneva Volmet weather reports. The
wonder of the Alps at 36,000 ft and that voice...never forgotten.

Capt John Grogan Congleton, Cheshire

SIR - I was posted to RAF Melksham as an education officer in 1958. One of the
young ladies who did the station tannoy announcements had the most beautiful and
alluring voice.

I managed to meet her at the weekly Scottish country dancing event and married
her soon thereafter.

John Ross Tenby, Pembrokeshire

SIR - One day in the early Seventies I gave up my lunch break when on turnround
at Sumburgh to walk to the control tower in search of the Shetland approach
controller with the honey-soaked voice.

Seated at her console was a lady about my mother's age, knitting, feet on the
desk, wearing brown corduroy trousers. I made an excuse and left.

Capt Martyn Johnson Driffield, East Yorkshire

Weedy diet

SIR - If Gwyneth Paltrow wishes to detox on garden weeds she would be very
welcome on my allotment at any time.

Fred Wilson Newcastle upon Tyne

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                      January 11, 2015 Sunday 3:14 PM GMT

Live: Paris unity march remembers Charlie Hebdo and supermarket siege victims;
An "unprecedented" two million people joined world leaders including David
Cameron in a huge unity rally on the streets of Paris today after 17 deaths in a
series of terror attacks

BYLINE: By walesonline

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 13 words


Live: Paris unity march remembers Charlie Hebdo and supermarket siege victims

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                            January 11, 2015 Sunday

World leaders join France unity march in response to terror attack

LENGTH: 775  words


Dozens of world leaders stood arm in arm as they led a defiant march through
Paris in the wake of the terror attacks that shocked the French capital.

Families of victims were among at least a million people who descended on the
city from all over the world to show their solidarity with Parisians mourning
the deaths of the 17 people killed in this week's atrocities.

Prime Minister David Cameron, France's president Francois Hollande and other
European leaders broke into spontaneous applause amid cheers, chants of
"Charlie, Charlie" and choruses of the French national anthem La Marseillaise as
the march got under way from the Place de la Republique.

Ahead of the rally, Mr Hollande declared: "Today, Paris is the capital of the
world."

As the crowds swelled in a surge of unity, an unprecedented security operation
saw more than 5,000 police and soldiers deployed to the streets as France
remained on high alert.

Downing Street said the Union flag at Number 10 was lowered to half-mast at the
start of the rally "as a mark of solidarity and respect".

he vast crowds set off along two routes towards Place de la Nation, walking
boldly through streets that on Wednesday were filled with fear after two
brothers gunned down 12 people at the nearby offices of the satirical magazine
Charlie Hebdo.

As the people gathered, waves of applause rippled out from Place de la
Republique along all the roads leading to it, which were quickly gridlocked.

There were few large placards but the vast majority of the very mixed crowd
displayed the "Je Suis Charlie" slogan in a variety of ways, from T-shirts and
stickers to face paints and hair bands.

Some held messages of solidarity in Arabic while others pointed to other aspects
of the week's terror - publicly declaring their pride in the Jewish faith via
posters.

The Place de la Republique has seen countless huge demonstrations in its time,
but even veterans such as Momo said he had never seen such a volume of people
crowding past his nearby hat shop.

While he applauded the march as an essential riposte to the terrorists, he was
pessimistic about its power to effect change.

"The killings will not stop," he said - and was unable to suggest any other
action he truly believed might help.

Among those showing more hope for change was Agnes Demongeot, who had made a
placard featuring what she hoped would be three values cherished by a new
generation alongside the republican trio of freedom, equality and brotherhood:
tolerance, intelligence and impertinence.

She reflected the views of many joining the march in explaining that while
Charlie Hebdo played a key part in her own political education, she was proud
that so many of those around her were not fans of the magazine, but passionate
nonetheless about the need to defend freedom of speech.

One group of intrepid marchers scaled the huge statue in the middle of the
square and draped it with flags from across the world before leading the masses
in chants of "Charlie, Charlie!"

People on the march carried banners, placards and posters bearing all sorts of
slogans of defiance.

Others carried drawings and pictures in honour of the slain cartoonists.

A huge pencil bearing the words "not afraid" was carried through the crowd,
while others raised posters to create a giant image apparently depicting the
eyes and glasses of the magazine's murdered editor, Stephanie Charbonnier.

Another banner bore the lyrics of John Lennon's famous song Imagine, dreaming of
a world of peace.

And a young boy held up a poster that read: "When I grow up, I'll be a
journalist. I'm not afraid."

Similar gatherings have been held in cities throughout France, with more than
600,000 estimated to be taking place in rallies outside the capital.

Rallies have also taken place across Europe, including London and Berlin.

In Trafalgar Square, large crowds were joined by French Ambassador Sylvie
Bermann, who told Sky News today's events were "very important".

She said: "The message is fight against terrorism, to defend our voices, to
defend our freedoms of opinion and expression.

"Everybody wanted to participate and everybody is concerned."

As they did after the initial attacks on Wednesday, people held pens and pencils
aloft in solidarity with the murdered journalists, and a "wreath" of pens was
laid on the floor and filled with flowers, placards and a tricolore flag.

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg was among the crowds, and told Sky News there
was a "striking dignity" about people coming together spontaneously to "show
their quiet disgust at what happened".

Tributes have also been left outside the French Embassy in Knightsbridge, while
a vigil is planned in Cardiff Bay.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Alliance News

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 1:06 PM GMT

10,000 Troops To Be Deployed In France Following Terrorist Attacks

LENGTH: 469 words


Paris (Alliance News) - Some 10,000 military troops will be deployed to
"sensitive points" across France following a three-day killing spree last week
that left 17 dead in Paris and shocked the nation, Defence Minister Jean-Yves Le
Drian said.

"The president asked the armed forces to participate in securing sensitive
points in the country," Le Drian said after a cabinet-level national security
meeting at the Elysee Palace, adding that it was the largest military deployment
to ever take place on French territory.

Interior Minister Bernar Cazeneuve told French media that 4,700 police forces
would be deployed to 717 Jewish schools and places of worship, after one of the
attacks targeted a kosher supermarket.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu visited the supermarket, Hyper Cacher,
to pay tribute to the four victims of the attack: Joav Hattab, 21, Johan Cohen,
22, Philippe Braham, 45, and François-Michel Saada, 60.

Netanyahu was in Paris to take part in massive demonstrations Sunday that drew
nearly 4 million people across France to commemorate the victims and display
solidarity against religious extremism.

Three men were killed by police Friday in two separate raids that ended days of
terror in France. One operation targeted two brothers believed to be responsible
for a shooting at Charlie Hebdo satirical magazine that killed 12 people.

In the other raid, police stormed Jewish market Hyper Cacher, which was under
siege by a man believed to have earlier shot dead a policewoman.

A woman named Sophie, who said she was one of those taken hostage in the store
on Friday, told broadcaster Europe 1 that gunman Amedy Coulibaly shot one of the
victims in the back when he tried to leave, and killed another after he took one
of Coulibaly's guns.

Coulibaly's alleged accomplice, 26-year-old Hayat Boumeddiene, was not in France
when the attacks occurred, Turkish Foreign Minister Mevluet Cavusoglu told the
Anadolu news agency Monday.

Cavusoglu said she flew from Madrid to Istanbul on January 2, and said phone
data indicated that she left for Syria one day after the attack on Charlie
Hebdo.

Prime Minister Manuel Valls told French broadcaster BFMTV that there would
likely be a parliamentary inquiry into how the attacks occurred.

In a televised interview, Valls said that investigators are continuing to
untangle how the attacks were planned and whether they were supported by a
broader network.

Advocating for the isolation of radical Islamists in prison, Valls also said it
was important to avoid legislative overeach. "Beware of all exceptional
procedures, even after violence that is exceptional in its barbarism and
requires an exceptional response," he said.

US Secretary of State John Kerry said Monday he would travel to Paris on
Thursday for talks on combatting violent extremists.

Copyright dpa

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                      Copyright 2015 Alliance News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 12, 2015 Monday

Saudi interior ministry elaborates on north border terrorist attack

LENGTH: 162 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

[Unattributed report: "Interior Ministry spokesman gives more information on
Suef incident"]

Pursuant to the statement issued on Friday [9 January] corresponding to
18/3/1436 H. Regarding the results of verifying the identities of the culprits
who carried out the brutal terrorist crime when a north border patrol confronted
them as they were attempting to infiltrate into the Kingdom across the Northern
Borders on Monday 14/3/1436 H., The spokesman of the Interior Ministry said
today that investigations revealed that the fourth and last murdered member of
the deviant terror group who was killed due to the explosion of a belt he was
wearing during the fire exchange with security men was called Salim Muhammad
Fihaid al-Shammari, a Saudi national.

His first of kin were notified of this information, the spokesman added.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 2002 gmt 11 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 12, 2015 Monday

Residents flee northern Nigerian town for fear of further terror attacks

LENGTH: 465 words


Text of report by private Nigerian newspaper The Guardian website on 9 January

[Report by Njadvara Musa: "Residents Flee Baga for Fear of Further Attacks"]

Many residents of Monguno and other neighbouring communities of Baga town in
Borno State are now fleeing to Maiduguri, the state capital in droves due to
fear of being attacked again by Boko Haram insurgents.

The fishing community on shores of Lake Chad was sacked last Saturday by
insurgents after fierce battle with soldiers of the Multinational Joint Task
Force (MJTF) at a military base of Mile 4.

Some of the fleeing residents told The Guardian Tuesday in Maiduguri that they
decided to flee the area because they were no longer safe and protected, as Baga
and the military base of MJTF were captured and are now being controlled by
insurgents.

Ibrahim Isa, one of the fleeing residents said: "Almost all the towns in
northern Borno have been sacked by the Boko Haram. The information we got from
people that escaped from Baga is that they are going to come for us again for
the third or fourth time." Another fleeing resident, Mala Mohammed, said he
decided to run away with members of his family because the insurgents may soon
come for them.

"It is sad that government cannot protect us from these rampaging insurgents who
take delight in taking innocent lives," he said.

Many of the fleeing residents arriving Baga Motor Park in rickety vehicles with
their belongings, including domestic animalss, were also sighted by noon
yesterday.

The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) said it has so far registered 1,
636 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) from Baga, following insurgents'
multiple attacks in the area.

The North East Information Officer of NEMA, Ibrahim Abdulkadir, who disclosed
this to newsmen in Maiduguri said that the registration exercise was going on as
the displaced people were still trooping in to the camp set up by the Borno
State government According to him, NEMA, in conjunction with the State Emergency
Management Agency (SEMA) and other stakeholders have provided the displaced
people beddings and other items.

"Those that were sick have been given medical attention while all hands are on
deck as all the stakeholders in emergency management are doing what they can to
attend to the need of the people.""

The information officer also disclosed that majority of the people that fled
Baga attack went to Chad, adding that the agency was planning how to evacuate
them back to the country. "Recently, NEMA team was dispatched to Chad, Cameroon
and Niger to ascertain the number of Nigerians displaced in these countries.
Those who are willing to come back will be evacuated back to Nigeria with the
assistance of the host countries," Abdulkadir said.

Source: The Guardian website, Lagos, in English 9 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 12, 2015 Monday

SAfrican paper calls for united voice against terror after attacks in Nigeria

LENGTH: 303 words


Text of report by South African newspaper Pretoria News on 12 January

[Editorial: "A United Voice Against Terror"]

Most of the victims were children, women and elderly people who, says Amnesty
International, could not run fast enough when Boko Haram insurgents drove into
Baga, a village in northern Nigeria.

They gunned down residents with rocket-propelled grenades and assault rifles in
what is believed to be one of the worst massacres on record.

Reports say bodies still lie strewn everywhere, with bloodshed beyond imagining.

Although it is understood that journalists cannot freely enter the area because
it has been taken over by the militants, voices are now being raised about the
rather different attention being paid to the Nigerian atrocity as opposed to
that over the terrorism in Paris last week.

The story of the horror in Baga was not a major breaking international news
event at the weekend.

Perhaps because of its remoteness and its being a no-go zone, it was not the
centre of live reports.

There were no television cameramen, and no photographs paying witness on the
global news agency wires.

And there were no hashtags on social media.

Today, we add our voice to Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International and others
in expressing concern that the same moral perspective should be put on the Baga
massacre as has been seen on the deaths in France.

Yesterday's rallies, especially the one in Paris, showed the resolve of millions
to rise up for democracy and stand united against terror.

In Nigeria it appears that the massacre was part of a campaign to terrorize
people into not voting.

We believe terrorism in the developing world is no less important than that in a
Western capital. We must unite in reporting on it, and in condemning it,
wherever it happens.

Source: Pretoria News, Pretoria, in English 12 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 12, 2015 Monday

No proof Serbian citizen held in Kosovo was planning terrorist attack - daily

LENGTH: 867 words


Excerpt from report by Kosovo Albanian privately-owned newspaper Koha Ditore on
7 January

[Report by Vehbi Kajtazi: "'Terrorist' Had Entered Kosovo Three Times With
Explosive"]

Pristina, 6 January - Slobodan Gavric's actions speak more about a trader rather
than a terrorist that was planning to blow up the Grand Hotel in the centre of
Pristina.

Gavric had travelled a long way by his car filled with explosives. He had even
entered and exited Kosovo three times with the same amount of explosives. The
Serbian citizen, arrested on 25 December [2014], was staying at the Grand Hotel,
where he checked in with his name and surname, while he left his car with
Belgrade registration plates at this hotel's parking lot. Gavric also had a
letter with him, where Pristina's streets were described, with special emphasis
on the street at "Tre sheshirat [Three hats]" near the Cathedral. The
explanation he gave was that he was supposed to hand over the explosive to
someone there and he was waiting for his phone call.

The intelligence and arrest operation was led by the Kosovo Intelligence Agency
[AKI]. The newspaper found out that, in addition to Bashkim Smakaj [head of the
AKI], only two other persons knew about this. But these officials, former
officials of the Kosovo Police, led the "operation" from the Grand Hotel in
Pristina. The Agency informed the police about the suspect's movements and he
was arrested in a populated area.

In the meantime, the AKI is not cooperating with the Kosovo Special Prosecutor's
Office [PSRK]. The Protractor's Office said that they had no contacts with
officials of this agency.

Sources from the process told Koha Ditore on condition of anonymity that the
suspect had moved with his car filled with explosives three times. During
questioning, the suspect said that he was going to hand over the explosive near
the Cathedral in Pristina. He was waiting for a phone call to do this.

"Up until now there is no proof or strong evidence suggesting a terrorist
attack," source within the investigations said.

Slobodan Gavric was arrested last month. The Kosovar authorities qualified his
act as an attempted terrorist attack because of, as they said, his discovery.
Gavric, a 46-year old Serbian citizen, was stopped by the police at the Arberia
neighbourhood in Pristina.

Political representatives said that with 13 kilograms of explosives, he was
going to commit the terrorist attack of blowing up the Grand Hotel.

Authorities said on condition of anonymity that the information about the
suspect came from a Bosnian from Novi Pazar. A few years ago, a Bosnian had
informed the police several times about the placement of explosives in various
localities of Kosovo. The information always appeared to be accurate. He was
never arrested. It is believed that he was an associate of the Serbian military
service.

Drita Hajdari, prosecutor of the case, decided to seal the case, and whatever
information that would leak from the investigations would be considered a
criminal act. The Prosecutor's Office said that it was working to enlighten the
case, adding that EULEX [EU rule-of-law mission] did not get involved in
investigations up until now.

"As you are also aware, this case is at the preliminary investigation phase at
the PSRK. Given that in the concrete case we are dealing with the suspicion of
planning a terrorist attack, the prosecutor of the case assessed that every file
of the case can harm the investigations, so . . . she has made a decision to ban
access to all persons to files and evidences collected up until now," the
Prosecutor's Office said.

The Prosecutor's Office said that they had close cooperation with the Kosovo
Police, with which they were conducting the investigations, but not with the
AKI, which had informed the police about the suspect.

"The investigations are being carried out by a domestic prosecutor of the PSRK,
in close cooperation with the Kosovo Police. As for cooperation with the AKI, we
inform you that since 25 December 2014, the day when the case happened, and
until now, the prosecutor of the case was not contacted by AKI officials,
although, as is known, the AKI is obliged by the law to offer information to the
Prosecutor's Office in every case that threatens the security of the Republic of
Kosovo," the Special Prosecutor's Office explained through the Office for the
Media.

The Prosecutor's Office said that EULEX was not involved in this case at all.

"From the beginning and until the end, the case will be led by a domestic
prosecutor of the PSRK. Should the need for cooperation with Serbian authorities
arise, this cooperation will be realized through our international partners,"
the Prosecutor's Office added.

The suspect is in detention and is suspected of two criminal acts: planning
terrorist attacks or criminal acts against the constitutional order and security
of the Republic of Kosovo and unauthorized import, supply, transport,
production, exchange or sale weapons or explosive devices.

Like previous times, this time also AKI Chief Bashkim Smakaj refused to answer
to Koha Ditore's questions. [passage omitted; background information on Gavric's
arrest]

Source: Koha Ditore, Pristina, in Albanian 7 Jan 15 pp 1,3

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 12, 2015 Monday

Iran condemns terrorist attack on Shi'is mosque in Pakistan

LENGTH: 104 words


Iran's Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham has strongly condemned a
recent terrorist attack on a mosque in the Pakistani city of Rawalpindi that
killed at least seven people, the Iranian Students News Agency (ISNA) reported
on 12 January.

Afkham "strongly condemned" the blast, which occurred on 9 January, and
stressed: "Iran deemed any acts of terrorism targeting innocent people as
contrary to the teachings of Islam and human values."

"It is clear that such actions are in line with the interests of the enemies of
Pakistan and the Muslim nations," she added.

Source: ISNA website, Tehran, in Persian 1251 gmt 12 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 8:39 AM GMT

Fox News pundit apologises for calling Birmingham 'Muslim-only city';
Steve Emerson, a Fox News commentator, was speaking about the terror attacks in
France when he described Birmingham as as a "Muslim-only city"

BYLINE: By Brett Gibbons

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 227 words


Fox News commentator suggests Birmingham, UK is a place non-Muslims 'don't go'

An American TV 'expert' has been forced to apologise for remarks where he
labelled Birmingham as a "Muslim-only" city on a primetime US network show
watched by millions of viewers.

Steve Emerson, a Fox News commentator, was speaking about the terror attacks in
France when he described Birmingham as as a "Muslim-only city" where non-Muslims
"don't go in".

But he was forced to withdraw the remarks and offered a make a donation to the
city's children's hospital after being bombarded with protests over the claims.

His apology read: "I have clearly made a terrible error for which I am deeply
sorry. My comments about Birmingham were totally in error.

"And I am issuing an apology and correction on my website immediately for having
made this comment about the beautiful city of Birmingham.

"I do not intend to justify or mitigate my mistake by stating that I had relied
on other sources because I should have been much more careful. There was no
excuse for making this mistake and I owe an apology to every resident of
Birmingham.

"I am not going to make any excuses. I made an inexcusable error. And I am
obligated to openly acknowledge that mistake.

Steve

"PS. I intend to make a donation to Birmingham Children's Hospital."

Mr Emerson also took to Twitter to apologise.

Steve Emerson apology

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 11:30 AM GMT

Paris terror attacks: Hunt on for mystery accomplice who helped supermarket
killer

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 499 words


THE ISLAMIC gunman who killed four shoppers in Paris "undoubtedly" had an
accomplice.

A hunt has been launched for the person who helped Amedy Coulibaly, 32, enter a
kosher supermarket last week.

Authorities are already hunting for his partner, 26-year-old Hayat Boumeddiene -
dubbed the world's most wanted woman.

Turkey's foreign minister has confirmed the terror suspect crossed into Syria on
January 9 via Turkey and Madrid.

Boumeddine, who has been pictured training with a crossbow, is now thought to
have joined with Islamic State.

Her father has reportedly been left broken over her actions.

Mohamed Boumeddiene, a delivery driver, said he was "shocked" over his
daughter's actions.

He was heard crying in his flat and saying he did not know if his daughter was
dead or alive.

A friend said: "He went to the mosque to pray and then took himself to the
police station after he saw her picture on the television."

Fresh details have emerged from the Paris terror attacks with police revealing
Coulibaly was killed by at least 40 bullets.

France remains on high alert with nearly 5,000 police tasked with protecting
Jewish schools while security forces will also guard other "sensitive" sites.

Meanwhile David Cameron has met with intelligence and security chiefs over how
to protect Britain from terror.

The PM tweeted: "I've had a full briefing from security chiefs.

"We discussed ensuring the UK is properly protected from the terrorist threat."

A spokesman for the PM added: "The Prime Minister held a security meeting in
Downing St this morning to review the Paris attacks and the risks to the UK of a
similar attack.

"Following an intelligence update, they discussed the UK's preparedness for
similar incidents. The relevant police and agencies regularly carry out
exercises to test their response to a terror attack, including scenarios similar
to the incidents in Paris.

"The Prime Minister also asked the police and military to continue to work
closely together to ensure that the police can call on appropriate military
assistance when required across the country.

"They also discussed the risk posed by firearms, agreeing that our existing
tough firearms laws are a very important part of the protections we have and
that we should step up our efforts with other countries to crackdown on the
illegal smuggling of weapons across borders."

brightcove.createExperiences; Related articles Most wanted woman in France:
Kosher supermarket 'widow' still on the run Al Qaida threaten more attacks on
France as terror death toll hits 17 Hackers declare war on terrorists over
Charlie Hebdo massacre French terror wife with links to Charlie Hebdo killers is
living in the UK on BENEFITS Brother of Muslim policeman killed by Charlie Hebdo
gunmen calls murderers 'madmen' Newspaper firebombed days after printing
Muhammad cartoons in support of Charlie Hebdo Charlie Hebdo attacks: More than
two million join world leaders at 'Unity' march in Paris

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 9:00 AM GMT

Paris terror attack: Hostages huddle in freezer as terrorist guns down innocent
victims;
A YOUNG woman cradles a baby as she and the petrified hostages hide during the
Paris kosher supermarket siege

BYLINE: By Russell Myers

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 181 words


Huddled on a pile of boxes, a young woman cradles a baby in her arms as she and
other petrified hostages in the Paris kosher supermarket siege hide out in a
freezer room.

Just yards away, Amedy Coulibaly was gunning down other innocent shoppers in a
merciless killing spree that claimed four lives.

These photographs were taken by one of the 15 people ushered to safety by shop
worker Lassana Bathily, 24, who turned off the freezer before closing them in
and running for help.

In anther shot, a woman leans over boxes, texting others about her plight.

Coulibaly stormed the store in Porte de Vincennes, eastern Paris, on Friday, a
day after shooting a policewoman.

One brave hostage was killed as he tried to overpower Coulibaly

The man snatched one of the gunman's arsenal of rifles, but it jammed when he
tried to shoot.

Coulibably then executed the unnamed victim in cold blood as the other hostages
looked on in horror.

Police say Coulibaly and the Kouachi brothers were in the same terror cell.

Paris Attacks - Audio conversation between Amedy Coulibaly and hostages at the
Hypercacher siege

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 6:39 AM GMT

Paris terror attacks: Live updates as hunt continues for fugitive wife of
terrorist;
Police are still hunting for terrorist Hayat Boumeddiene who plotted last week's
attack in Paris with husband Amedy Coulibaly

BYLINE: By Anthony Bond

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 3 words


Paris terror attacks

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 12, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Random shooting of jogger was killer's first act of terror;
Supermarket gunman may have walked out of flat and into park to test weapons and
aim France terror attacks

BYLINE: Martin Evans; David Chazan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1002 words


AS Paris began to come to terms with the horror of last week's terrorist
attacks, another shooting was linked to Amedy Coulibaly, the gunman who killed a
policewoman and then four people in a Jewish grocery last week.

French investigators said they believed the terrorist's first act was to open
fire on a jogger in a park in the quiet southwestern suburb of
Fontenay-aux-Roses.

Coulibaly began his terror spree just hours after the brothers Saïd and Chérif
Kouachi attacked the offices of Charlie Hebdo, the satirical magazine.

It is now thought that Coulibaly carried out his first attack simply by walking
to a park opposite the flat he shared with his wife Hayat Boumedienne and
shooting a passing jogger.

The injured man managed to stagger to a nearby house, where a woman called the
emergency services.

Last night he remained in a coma in hospital, where his injuries were described
as life threatening.

The random nature of the attack suggested Coulibaly may have simply been testing
his weapons and aim before carrying out further attacks. The following morning
he shot dead a policewoman in nearby Montrouge and on Friday, as the Kouachis
made their final stand at a print works north-east of Paris, he stormed into a
Kosher supermarket killing four customers.

Despite the fact that Wednesday's shooting took place close to his home, the
police did not initially connect the incident and the terrorist attacks.

It was only when ballistics experts carried out tests on the bullet casings,
that it was confirmed the same Russian-made Tokarev semi-automatic pistol had
been used in all the incidents.

François Molins, the chief prosecutor of Paris, confirmed that Coulibaly was now
being blamed for the shooting of the jogger.

Investigators are also examining a car bomb that exploded in Thursday night in
Villejuif, another suburb to the south of Paris after Coulibaly claimed
responsibility for that attack in a video.

Police have also found a stash of weapons they believe were part of the arsenal
used by Coulibaly.

Late on Saturday they raided an apartment in the southern Paris suburb of
Gentilly where they found an identity card in his name, along with weapons,
armour and a flag similar to those used by Islamic militant groups.

Meanwhile, thousands of people gathered in the north-east of Paris yesterday for
the funeral of the policeman shot dead outside the offices of Charlie Hebdo.

Ahmed Merabet, 42, was the first officer on the scene of Wednesday's attack,
carried out by the Kouachi brothers, who shot Mr Merabet then murdered at point
blank range as he lay on the pavement.

"He was on foot, and came nose-tonose with the terrorists," said Rocco Contento,
a police union representative for Paris's 11th arrondissement, where Mr Merabet
was based.

"He pulled out his weapon. It was his job, it was his duty."

He described Mr Merabet as a quiet, conscientious officer who was always smiling
and was widely liked.

Mourners in the suburb of Livry-Gargan stood in front of the town hall and held
up signs saying "I am Ahmed".

Mr Merabet, one of five children of Algerian immigrant parents, grew up in the
suburb and ran a cleaning company before joining the police eight years ago.

"Through his determination, he had just got his judicial police officer
(detective) diploma, and was shortly due to leave fieldwork," said his brother
Malek on the eve of the funeral.

Malek Merabet also called for calm, and decried Islamaphobia and anti-Semitism,
saying: "My brother was a Muslim and he was killed by people pretending to be
Muslims. They are terrorists - that's it."

He added: "I speak now to all the racists, Islamaphobes and anti-Semites who
confuse extremists and Muslims. Madness has neither colour nor religion." At the
time of his murder, Mr Merabet was making plans to move in with his partner,
Morgane Ahmad.

She was in a restaurant at the time of the shooting, and heard that a policeman
could be injured.

Worried, she rang Mr Merabet's phone, but then she saw the footage of him being
murdered on television.

Yesterday the man who took the footage, filming on his mobile phone from across
the road from the Charlie Hebdo offices, said he deeply regretted posting it
online.

Jordi Mir, an engineer, said he posted the video out of fear and a "stupid
reflex" fostered by years on social media.

Mr Mir said he left the video on Facebook for just 15 minutes before thinking
the better of it, But the footage had already been shared across the site and
less than an hour after Mr Mir removed it he was startled to find it playing on
television.

He apologised for causing distress to Mr Merabet's family. "On Facebook, there's
no confidentiality," he said. "It's a lesson for me."

THE 17 VICTIMS OF PARIS ATROCITIES

Mourners at yesterday's funeral of Ahmed Merabet, the policeman shot in the
street, carried posters declaring Je Suis Ahmed, echoing the Je Suis Charlie
campaign

CHARLIE HEBDO EDITORIAL

Bernard Verlhac, also known as Tignous, started work at Charlie Hebdo in 1980

Jean Cabut, aka Cabu, drew a provocative response to the Danish cartoon affair

Georges Wolinski, born in Tunis to Jewish parents. Editor for nine years from
1961

Philippe Honoré. Cartoon of al-Baghdadi, Isil chief, was tweeted minutes before
raid

CARETAKER

Frederic Boisseau, father of two children aged 12 and 10. The first to be shot

VISITOR

Michel Renaud, a travel writer from Clermont Ferrand who was visiting office

OTHER POLICE OFFICERS

Clarissa Jean-Philippe, directing traffic in south Paris when she was shot dead

Franck Brinsolaro, part of the Protection Service who had guarded Charb for
years

KOSHER SUPERMARKET VICTIMS

Yohan Cohen, shot after he tried to take one of the gunman's weapons

Philippe Braham, computer engineer. Brother is rabbi of a Paris synagogue

Yoav Hattab, one of seven brothers, who had just returned to Paris from Israel

Francois-Michel Saada, pension fund manager. Born in Tunis, a father of two

'My brother was a Muslim killed by people pretending to be Muslims. They are
terrorists - that's it'

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 12, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UK terror attack unlikely, claims Met chief

BYLINE: Steven Swinford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 224 words


A TERRORIST attack in Britain is unlikely and the public should remain calm in
the wake of the Paris massacre, the country's most senior police officer said
yesterday.

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, said an attack was
possible, but that the security services had largely been successful in
thwarting plots. Sir Bernard told Sky News: "We do our best together with the
security services to make sure the terrorists don't succeed and that we keep
people safe. To date, that's broadly what we've been able to achieve."

His remarks followed a report in The Sunday Times that quoted senior security
sources saying that Britain was poised to raise the terrorist threat level to
"critical" - the highest category, which means that an attack is expected
imminently.

Meanwhile, Lord West, the former security minister, has said the security
services need more funding to stop Parisstyle attacks because more than 30 spies
are required to monitor the movements of a single terror suspect for 24 hours.

He called for suspects to be subjected to more intensive monitoring, and
criticised Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister, for blocking the
Communications Data Bill, nicknamed the "snooper's charter" by opponents. "I
think that needs to go through, and I was very irked, I have to say, that it was
removed," Lord West said.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 12, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Supermarket killer's video of homage to Isil before his attack;
France terror attack

BYLINE: Henry Samuel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 544 words


AMEDY COULIBALY, the terrorist who killed a policewoman in Paris and another
four people in a kosher supermarket in Vincennes, had pre-recorded a video
seeking to justify his murders and claiming allegiance to Isil.

Entitled "Soldier of the Caliphate", the film shows how Coulibaly, referred to
as Aboü Bassir AbdAllah al-Ifriqip, prepared for his terrorist strike by doing
push-ups in what looks like a housing estate courtyard, and filming a cache of
weapons.

Speaking directly to camera, he swears allegiance to "Caliph Ibrahim", also
known as Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the selfproclaimed leader of Islamic State of
Iraq and the Levant (Isil), with the Isil black flag in the background. He
speaks in French and stuttering Arabic, reading from a text.

At one stage, appearing in a camou-flage bullet-proof vest, the 32-year-old
speaks in the past tense, suggesting the recording took place after he had shot
a policewoman on Thursday and before his supermarket attack the following day.

Asked whether he has any link to the Charlie Hebdo killers, Saïd and Chérif
Kouachi, he says calmly: "The brothers of our team were split into two groups -
I went out a bit against the police.

"If we did things a bit together and a bit separately it was to have more
impact."

Apparently speaking about one of the Kouachi brothers, he says: "I helped him in
his project by giving him a few thousand euros so he could finish off what he
had bought.

"We manage to synchronise to go out at the same time, so we don't cause each
other any problems as we are sought of over the same affair."

A text on the screen claims Coulibaly was behind the deaths of a policewoman and
"five Jews", also claiming he had planted explosives on a car in Paris.

Slickly edited, it begins with a French radio report recounting the end of the
supermarket siege in which Coulibaly is gunned down by police - presumably to
drive home the message he is a martyr. Asked why the terrorist cell had chosen
to attack Charlie Hebdo and the Jewish supermarket, Coulibaly - now posing in a
black leather jacket, with an automatic rifle by his side - claims his murderous
acts were "entirely justified". "If you attack the Caliphate and the Islamic
State, you will be attacked," he says.

Apparently speaking directly to France, his native country, he says: "You and
your coalition - you almost above all - bombarded regularly over there,
civilians and fighters."

Then, wearing a long white Islamic robe, he calls on "Muslim brothers in France"
to take up arms.

"What are you doing," he asks repeatedly. He claims to have "scoured the
mosques, in France, many in Paris" and that they are "full of vigour, sporty
young men". "Why with all these thousands, millions of young people, there
aren't others to defend their own?" he asks.

Coulibaly, a Frenchman of Senegalese descent, appeared to have extensive
military training - but it is not clear whether this was carried out abroad. A
French special forces policeman involved in the final shoot-out said that he was
"ultraprecise, well-trained, who knew how to work his AK47".

One of 10 children and the only boy, Coulibaly became a delinquent at 17. In
2002, he carried out an armed bank robbery in Orléans, in the Loiret, and from
that point was in and out of prison.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Amedy Coulibaly, in one part of the film, sits talking directly to
camera and calls on 'Muslim brothers in France' to take up arms

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 12, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

After a minute of silence, the chants started 'We're not afraid,' they roared;
France terror attacks Millions march across France in a show of defiance and
solidarity

BYLINE: Henry Samuel; David Chazan; Rory Mulholland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 967 words


IT WAS a day of defiance, as up to two million Parisians sang their opposition
to the bloodshed on their streets and Europe's leaders agreed a security deal
that aims to stop such an atrocity from happening again.

They came to pay their respects to the dead, united behind a peloton of 50 heads
of state, in a vast human tide that reaffirmed the universal values of the
French Republic: liberty, equality and fraternity. After a minute of silence
came the roar of chants, with one in particular - "We are not afraid!" - shouted
over and over.

"Je suis Charlie" was everywhere, on homemade placards, on armbands, on
T-shirts. And there were flags too: huge French tricolores, the colours of the
Republic, waved from the giant statue of Marianne, the incarnation of French
liberty and reason.

Wounded in its heart by the three home-grown Islamic terrorists who killed 17
journalists, cartoonists, shoppers and police officers over three days, Paris
answered François Hollande's call to "rise up" in a show of solidarity.

In a city grown used to mass demonstrations, the "unity march" was the one to
dwarf them all, the biggest gathering in France's history even overshadowing the
celebration of Paris's liberation from the Nazis in 1944. More than 1.7million
people are also thought to have marched in other French cities.

A vast security operation to guard the marchers appeared to pass off smoothly,
with 2,200 police officers on the route and snipers across the city's rooftops.
In the coming days, the city's Jews will be guarded especially closely, with Mr
Hollande promising a "military guard" if necessary.

While the mood on the street was buoyant, leaders from across Europe and North
America acknowledged that changes will have to be made to how the Continent
polices its borders and tracks its enemies. American intelligence officials,
listening in to the phone calls of Islamic State leaders, overhead that Paris
was just the first of what may be other targets. "We are here to demonstrate
that we all stand for the values of democracy, freedom, freedom of expression
and tolerance," said David Cameron, who will discuss Britain's response to the
attacks with security and intelligence chiefs today.

The Prime Minister said the "poison" of fanatical extremism "will be with us for
many more years to come".

"We in Britain face a very similar threat - a threat of fanatical extremism -
and we have to confront that in every way we can. That means maintaining strong
security, investing in our security services. It means being very vigilant."

European, Canadian and US interior and justice ministers pledged to "step up the
detection and screening of travel movements of European nationals" leaving or
entering the EU, to adjust Europe's internal Schengen freedom-of-movement rules
to widen information sharing and to subject suspicious travellers to greater
checks.

They added that it was "essential" that major internet providers cooperate with
governments in closely monitoring and, if necessary, removing online content
"that aims to incite hatred and terror". The measures will be discussed further
at an EU summit on Feb 12.

"There was firm support for new action to share intelligence, track the movement
of terrorists and defeat their ideology," said Theresa May, the Home secretary.
"It is important that we now deliver on these talks so we can keep all our
citizens safe from the very serious threat we all face."

Boris Johnson issued his own blunt take: "I am not interested in this civil
liberties stuff. If they are a threat, I want their email and calls listened
to."

The unprecedented size of the rally was matched by its vision of political
unity. At the heart of the cortÈge, standing arm in arm stood Angela Merkel and
Mr Hollande, who had earlier welcomed the German Chancellor with an emotional
hug.

"Europe will win the fight against terrorism," said Metteo Renzi, the Italian
prime minister. "Today, we are all French." Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli
prime minister, marched in step with Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president,
and dozens of leaders at the helm of the march, with the pair waving to the
crowds as they walked slowly away from the square.

In all, almost 50 world leaders came to pay their respects including Spain's
Mariano Rajoy, several African leaders, Ahmed Davutoglu, Turkey's prime
minister, and king Abdullah II of Jordan and his wife, Queen Rania.

Thousands took to the streets as far afield as Sydney, Vienna, Brussels and
London's Trafalgar Square, where around 2,000 people braved the cold to come out
in solidarity with the victims.

The mass gatherings came four days after Saïd and Chérif Kouachi, two Frenchmen
of Algerian origin shot dead 12 people at Charlie Hebdo, the satirical magazine.
They claimed to be acting on the orders of al-Qaeda in Yemen. Their bloody
assault was the start of a "synchronised" attack that saw Amedy Coulibaly, a
32-year old Senegal-born Frenchman, shoot a policewoman on Thursday and a
further four hostages in a kosher supermarket in Vincennes, eastern Paris, on
Friday. Their murderous intolerance has been countered by a wave of solidarity.

In one poignant scene, a French Muslim trader handed flowers to a Jewish
demonstrator, who replied: "We are all brothers and sisters, we are all human
beings, and we are with the victims' families standing together during this
tragic period. We are united."

Zakaria Moumni, 34, a Franco-Moroccan draped in the French flag, agreed. "I am
here to show the terrorists they have not won. It is bringing people together of
all religions," she said.

On a street in Gennevilliers, where the Kouachi brothers had lived, reactions
were more mixed. "We're not in the march today because to us the Kouachis are
local heroes," one man in his 20s said."Today, we're celebrating."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Staff from the Charlie Hebdo magazine march arm-in-arm in Paris
yesterdayCentre: Hassen Chalghoumi, the Imam of Drancy, and Marek Halter, the
Jewish writerHEATHCLIFF O'MALLEY; AP; AFP/GETTY IMAGES; APAIMAGES/REXTens of
thousands wave flags and placards as they walk through central Paris in the
Unity rally. People worldwide marched in solidarity, including Palestinian
security forces on the West Bank, top; a child in Stockholm, above left; and a
woman in MadridFrom left: Enda Kenny (Ireland), Jens Stoltenberg (Norway),
Antonis Samaras (Greece), Mariano Rajoy (Spain), David Cameron, Helle
Thorning-Schmidt (Denmark), Ewa Kopacz (Poland), Federica Mogherini (EU
official), Thorbjorn Jagland (Council of Europe),Anne Hidalgo (Paris mayor),
Jean-Claude Juncker (EC president), Benjamin Netanyahu (Israel), Ibrahim
Boubacar Keïta (Mali), François Hollande, Angela Merkel, Donald Tusk (EU),
Mahmoud Abbas (Palestinian president), Queen Rania and King Abdullah II (Jordan)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 12, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Wider events can give a show resonance';
She was playing Mrs Thatcher in the West End when the former PM died. Now, Haydn
Gwynne is in a musical comedy that features an Islamic terrorist attack

BYLINE: Judith Woods

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1572 words


Back in April 2013, Haydn Gwynne was on stage playing Mrs Thatcher, opposite
Dame Helen Mirren as Her Majesty the Queen, on the day the former prime minister
died.

"It was electrifying; the audience were absolutely petrified about how they
should react," recalls Gywnne. "The way the play was written had created a huge
build-up before my entrance and so when I walked on, with Mrs Thatcher's
distinctive gait, there was always laughter.

"That night, there was absolute silence; the anxious feeling in the auditorium
was so palpable and overwhelming that for a moment there was a very real danger
that we would be infected, but I took a mental deep breath, and I'm sure Helen
did, too. We seized control and the audience relaxed and came with us."

Fast forward to January 2015, and Gwynne finds herself in an eerily similar
position. This week sees her once again in the West End for the opening of a new
musical version of Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown - which features a
subplot about an armed Islamic terrorist mounting an attack in the centre of a
European city.

If, as Karl Marx claimed, history repeats itself first as tragedy, then the
manic, orchestrated chaos of this Pedro Almodóvar adaptation, starring Tamsin
Greig in her musical debut, incontrovertibly qualifies for its second repetition
- as farce.

In the wake of the Paris outrage, commentators and cartoonists have impressed
upon us that laughter is the best way to show our defiance in the face of
"murderous clowns".

All the same, just how will London theatre-goers react to the unnerving sight of
a heavily armed Islamic bomber played for laughs? Gwynne looks pained, gazes
heavenwards and marshals her thoughts before answering.

"That's what defines live theatre," she says. "When wider events give a show
this sort of resonance, it lends the experience an added dimension. I don't feel
we're insulting anybody, but it will be very interesting to see how the audience
reacts."

Tall and willowy in skinny jeans and chunky boots, Gwynne may be in her fifties
- "I only ever refer to my playing age," she quips - but with her poise and
strong, intelligent features she remains an elegant head-turner.

Even now, almost quarter of a century on, she remains instantly recognisable as
Alex, the acerbically witty voice of sanity in the cutting-edge television
newsroom comedy Drop the Dead Donkey in the Nineties.

There's a simplistic and largely erroneous assumption that once an actress or
actor disappears from prime-time, they've disappeared altogether. On the
contrary, Gwynne has not only just finished a hugely acclaimed tour of Richard
III with Kevin Spacey, but has also forged a successful parallel career as a
Tony and Olivier Award-nominated star of musical theatre, most notably in a long
run of the smash hit Billy Elliot, in the West End and on Broadway.

"I think I've stayed in work because singing gives me another string to my
proverbial bow," she says, echoing the recent remarks by The Voice judge Rita
Ora, who observed that even chart-topping singers need more than one talent in
order to safeguard the longevity of their career.

It's a pragmatic attitude that reflects Gwynne's down-toearth nature; mother of
two teenage sons, Orlando, aged 17, and 14-year-old Harry with her
psychotherapist partner, she describes herself as a classic, strung-out example
of the 'sandwich generation'.

Her father died some years ago, but her mother, who is now in her nineties, has
reached the stage of needing more care at home. As she lives in Sussex, and
Gwynne is based in north London, there is much juggling to be done.

"I'm not unique; when I mention the title of this show, Women on the Verge of a
Nervous Breakdown, every woman I speak to goes: 'But that's me! I spend my life
clinging on precariously to my sanity!'''

It would be wrong to depict Women on the Verge as anything but an upbeat,
quirky, gazpacho-fuelled, Feydeauinspired comedy of errors that takes place over
48 hours. There are, however, moments of poignancy and emotion; and here Gwynne,
with her rich mezzo, excels.

She plays Lucia, a wronged wife who has been incarcerated in a psychiatric
hospital at her husband's behest for the best part of two decades. An
extravagant caricature who still dresses as she did 20 years previously in her
glorious Sixties heyday, Lucia is obsessed with the years she has lost and
genuinely believes the only way forward is to put the clock back.

"My character is a warning from history," says Gwynne. "She personifies what can
happen if you don't get your act together. But this isn't a kitchen-sink drama;
it's a mad, whirling story told with humour and verve."

All the same, when Gwynne belts out her number about how, as a woman of a
certain age, she has been conferred with the phenomenal, if unwelcome,
superpower of invisibility, there's a universal truth at its satirical core.

"Things are pretty much the same as how they used to be," she sings. "The young
men are still smiling/They just never smile at me."

Off-stage, a furore running currently over Russell Crowe's remarks that
actresses should stop trying to play parts that are too young for them has
thrown the thorny subject of age into sharp relief.

Hollywood grande dame Meryl Streep stepped into the fray when she announced she
agreed with him. Although when she opined it was "good to live in the place that
you are", she was actually commenting on her dismay at turning 40 and suddenly
being offered roles that were too old for her.

Now 65, she is happily appearing as a witch in the new Stephen Sondheim musical
film, Into The Woods.

"Age is a huge issue for actresses,'' says Gwynne. ''Even Meryl had a fallow
period in her forties because she needed to get to the point she is at now. But
the trouble is that there are so few roles for that age group that once she or
Helen is cast, there's nothing left for anybody else."

It's an unpalatable fact that directors always cast as young as they can. For
that reason forty-something women are routinely played by thirty-something
actresses and sixty-somethings by fifty-somethings.

"The problem starts when you can no longer get away with 39, which, in a good
light, you can just about play until you are 45," she intones, with a wry smile.
"Once you're no longer shaggable, you end up playing the mother of the
shaggable.

"But I never really got the ingénue roles because I started out in acting quite
late and so I was playing 30-year-olds in my mid-twenties. And, besides, I'm not
sure there was much demand for tall ingénues with long noses."

Gwynne, who grew up in rural Sussex, studied languages at university. Fluent in
French and Italian, she took up a lectureship at the University of Rome in the
economic and business faculty.

"I suppressed my ambition to be an actress, I was in denial," she chuckles. "I
think I thought it wasn't a proper job and I was too old - I was in my
midtwenties, for heaven's sake! - and so when I finally told people my dark
secret, I felt I was coming out of the closet. I remember feeling surprised
people weren't more shocked."

Gwynne returned to Britain, moved back in with her parents and applied to every
single theatre company in the UK, as well as to drama schools. She received
offers of places to study drama, but was reluctant to take them up as "I'd been
a student both too recently and not recently enough to return to that
environment".

Her lucky break came in 1984, in the form of an Alan Ayckbourn play that
required some singing. Thereafter, she found fame in Drop the Dead Donkey
followed by roles in Peak Practice and Mersey Beat, before concentrating on
theatre.

A lot of faith has been placed in the British version of Women on the Verge of a
Nervous Breakdown because the original Broadway musical closed early due to poor
ticket sales. A huge amount of money was poured into the show but its
fast-paced, possibly overly European mayhem failed to strike a chord with US
sensibilities.

This British production is entirely new, from the set design to the costumes and
quite a few of the songs, and a fresh emphasis has been placed on the acting
rather than just the singing.

Ironically, despite the brio and carefree élan displayed by the performers,
musical theatre is an unremitting slog for the performers.

"It's so ironic; after Richard III, people come up to you and say 'how gruelling
that must have been' because they feel so emotionally drained, but you're fine,"
says Gwynne.

"With a musical they assume you must be having a blast, because they are so
energised, when really you are limp and exhausted afterwards. Singing really
takes it out of you, and if there's dancing as well, that's the real killer!"

Whatever the unspoken trials and tribulations of the actors, the success of any
show rests on the audience reaction, however near-the-knuckle the comedy, in
this particular case.

"It's good for an audience to remember they are not at the cinema and that there
is a connection between them and the actors," says Gwynne, who can be relied on
to take charge if faced with a mood of uncertainty. "There is nothing to compare
with the interaction of a live experience."

'Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown' is at the Playhouse Theatre (London
WC2; 0844 871 7631; www.atgtickets.com)

"When I mention the show's title, every woman I meet says, That's me! Tm
clinging to sanity!'

"I'm not sure there was ever much demand for tall ingénues with long noses

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: From the top: Haydn Gwynne at the Playhouse Theatre; rehearsing with
Tamsin Greig in 'Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown' and playing Margaret
Thatcher in 'The Queen' in 2013Haydn Gwynne (in the back row) as Alex in 'Drop
the Dead Donkey'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                            January 12, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

The capital of the world;
WE ARE ALL CHARLIE RALLIES ACROSS GLOBE SHOW WE STAND SIDE BY SIDE WITH FRANCE
Two million march through Paris in show of solidarity and defiance after jihadi
terror attacks

BYLINE: TOM PARRY; ANDY LINES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 642 words


STRIDING defiantly down a Paris boulevard yesterday, the people of France showed
they will never be cowed by terrorists.

Young and old, Muslim and Jew, black and white, they came together to reject the
murderous demands of the homegrown fanatics who slaughtered 17 innocent people.

More than 40 leaders marched at the helm of the procession, which snaked for
several miles.

Among them were Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netenyahu and the Palestinian
president Mahmoud Abbas, who linked arms with French president Francois
Hollande.

David Cameron joined a minute's silence before the rally and joined the applause
as people chanted "Charlie, Charlie" in memory of the slain Charlie Hebdo
journalists and cartoonists.

The politicians strode towards the Place de la Nation, sending a message to the
jihadist fanatics.

Hollande said: "Paris is the capital of the world today."

A sign in the crowd of up to two million summed up the feelings. It read: "They
wanted to bring France to its knees. They brought Europe to its feet."

Everywhere, there were people wearing badges, stickers and T-shirts and holding
homemade placards and banners, all emblazoned with the now familiar slogan Je
Suis Charlie.

In the last five days this simple phrase - meaning I Am Charlie - has become a
rallying call for a nation.

Eleven people died on Wednesday when brothers Cherif and Said Kouachi entered
the offices of the satirical magazine and opened fire.

The next day, lone gunman Amedy Coulibaly shot dead a policewoman in a southern
suburb of the capital.

On Friday, Coulibaly filled four hostages in a Jewish supermarket in Paris.

The three terrorists were all killed in two sieges that evening.

Many Muslims were among the crowds marching in Paris.

Abdul Rahman, 27, said: "I had to come to help show the world that these people
do not stand for Islam. They do not speak for my religion."

Many placards showed a Charlie Hebdo cartoon featuring a Muslim man embracing a
cartoonist - a symbol of reconciliation.

Many of those who gathered in the Place de la Republique were families
determined to show their disgust with what has happened.

Jean-Frederic Gerbeau came to the march with his wife Clothilde and their
children Francois, 11, and Lucile, 14.

He said: "The aggression is vile but we cannot allow that to stop us living our
lives. It was an attack on France and democracy."

Throughout the day, there were spontaneous renditions of the French national
anthem La Marseillaise.

People living in apartments lining the route stood on their balconies and
shouted: "Vive La France".

Shortly before the march moved off, grief-stricken families of some of the
Charlie Hebdo victims paused at the front, holding symbolic white balloons.

Cameron said after the rally: "It was very moving.

"The memory I will have is people of all ages, leaning out of their windows,
with the French flag and these great signs saying, 'I am Charlie.

I am a police officer. I am a Jew'. There were people of all ages wanting to
show real solidarity. As a Briton, I felt exactly the same."

Security was tight but a peaceful and relaxed atmosphere prevailed.

More than 3000 police officers were on duty, including marksmen stationed on
rooftops and platoons of riot police.

There were similar displays of solidarity and unity across France, with around
3.7million people joining marches and gatherings.

And support for the French nation came from around the world, with rallies in
Britain, New York, Madrid, Cairo, Sydney and Stockholm.

In London, thousands gathered in Trafalgar Square as the fountains rotated the
colours of the French national flag. Tower Bridge displayed the colours from 4pm
until 5.30pm.

Last night, stars at Hollywood's Golden Globe awards, including British actress
Helen Mirren, held up signs with the slogan Je Suis Charlie.

Outside the French Institute in Tokyo, crowds held a a minute's silence.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FLYING THE FLAG Marcher's message with facepaint. Above, Mirren at last
night's Golden GlobesBEACON OF FRIENDSHIP National Gallery is lit in French
flag's colours LONDONSTAND FOR FREEDOM Scots join French friends in the city's
Castlegate ABERDEENPEACE RAINS Supporters at the Donald Dewar statue in Buchanan
Street GLASGOWEDINBURGH WRITE WITH YOU Rankin shows his support in the
capitalGRIEF Hollande comforts Charlie Hebdo columnist Patrick PellouxMESSAGE
Marchers show the pen is always mightier than the swordUNITED Hollande and other
world leaders link arms at head of marchSHOW OF STRENGTH Marchers in Paris. Pic:
Bertrand Guay AFP/Getty

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            January 12, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fears on UK terror attack

BYLINE: JERRY LAWTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 229 words


SECURITY services were last night monitoring up to 150 Islamic State "sleepers"
feared to be plotting a Paris-style terror attack in Britain.

They have returned to the UK after travelling to the Middle East to join Islamic
State fighters.

Around 30 are under surveillance 24 hours a day.

The other 120 are having their risk status reassessed following the gun attacks
in the French capital.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe warned Brits to be
vigilant and report any suspicious activity immediately.

Terrorists are believed to have identified the UK's transport network as
vulnerable to attack.

Former Security Minister Lord West yesterday called for security services to be
given extra snooping powers to help them monitor suspects.

He also said Britain's gun laws should be tightened to restrict purchasing and
possession of ammunition.

MI5 chief Andrew Parker has said terror groups are plotting spectacular "mass
casualty" attacks.

"We know that we cannot hope to stop everything,'' he warned.

Chancellor George Osborne has handed the security services a new £100million
anti-terror fund to track lone-wolf extremists.

Mr Osborne said the cash had been handed over "in the last few weeks".

Meanwhile, the offices in Hamburg, Germany, of a newspaper which reprinted
magazine Charlie Hebdo's anti-Islamic cartoons were fire-bombed yesterday though
no-one was hurt.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALERT: Hogan-Howe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 2:20 PM GMT

'The threats remain' France deploys 10,000 troops in response to Paris terror
attacks

BYLINE: Aaron Brown

LENGTH: 619 words


FRANCE will mobilise almost as many troops on home soil as it currently has
serving in overseas operations following the shocking terrorist attacks that
left 17 dead last week.

BARCROFT

There has been an increased police presence throughout Paris, including here at
the unity march

News of the increase in security comes after Defence Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian
announced that France remains at risk of further terror attacks.

"The threats remain and we have to protect ourselves from them," Defence
Minister Le Drian told press after a cabinet meeting.

"It is an internal operation that will mobilise almost as many men as we have in
our overseas operations"

French soldiers will guard busy transport hubs, tourism sites and key buildings
- as well as mounting regular street patrols across the capital.

Additionally, some 5,000 police officers have been deployed to protect France's
717 Jewish schools.

The announcement came hours after the revelation that the man who killed four
people during a hostage stand-off in a Parisian kosher supermarket "undoubtedly"
had an accomplice.

French Prime Minister Manuel Valls pledged the hunt for the unnamed associate
"will go on".

It is believed the accomplice was in communication with Amedy Coulibaly, who
shot dead a young policewoman in southern Paris before taking hostages inside a
Jewish kosher supermarket.

WENN

The kosher supermarket where Amedy Coulibaly took hostages - before being gunned
down by police

SPLASH

More than one million people took the streets of Paris in a Unity March
yesterday

GETTY

A marcher lifts a fist clutching pencils during the Unity March for the 17
killed in Paris last week

Coulibaly was shot some 40 times when police stormed the supermarket - bringing
the siege to a violent end.

Mr Valls said the search is urgent because "the threat is still present".

A crisis meeting, chaired by President Francois Hollande, is set to take place
later today to discuss the country's security measures.

Mr Hollande and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu yesterday visited a
synagogue in an attempt to reassure the country's Jewish population, the largest
in Europe, that it is safe to stay in France in the aftermath of the terror
attacks.

The bodies of the four victims killed during the supermarket siege are to be
buried in Israel at the request of their families, Mr Netanyahu confirmed.

A funeral has provisionally been planned for tomorrow.

Mr Netanyahu is set to visit the infamous kosher supermarket later today to pay
tribute to the victims.

The horrific terror attacks in the French capital - which left 17 dead - have
raised questions over the country's intelligence service.

BARCROFT

Prime Minister David Cameron greets President Francois Hollande ahead of the
march

Prime Minister David Cameron has today met intelligence and security chiefs to
discuss the UK's response to the terror attacks.

Mr Cameron and Mr Hollande were among more than 3million marchers who walked
through the streets of Paris in a unity rally yesterday.

Mr Cameron, who has pledged to introduce "more comprehensive" powers to monitor
terror suspects in the UK, said Britain is facing the same threat as France.

He said: "We have to confront it in our own country, keeping our security strong
but also taking on this poisonous narrative that is radicalising young minds,
wherever we find it."

brightcove.createExperiences; Related articles 'Paris is the world's capital':
Global leaders lead 3.7million-strong march of defiance Paris shootings: London
landmarks lit in colours of French national flag Political class in denial over
cause of jihadist threat, says LEO MCKINSTRY Wife of Charlie Hebdo terror mentor
appeals her conviction using human rights laws

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            January 12, 2015 Monday

Cameron and intelligence chiefs discuss threat of UK terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Highlight; News Headlines

LENGTH: 93 words


Prime Minister David Cameron meets intelligence and security chiefs to discuss
whether further measures are needed to deal with the threat of terror attacks in
the UK. The meeting follows Cameron's attendance of a rally in Paris yesterday
where he joined French President Francois Hollande and world leaders to remember
the victims of last week's attacks in Paris.
 Hollande is also due to chair a crisis meeting on national security in Paris
today with cabinet ministers

Event Start Date: 2015-01-12

Event End Date: 2015-01-12

Event URL: http://www.number10.gov.uk/

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 3:45 PM GMT

Anonymous target terrorist Twitter accounts after Charlie Hebdo attack;
The hacker collective is targeting terrorist Twitter accounts, but
#OpCharlieHebdo has been hijacked by infamous marketing hoaxer Rantic

BYLINE: Hannah Jane Parkinson

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 531 words


Anonymous, the leaderless collection of hackers, has begun an effort to
eliminate terrorist Twitter accounts, in retaliation to the attacks which took
place in Paris last week.

Twelve individuals were killed during an attack on the offices of satirical
magazine Charlie Hebdo. Four people died in a shooting in a kosher supermarket
and a policewoman was also murdered.

The campaign by Anonymous, named #OpCharlieHebdo, seems to have been targeted by
hoax marketing company, Rantic.

Rantic, tied to the sockpuppet account @marielynn124, has registered
opcharliehebdo.com which redirects to Rantic.com. The faux marketing company has
previous form for hoaxing.

The OpCharlieHebdo Twitter account has moved swiftly to distance itself from
Rantic's meddling.

The #OpCharlieHebdo campaign released a statement in a Pastebin post :

"Anonymous has always fought for the freedom of speech, and will never let this
right besmirched by obscurantism and mysticism. Charlie Hebdo, historical figure
of satirical journalism has been targeted. Anonymous must remind every citizen
that the press's freedom is fundamental to democracy. Opinions, speech,
newspaper articles without threats nor pressure, all those things are rights you
can't change."

A video, consisting of black-and-white photographs of protests in Paris and
soundtracked by ominous moody music, was also posted to YouTube, expressing the
aims of the group. Another video was denounced as fake.

The main aim of the actual "operation" seems to be reporting terrorist Twitter
accounts to have them removed.

Supposed marketing company Rantic has been quick to hijack the campaign. Rantic
has a history linked to hoaxes and trolling.

Before Christmas, Rantic registered theinterviewstream.com domain, which was
purportedly where Sony would first stream The Interview.

Rantic is also thought to be responsible for the website which appeared last
year, EmmaYouAreNext.com, which hosted a fake countdown to non-existent nude
photographs of Emma Watson.

The website was presented as being the work of 4Chan, the message board behind
the hacking scandal which exposed photographs of celebrities including Jennifer
Lawrence and Kate Upton, in what became known as "The Fappening".

A false rumour was also spread by the group that Grand Theft Auto V was to be
pulled from PC release.

It's unclear what Rantic actually does, except for sell fake web traffic and
social media followers. The group has been known to go by SocialVEVO, and
Business Insider and the Daily Dot reported last year that members included
Jacob Povolotski, Yasha Swag, Swenzy, and Joey B.

Rantic's biggest claim to fame to date however appears to be a rap song about
pickles (8m views on YouTube).

Taking credit for the #OpCharlieHebdo campaign seems to just be its latest
meddling.


     ·    This article has been corrected to remove a reference to Alex From
          Target. The viral sensation surrounding the teen which was claimed to
          have been started by a different marketing film, Breakr, and not
          Rantic.


·                                            Mark Zuckerberg, Apple and Google
respond to Charlie Hebdo attack

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 10:03 AM GMT

David Cameron meets intelligence chiefs over UK response to terror threat;
Prime minister briefed by officials over Britain's preparedness for 'roving
firearms terrorist' attacks similar to Paris shootings

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, chief political correspondent

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 632 words


David Cameron has been briefed by Britain's intelligence chiefs on the dangers
of what the prime minister described as "roving firearms terrorist" attacks in
Britain along the lines of the Paris shootings.

As a leading counter-terrorist expert said that Islamist extremists were now
intent on launching "marauding attacks", rather than targeting aircraft, Cameron
had said he planned to use the meeting with the intelligence chiefs to ensure
Britain was prepared for such an attack.

The prime minister met the intelligence in Downing Street on Monday morning
after returning from what he described as the "unbelievable" unity march in
Paris.

Speaking on the steps of the British embassy in Paris on Sunday, Cameron
suggested that the main focus of the meeting with the intelligence chiefs would
be to assess Britain's preparedness if extremists sought to launch attacks on
the lines of the Paris shootings or the attacks in Mumbai in 2008.

He told the BBC: "One of the things I will be checking up on is that we have
looked at every potential scenario, we've looked at what happens in other
countries, how the threats could change. I remember going back to when I first
became prime minister we held a whole series of meetings to examine how we'd
respond to the sort of attack that took place in Mumbai - a sort of roving
firearms terrorist attack, not totally unlike what we saw in Paris. These are
incredibly difficult situations to prepare for.

"We are fortunate that we have very capable counter-terrorism police, we have
very capable security and intelligence services, we have brilliant special
forces. We need to make sure we have everything in place to cope with whatever
situation might arise. But we live in a free and open democracy. You cannot be
certain of always preventing attacks like these from taking place. I think what
changes [after Paris] is running through all the potential scenarios, all the
things that happened again and asking again - because of course we have asked
these questions many times in the past - have we got everything we need to
respond to these sorts of attacks."

Prof Michael Clarke, director general of the Royal United Services Institute,
said extremists were switching tactics and launching "marauding" gun attacks
rather than attacking aircraft. Clarke told the BBC Radio 4's Today programme:
"The jihadists are great creatures of fashion. The fashion at the moment is for
what the police call marauding attacks - not terribly well organised attacks but
attacks which just take weapons and kill as many as they can in public places.

"What we saw in Paris was a bit more of a directed version of that ... That is
exactly what would-be jihadists in the UK have been trying to do. So this
fashion, not so much to attacks aircraft and airports but to go for these
marauding attacks, is likely to increase. Quite a lot of what is happening in
the Middle East, in Syria with Isis, is going to increase that motivation."

The prime minister is also understood to have told the intelligence chiefs he
will introduce the so-called snoopers' charter after a Tory general election win
as he redoubles Britain's efforts to tackle the "poisonous death cult" of
Islamist extremists.

In marked contrast to Ed Miliband, the Labour party leader, who rejected calls
for an immediate revival of the charter in the UK after last week's terrorist
attacks in Paris, the prime minister said he would adopt a more comprehensive
approach to surveillance than he has done in coalition.

Cameron's remarks suggest that surveillance could become a divisive issue at the
general election. Miliband said after his own talks with the intelligence chiefs
that he would adopt a cautious and considered approach in answer to calls for
increased surveillance powers for the intelligence agencies.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 6:34 AM GMT

Murdoch's 'Moslem' tweet greeted by silence and sneers;
The 83-year-old media mogul is in hot water again over his tweet holding Muslims
to account in the wake of the Charlie Hedbo massacre. Where is Murdoch's filter?
· Murdoch says Muslims must be held responsible for France terror attacks

BYLINE: Amanda Meade

SECTION: MEDIA

LENGTH: 731 words


Almost every time Rupert Murdoch tweets, his 140-character posts make headlines
around the world. And not in a good way. Less than a month ago he caused outrage
by congratulating his Sydney tabloid for its coverage of the "bloody outcome" of
the Lindt cafe siege; and he certainly has form offending Muslims.

But the 83-year-old media mogul's tweet on Saturday 10 January about holding all
Muslims responsible for "jihadist cancer" went further than his trademark
political incorrectness. It is arguably his most outrageous post yet and has had
a global impact.

"Maybe most Moslems peaceful, but until they recognize and destroy their growing
jihadist cancer they must be held responsible.

"Big jihadist danger looming everywhere from Philippines to Africa to Europe to
US. Political correctness makes for denial and hypocrisy," he wrote.

Guardian Australia understands there have been more than 140,000 tweets about
Rupert's tweet and that tweet activity peaked at 164 tweets per minute.

Since his first tweet on 1 January 2012, Twitter has been trouble for Murdoch.

He has been variously described as the man who put the "twit" in Twitter and as
a "geriatric Whack-A-Mole character" who pops up to sprout a crazy view before
disappearing again while we all talk about it.

In an age where the views of the business elite and world leaders are carefully
controlled by the corporate spin machine, this social media dynamo has clearly
never heard the words "think before you tweet".

Not only does he not consult any of his advisers before broadcasting his robust
views to the world, but he appears to have no internal filter either.

At what stage does his family or his company take his phone away from him?

The News Corp empire has been silent on the latest contribution from the boss.
While his infamous "Moslem" tweet continues to be reported on around the world,
we haven't spotted a single mention in any News Corp outlets. No Murdoch
loyalist has leapt to his defence either.

After the Sydney siege, Murdoch erroneously congratulated his newspaper the
Daily Telegraph for being the only news outlet to catch "the bloody outcome at
2.00 am".

But the reaction to that one was minimal compared to the "Moslem" tweet which
has been retweeted more than 5,000 times and favourited 2,655 times.

While at least some of Murdoch's half a million Twitter followers may agree with
him, the response from the world's media and public figures has been
overwhelmingly negative.

Notably, Harry Potter author JK Rowling has been widely congratulated for her
response, and has sparked a whole new round of stories about the tweet.

"I was born Christian," she said. "If that makes Rupert Murdoch my
responsibility, I'll auto-excommunicate."

Australian celebrities have not held back either. Comedians Adam Hills, Wil
Anderson and Dan Ilic were forthright in their condemnation.

Hills: "Maybe all Australians lovely but until we recognise and destroy the
growing pus sore that is @rupertmurdoch we must be held accountable."

Anderson: "Can't wait to hear Rupert Murdoch's opinions on the Koo Klux Klan...
"

Ilic: "I apologise for Rupert... so sorry..."

Some 20 publications around the world have embedded the tweet in a news report,
according to the headlines feed on Twitter, and it has made news throughout
Europe, North America and Russia.

You don't have to look far through his stream before you stumble across another
scandal, like the one about Egyptians being white.

"Moses film attacked on Twitter for all white cast. Since when are Egyptians not
white? All I know are," wrote Murdoch.

And who can forget this early one which so eloquently described his views on the
welfare state.

"How did fat lady who fell thru street get to 400 lbs? Welfare, stamps, etc?
Then leave us all with 20yrs immense health bills."

Murdoch's Twitter stream is also an endless source of typos and auto-correct
fails. He once tweeted "universal anger with Optus'' instead of "POTUS" or
president of the United States sending shockwaves through the Australian telco.
In his very first tweet he employed some curious punctuation: "Have just. Read
The Rational Optimist. Great book."

But do we really want him to stop tweeting? As the editorial director of the New
Daily, Bruce Guthrie wrote last year : "It's like we are hot-wired into the
brain of one of the world's most powerful men" and we don't want to lose that
access.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            January 12, 2015 Monday

United response to attack terror in Parisian magazine

BYLINE: Caroline Woollard

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 525 words


LAST week the pictures from the streets of Paris were horrifying; this weekend,
they were inspiring. Up to 1.6 million people marched, in sombre but defiant
mood, for tolerance and co-existence and were joined by many thousands of others
around the world. In France, they chanted for fraternity; in London, they turned
Tower Bridge red, white and blue; in Scotland, they quoted the words of the
Bard: a man's a man for a' that.

The scale of the events, staged as a riposte to the shootings in France, was
heartening and will hopefully form the basis of the considered international
response that is needed in the next few weeks and months. In the immediate
aftermath of the attacks at the magazine Charlie Hebdo and the Hyper Cacher
supermarket, there were fears of a violent backlash and there are still concerns
the National Front in France may exploit what has happened.

But what has been most noticeable about the public reaction has been the way in
which ordinary people have asserted their rights and freedoms not by calling for
an extreme response but by insisting they are not afraid and will carry on and
stay united: Muslim, Jew, those of faith and those of none.

The world leaders who led the march in Paris yesterday appear to have realised
this and their language has been restrained in most cases, although they also
know the threat of another attack in France or elsewhere remains and that
Charlie Hebdo must signal a close examination of what can be learned and what
should be changed.

In the UK, David Cameron, who was among those marching in Paris , has been
careful to be realistic about the continuing threat but also cautious about what
should be done about it. There are some who have called on the Government to
revive its Communications Data Bill which would require internet service
providers to maintain records of every user's activity. But one of the reasons
more than one million people marched in Paris was to defend freedom of
expression and governments should consider carefully whether an appropriate
response to terrorism is to further restrict individual liberties.

Mr Cameron will begin to form his response today when he meets his security
chiefs and he should bear several principles in mind. The first is that
evidence-led intelligence rather than blanket surveillance should be the bedrock
of the response. The security services should also have all the resources they
reasonably need, and international co-operation should be scrutinised to ensure
it is working to bear down as best it can on terrorists.

But the most important lesson comes from the people on the streets. World
leaders must do what they can to counter terrorism, but extremism will be
tackled in the community rather than the cabinet room. It is impossible to
reason with a man who kills another because of a cartoon, but governments and
community leaders must work with Muslims - those who joined the marches and
those who did not - to promote the principle that was on show yesterday. Some
expressed it through the French national anthem, others held up pencils, but
they all meant the same thing: a strong, safe society is based on mutual
respect.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                January 12, 2015
                                 First Edition

Spectre of more terror attacks looms as lapses by security services emerge;
TERRORISM

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 509 words


The spectre of more terror to come hung over the Paris march yesterday, as
further details began to emerge about the murders and how they followed a
long-laid plot.

As well as gunning down a policewoman and taking hostages in a Jewish shop, four
of whom were killed, 32-yearold Amedy Coulibaly, with a long record as a petty
criminal, was also behind the shooting of a jogger who had been left seriously
injured, said the police. The pistol he used to carry out the shooting,
according to reports, may have been used in other extremist attacks in the past,
and could provide leads about accomplices.

Meanwhile, there was confirmation from officials in Yemen that Chérif and Said
Kouachi, who murdered 12 people in the attack on the offices of Charlie Hebdo
before being killed, had been trained at Marib, an al-Qaeda stronghold in the
Arabian Peninsula (Aqap). The brothers, it was claimed, had also held meetings
with Anwar al-Awlaki, a highly influential American-born jihadist ideologue,
during the same visit to Yemen in 2011.

Chérif Kouachi had told a television station that he was fulfilling the mission
he had been sent on by Aqap to carry out in France with finances provided by
Awlaki, the "Bin Laden of the internet", who was tracked down by the CIA and
killed in a drone strike. The brothers were not put under observation by Yemeni
security forces, said an official in the capital, Sanaa, because neither the
French nor any other Western country had raised any concern about them.

It was also claimed that Chérif Kouachi, who was in Sanaa in 2009, purportedly
to study Arabic, met and may have shared a room with Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab,
the "underwear bomber" who is serving a life sentence after being convicted of
attempting to bring down an airliner over Detroit.

The French security services, it has been revealed, had ended surveillance of
the Kouachi brothers and Coulibaly because they were no longer considered to be
a threat - one of a series of decisions now under scrutiny. Questions are also
being asked about why officials were stating that Coulibaly's girlfriend, Hayat
Boumeddiene, was with him during the storming of the shop when, it now seems
highly likely, she had already fled the country.

Boumeddiene, 26, is believed to have flown to Turkey via Spain and entered
Syria. There is little chance of her being captured if, as is expected, she has
found refuge with Isis across the border.

The French Interior Minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, said France will remain on high
alert in the coming weeks. A number of people arrested, believed to be family
members of the killers, have been released. Among them was Mourad Hamid, Chérif
Kouachi's brother-in-law, who was originally named as a suspect, and had handed
himself into the police. He denounced what had been done in the name of Islam.
"This attack is horrific, it is nothing but a horrible crime, nothing but a
crime. My thoughts are with the victims," he said.

This attack is horrific, it is nothing but a horrible crime, nothing but a
crime. My thoughts are with the victims

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 11:02 PM GMT

Paris terror attacks: At least six members of terror cell may be at large,
police warn;
France has sent 5,000 police to Jewish schools

BYLINE: John Lichfield

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 567 words


At least one accomplice of the three Paris gunmen remains at large, French
authorities fear. A further 10,000 troops will be deployed to protect possible
targets around France. Almost 5,000 police officers will guard the country's 717
Jewish schools and synagogues.

French police tonight suggested the number could be larger, with up to six
members of a terrorist cell possibly at large, including a man who they said was
seen driving a car registered to the widow of one of the slain gunmen.

The Prime Minister, Manuel Valls, said yesterday that the "threat is still
present". He said security officials had concluded that Amedy Coulibaly, 32, the
man who murdered four people at a kosher supermarket last Friday, was working
with at least one other.

Two French police officials last night told the Associated Press that
authorities were searching the Paris area for the Mini Cooper registered to
Hayat Boumeddiene, the widow of Coulibaly.

Coulibaly said before he died in a hail of police bullets that he had planned
his attacks - including the murder of a young policewoman - in "synchronisation"
with the Kouachi brothers, who killed 12 people in an attack on the magazine
Charlie Hebdo.

Initial reports suggested that Coulibaly's accomplice might have been his
26-year-old common-law wife. It was confirmed by Turkish authorities on Monday,
however, that she had arrived in Istanbul on 2 January and was now believed to
be in Syria.

READ MORE: Paris under siege - a city shaken to the coreUS: higher-level
representative should have been at Marchlm copies of Charlie Hebdo to be
distributed on Wednesday

The fear that at least one accomplice remains at large is based partly - not
entirely - on the fact that a video in which Coulibaly boasts of his plans was
edited and posted on the internet after his death.

In pictures: Charlie Hebdo suspects siege

France caught its breath for the first time on Monday after last week's events
and the outpouring of popular defiance in "rallies for the Republic" in Paris
and more than 50 towns. More than five million people are believed to have taken
part. The Paris "march against hatred" was the largest public assembly in French
history.

There was a jarring note of dissent on Monday by the anti-Semitic comedian
Dieudonné M'bala M'bala, 48. He faces possible prosecution for "justifying
terrorist acts" after he appeared to declare his admiration for Coulibaly.

Dieudonné took part in the Paris march on Sunday. Afterwards, he posted a
mocking statement on Facebook. "After this historic, no legendary, march, a
magic moment equal to the Big Bang which created the Universe, or in a smaller
way comparable to the crowning of [the ancient Gaulish king] Vercingétorix, I am
going home. Let me say that... as far as I am concerned, I feel I am Charlie
Coulibaly."

Read more:JK Rowling condemns Murdoch over tweet blaming all MuslimsVideo shows
Amedy Coulibaly pledging allegiance to IsisMuslim man hailed a 'hero' for hiding
supermarket hostages

The comments were removed after a wave of protests on social media. The Interior
Minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, called them "abject" and said he had ordered
officials to consider legal action.

In response, Dieudonné said that his intended meaning was that he was a martyr
to attacks on freedom of speech, like Charlie Hebdo. The comedian said: "I am
considered like an Amedy Coulibaly when I am... just the same as Charlie."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 10:04 PM GMT

Paris terror attacks: US admits higher-level representative should have attended
Sunday's unity rally

BYLINE: Kashmira Gander

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 421 words


The White House has admitted that the United States should have sent a
higher-level representative to Sunday's unity march for the victims of the Paris
terror attacks, which was attended by around 40 world leaders.

President Obama's administration faced criticism from Republican politicians and
US media outlets for not sending a top leader to the rally in the French
capital.

Millions of people gathered in the centre of Paris on Sunday after extremist
Islamic militants killed 12 people at the offices of satirical magazine Charlie
Hebdo, and four others died in a separate attack at a Kosher supermarket.

French President Francois Hollande, British Prime Minister David Cameron, German
Chancellor Angela Merkel, Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas and Israel's Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu were among the 44 leaders who took part in the
march.

Meanwhile, the US was represented by its ambassador to France, Jane Hartley.

US Attorney General Eric Holder and Homeland Security Deputy Secretary Alejandro
Mayorkas were in Paris for security meetings on Sunday but did not attend the
march.

Florida Republican Senator Marco Rubio said the administration had made a
mistake by not at least sending Holder or Secretary of State Kerry to attend the
Sunday rally. And Senator Ted Cruz, a Republican, wrote for Time Magazine: "Our
president should have been there, because we must never hesitate to stand with
our allies."

White House spokesman Josh Earnest told reporters that Obama would have liked to
have gone.

Charlie Hebdo: Mourning in Paris

Read more: Video purports to show gunman's girlfriend in IstanbulAl-Qaeda gains
ground in Yemen as country descends into civil warCoulibaly 'accomplice on the
loose'3m copies of Charlie Hebdo to be distributed on Wednesday

"I think it's fair to say that we should have sent someone with a higher
profile,"he added.

"That said, there is no doubt that the American people and this administration
stand foursquare behind our allies in France as they face down this threat," he
said.

Security requirements were a central reason why neither Mr Obama nor Vice
President Joe Biden attended the demonstration, US administration officials also
said, adding that their security needs can be distracting from such events.

In the wake of last week's deadly attacks in France , Mr Obama denounced the
gunmen's actions and spoke to Mr Hollande soon after. He later went to the
French Embassy in Washington to sign a book of condolences.

Additional reporting by Reuters

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 7:07 PM GMT

Doctor Elsa Cayat: Psychoanalyst who wrote for 'Charlie Hebdo' and was murdered
in the terrorist attack on the magazine;
Her columns ranged from subjects such as parental authority to the roots of the
Holocaust

BYLINE: Chris Salewicz

SECTION: OBITUARIES

LENGTH: 753 words


In the month before she died Elsa Cayat received a pair of identical phone
calls: "You dirty Jew. Stop working for Charlie Hebdo. If you don't, we will
kill you." Concerned, this eminent Parisian psychiatrist and psychoanalyst, who
contributed a fortnightly column to the satirical magazine, discussed these
messages with her family. "We decided they were only verbal garbage," said her
younger brother, Frederick. "We didn't think it could actually happen."

On the morning of Wednesday 7 January, however, Elsa Cayat was the only woman
singled out to be murdered in the attack on the offices of Charlie Hebdo. "It
seems she was selected to be executed because she was Jewish," said her cousin
Sophie Bramly, a film producer and author. "They had a list of who they wanted
to shoot and said they weren't killing the women. But she was the only woman who
wasn't spared."

For the last three years, employing her psychiatric training, Cayat had written
"Charlie Divan" (Charlie on the Couch), a fortnightly column with wide-ranging
subject matter in the weekly magazine. Her final article conveyed the negative
impressions of one of her patients about Christmas; although her brief was to
cast a psychological slant on contemporary issues, Charlie Divan often
anonymously reflected the concerns of Elsa Cayat's patients.

Although she was born in Tunisia, Elsa's family moved to Paris, to the suburb of
Vincennes, when she was a toddler - she had an older sister, Beatrice, in
addition to Frederick. Her father, a gastroenterologist, was a card-carrying
Communist; her mother worked in the legal profession.

Fiery and somewhat hot-tempered as a child, as her cousin remembered, Cayat
especially blossomed at the weekend country retreat in Dourdan, an hour from
Paris, that her parents soon purchased. Though the property came with an
oversized garden, it was hardly a pastoral idyll. Both parents were demanding,
at an academically rigorous level: there was an insistence by them on lengthy,
demanding discussions of all manner of subjects. "It was not just a happy family
- in fact, she often didn't get on with her parents," said Bramly. "But it was
intellectually passionate, and that upbringing drove her to become who she did."

Before Cayat could meet the Charlie Hebdo team she established herself as a
highly successful Paris psychiatrist. Qualified as a doctor by the age of 21,
she immediately began training in her chosen discipline. (Her medical choice of
career had no impact on her voracious chain-smoking.)

A combination of intensely hard work - 12-15-hour days were the norm - and a
deeply empathetic manner and analytic mind, quickly brought success for this
clever woman. Her patients were legion, largely upper class and intellectual.

"She had a lot of patients because she gave her time to others and had an
ability to listen to other people, and wanted to help people to have a good
life," said her brother Frederick. "She was a good listener. That was paramount
in her dealings with her patients." Her fees were not cheap, and paid for her
practice on Avenue Mozart in the fashionable and pricey 16th arrondissement.

In 1998 she published her first book, its inscrutable title a reflection of her
demanding intelligence: Un Homme + Une Femme = Quoi? (A Man + A Woman = What?).
Nine years later came its successor, Le Désir et La Putain (Desire and The
Whore). This pair of books only enhanced her reputation and she started to move
in more literary circles. When, just over three years ago, she first socially
encountered Stéphane "Charb" Charbonnier and some of his Charlie Hebdo team, she
was immediately taken by them, recognising kindred spirits. "She was a woman who
was incredibly successful in her chosen field and wanted to mix with similarly
fervent people with extreme ideas in another area altogether," said Bramly.

Her feelings were reciprocated. "Le Divan", her column, began appearing shortly
afterwards in Charlie Hebdo. With a highly intelligent slant, it ranged,
reported Le Figaro, from subjects such as parental authority to the roots of the
Holocaust.

Never averse to investigating her own psyche, last summer Cayat flew with
Charbonnier and other Charlie Hebdo contributors to Peru, with the intention of
ingesting peyote. Returning from South America, she became a proselytiser for
the substance, recommending it to her 86-year-old aunt.

Elsa Cayat, psychiatrist and columnist: born Sfax, Tunisia March 9 1960; one
daughter; died Paris 7 January 2015.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 2:53 PM GMT

Paris terror attacks: Muslims have a 'special burden' to track down Islamist
extremists, says David Cameron;
Prime Minister agrees it is 'lazy' to say the attacks had nothing to do with
Islam

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 601 words


David Cameron has said that Muslims have a "special burden" to track down
Islamist extremists.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman confirmed Mr Cameron agreed with Culture
Secretary Sajid Javid who yesterday said it was "absolutely fair to say that
there is a special burden on Muslim communities because, whether we like it or
not, these terrorists call themselves Muslims".

Speaking on Radio 5 Live, Mr Javid added that it was "lazy" and "wrong" to say
that France's terror attacks had nothing to do with Muslims.

Mr Cameron's spokesman said: "He would agree with the points that the Secretary
of State for Culture, Media and Sport was making."

Read more: Cameron pledges new 'snoopers' charter'Apology for 'totally Muslim'
BirminghamCameron to discuss greater spying powers

"One of the things we should bear in mind is that it is that community whose
religion is being warped and it is families in that community who are having to
face the fact that a small number of their relatives, often strongly against
their wishes, are travelling to join radical groups."

Downing Street also confirmed that Britain's security forces will replicate the
Paris terror attacks in its counter-terror exercises, Downing Street has
announced.

In pictures: Charlie Hebdo Demonstration, Paris

Fresh efforts to crack down on the smuggling of illegal firearms were also
agreed at a meeting of intelligence and security chiefs chaired by David
Cameron.

The talks follow the Prime Minister's return from France where he joined world
leaders yesterday on a unity rally joined by more than one million marchers in
Paris.

Downing Street said future counterterror exercises, which are held regularly
across the country, would be modified to "learn the lessons" of the French
atrocities.

That will include how to respond to co-ordinated attacks such as the wave of
bombings and shootings in crowded areas of Mumbai that left 164 people dead in
2008.

The Charlie Hebdo killlers, Said and Cherif Kouachi, were in contact with Amedy
Coulibaly, who murdered a policewoman and four people at a kosher supermarket.

The exercises will also focus on combating terrorist action when the
perpetrators are on the move between urban and rural areas.

The Kouachi brothers fled to woods outside Paris before being cornered and shot
by police.

Mr Cameron said yesterday that Britain faced the same threat as France from a
"fanatical death cult of Islamist extremist violence".

He added: "We have to confront it in our own country, keeping our security
strong but also taking on this poisonous narrative that is radicalising young
minds, wherever we find it."

After today's talks, a Downing Street spokesman said: "Following an intelligence
update, they discussed the UK's preparedness for similar incidents.

"The relevant police and agencies regularly carry out exercises to test their
response to a terror attack, including scenarios similar to the incidents in
Paris.

"The meeting agreed that for future exercises, the relevant agencies should
identify whether there are any further specific elements of the Paris attack
that should be built into the exercise scenarios."

The Prime Minister also asked the police and military to continue to work
closely together to ensure that the police can call on appropriate military
assistance when required across the country."

The spokesman added: "They also discussed the risk posed by firearms, agreeing
that our existing tough firearms laws are a very important part of the
protections we have and that we should step up our efforts with other countries
to crack down on the illegal smuggling of weapons across borders."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 1:02 PM GMT

Paris march: Critics say President Barack Obama 'let the world down' by not
attending rally;
The US President did not join 44 world leaders in a show of solidarity after
days of terror attacks

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 622 words


President Barack Obama is being criticised for not joining more than 40 world
leaders alongside the millions who attended a huge solidarity march in Paris
yesterday.

David Cameron and Angela Merkel linked arms with President Francois Hollande and
dignitaries from countries including Turkey, Israel and Italy during what was
believed to be the largest gathering in Paris since the celebrations marking
liberation from the Nazis in 1944.

The US president's absence was conspicuous amid the international show of unity
in the wake of three days of terror attacks in France that started with the
Charlie Hebdo massacre on Wednesday.

His ambassador to France, Jane Hartley, was sent to the demonstration but her
presence was not enough for US media outlets, who questioned why President Obama
himself or at least the Secretary of State or Vice President did not attend.

An early look at tomorrow's front page. Read more:
http://t.co/v2v4891iq1pic.twitter.com/1fkYviE89s- New York Daily News
(@NYDailyNews) January 12, 2015

The New York Daily News carried a front page today dominated by a picture of the
march and the headline "You let the world down".

Fareed Zakaria, who hosts a public affairs programme on US network CNN, said the
absence of senior US officials was a mistake.

Read more: World leaders join Paris rallyPoliticians who repress freedom of
speech march Hollande 'asked Netanyahu not to attend demo'

Fox News host Greta Van Susteren tweeted: "This is really embarrassing - WHERE
IS PRESIDENT OBAMA? Why didn't he go?"

"Sad that 50 world leaders could show solidarity in Paris but President Obama
refused to participate. The cowardice continues," added Newt Gingrich, former
speaker of the US House of Representatives.

French commentators appeared to take little notice, with some remarking that his
attendance would be unthinkable given the level of security accompanying him to
public functions.

John Kerry was in India for a previously scheduled visit and the US Attorney
General Eric Holder was left to meet with his counterparts in Paris to discuss
ways to prevent violent extremism, without going to the march.

The Secretary of State, who will travel to France on his way back to the US,
said he did not believe "the people of France have any doubt about America's
understanding about what happened, about our personal sense of loss and our deep
commitment to the people of France in this moment of trial".

The White House did not immediately respond to requests for comment. But Obama
on Friday pledged US support for France, saying: "I want the people of France to
know that the United States stands with you today, stands with you tomorrow."

A spokesperson said the President will be holding a global security meeting in
Washington in February to discuss domestic and international efforts to
counteract violent extremism.

Mr Kerry told a news conference that he and the President were "deeply engaged"
with French authorities almost immediately after the first attack occurred and
had offered intelligence assistance.

In pictures: Charlie Hebdo Demonstration, Paris

When asked about criticism about the march, he added: "I really think that this
is sort of quibbling a little bit in the sense that our Assistant Secretary of
State Victoria Nuland was there and marched, our ambassador was there and
marched, many people from the embassy were there and marched.

"I would have personally very much wanted to have been there but couldn't do so
because of the commitment that I had here and it is important to keep these
kinds of commitments."

Mr Kerry will arrive in Paris on Thursday after stops in Sofia, Bulgaria and
Geneva, Switzerland.

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 11:00 AM GMT

'Israel is your home' Benjamin Netanyahu tells French Jews after Charlie Hebdo
rally;
Israeli PM invites European Jews to emigrate in wake of the Paris terror attacks

BYLINE: Helen Nianias

SECTION: PEOPLE

LENGTH: 378 words


Benjamin Netanyahu urged the Jewish population of Europe to emigrate but his
remarks were met with hostility from Jewish rights groups.

The Israeli PM tweeted that "the state of Israel is your home" to all French and
European Jews after four Jewish men died at the hands of Islamic terrorist Amedy
Coulibaly at Paris' Hyper Cacher kosher deli on Friday.

To all the Jews of France, all the Jews of Europe, Israel is not just the place
in whose direction you pray, the state of Israel is your home
[#x5d1][#x5e0][#x5d9][#x5de][#x5d9][#x5df]
[#x5e0][#x5ea][#x5e0][#x5d9][#x5d4][#x5d5] (@netanyahu) January 10, 2015

The bodies of all four victims will be flown out to Israel on Tuesday morning
for burial. Netanyahu is expected to read eulogies for the men in Jerusalem
later this week.

His remarks were met with hostility by director of the European Jewish
Association Rabbi Menachem Margolin, who told news website NRG that Israel "must
cease this Pavlovian reaction every time Jews in Europe are attacked".

Margolin added: "Every such Israeli campaign severely weakens and damages the
Jewish communities that have the right to live securely wherever they are."

In pictures: Charlie Hebdo Demonstration, Paris

It was reported byHaaretz that French president Francois Hollande did not want
Netanyahu to join the Paris memorial march on Sunday, which 3.7million people
attended, as he was concerned it would shift the spotlight onto the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict and Jewish-Muslim relations.

However, the Israeli PM shrugged off criticism, saying it was important that the
world saw the world unite against terrorism. He said: "There was a great deal of
significance to what the world saw, the prime minister of Israel marching
together with all leaders of the world in one effort against terrorism, or at
least a call to unite against terrorism."

Twitter users noticed that, during the march, Netanyahu appeared to push his way
to the front line of the march alongside leaders such as Angela Merkel  and
Hollande.

For anyone who missed it, here's Netanyahu's shameless shimmy to the front of
yesterday's march in Paris pic.twitter.com/jzm3OX57Sp; James Ingram
(@IngyIngram) January 12, 2015 Read more: Thousands of troops sent to Jewish
schoolsRussell Brand's call for tolerance following Paris attacksQuenelle
comedian Dieudonné praises terrorist killer

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 9:56 AM GMT

Paris attacks live: Thousands of troops sent to Jewish schools amid fears of
anti-Semitic attacks;
Live updates as France reels from three days of terror attacks that left 17
people dead

BYLINE: Lizzie Dearden

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 203 words


Almost 5,000 troops have been deployed to Jewish schools in every part of France
today as the country continues to reel from three days of terror attacks that
rocked the world.

Here are the latest updates:

· World leaders join millions in Paris solidarity march

· Thousands of troops sent to guard Jewish schools

· Video shows gunman Amedy Coulibaly pledging allegiance to Isis

· Witness regrets putting footage of officer's death online

· German newspaper firebombed for publishing Charlie Hebdo cartoons

· Israeli Jews urge French Jews to flee country

· Teenager initially named as suspect released without charge

Please wait a moment for the live blog to load

World leaders including David Cameron and Angela Merkel joined François Hollande
for a huge march in Paris yesterday that united millions in condemning last
week's murders and showing unity in the face of terrorism.

"Today, Paris is the capital of the world," said President Hollande. "Our entire
country will rise up towards something better."

Dozens of countries around the world saw similar demonstrations and in London,
famous landmarks including Tower Bridge and the London Eye were lit up in the
colours of the French flag.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 8:49 AM GMT

Paris attacks: 'It's lazy to say France's terrorist attacks nothing to do with
Islam', says Culture Secretary Sajid Javid;
The Government has ruled out the introduction of airport-style security at rail
and underground stations in the wake of the French attacks

BYLINE: Chris Green

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 655 words


People who claim that the recent spate of terrorist attacks in France have
nothing to do with Islam are both "lazy" and "wrong", the Culture Secretary has
said.

Sajid Javid, a Muslim, called on Britain's Islamic community to contact the
police if they suspect someone they know has been radicalised or may be
vulnerable to the influence of hate preachers.

"The people carrying out these acts - what we have seen just horrifically this
week in Paris, what has happened in London, in Madrid, in Peshawar - these
people, they call themselves Muslims," he told the BBC on Sunday.

"The lazy answer I think from people out there would be to say, 'Look, this has
got nothing whatsoever to do with Islam or Muslims', and that should be the end
of that part of the debate."

He added: "It would be wrong, because you can't get away from the fact that
these people are using Islam, they are taking a great religion, a very peaceful
religion adhered to by more than a billion people around the world, and using it
as their tool to carry out their horrible activities."

The Conservative MP added that people should report anyone they fear may have
been radicalised. "It is important for anyone in Britain, whatever background
they are from, of any faith or none, if they know anything, if they think
someone might be radicalised or is being tempted, they should report that to the
authorities without delay," he said.

The Government has ruled out the introduction of airport-style security at rail
and underground stations in the wake of the French attacks, the Transport
Secretary Patrick McLoughlin said, but travellers may notice an increased police
presence at stations.

In pictures: Charlie Hebdo Demonstration, Paris

Lord West, the former head of the Royal Navy, said that Britons should "step
back and be calm" rather than seek a knee-jerk reaction, but added that there
was a case for tighter ammunition controls and increasing the amount of money
given to the security services.

Read more:Global leaders join 'unprecedented' rallyPoliticians who repress
freedom of speech join rallyFrench Israelis urge relations to emigrate to escape
anti-Semitism

Meanwhile, it emerged over the weekend that a Muslim cleric who has previously
been jailed for calling for the killing of British troops in Iraq gave a lecture
shortly after the events in Paris in which he described the UK as "the enemy of
Islam".

The Sunday Mirror reported that Mizanur Rahman, who is currently on police bail
having been arrested last year on suspicion of terrorism offences, also defended
the attack on the offices of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, accusing its
cartoonists of "insulting Islam" and saying that those who do "can't expect a
different result".

"Clearly what happened in France is a war. These cartoons is part of their own
war, is part of the pyschological warfare," he said in the lecture streamed live
over the internet on Friday evening. "You can't have that attitude. You know
what happens when you insult Muhammad."

In 2007 Rahman was jailed for six years for calling for the killing of UK
troops, but his sentence was reduced to four on appeal. Counter-extremism group
Stand For Peace said such rhetoric could prove to be the "driving force" behind
future killings and that authorities "should not treat him as just another
Islamist preacher".

It has also emerged that the wife of an al-Qaeda recruiter who reportedly
mentored the Charlie Hebdo gunmen is appealing against her terror-related
conviction on human rights grounds. Sylvie Beghal, whose husband Djamel Beghal
is said to have helped to radicalise the Kouachi brothers and is currently in
prison in France, was prosecuted after refusing to be questioned under
anti-terrorism legislation at a British airport in January 2011.

She lost her attempt to have her conviction quashed High Court, but has now
taken her case to the Supreme Court where it will be decided by Britain's most
senior judges.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            January 12, 2015 Monday

UNESCO chief joins world leaders for historic unity march in wake deadly
terrorist attacks in France

LENGTH: 775 words


January 11, 2015

The head of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
( UNESCO ), Irina Bokova, participated in today's historic march for freedom and
solidarity in Paris, held in the wake of the deadly terrorist assault on French
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo on Wednesday, and after three days of
subsequent attacks that killed 17 people in the country.



In a statement , the Director-General declared: "Beyond expressions of sympathy
and solidarity, we must act. For UNESCO, this means, first, to continue
supporting and advancing freedom of expression and of the press, fighting for
the safety of journalists and against impunity."

"We must bolster all our work in education, in promoting dialogue and
understanding between cultures and religions," Ms. Bokova goes on to say,
underscoring that fanatical violence "reflects a perversion of the mind of its
perpetrator, which can paralyze the thinking of those who are its victims,
spreading fear, blocking all reasoning and facilitating simplistic
assimilations."

"As sectarian violence spreads through hate speech, through lies and the
manipulation of religion, we must respond by fostering tools that enable young
people to resist such manipulations, and this brings us back to the founding
principle of UNESCO -- since wars begin in the minds of men and women, we must
build the defenses of peace in the minds of men and women."

Press reports suggest that hundreds of thousands of people have poured onto the
streets of Paris today amid heavy security in a massive show of unity and
support. This follows the shocking attacks that began on Wednesday, 7 January,
with a deadly assault by masked gunmen on the editorial staff at Charlie Hebdo ,
and two subsequent hostage takings at a Jewish supermarket in Paris, and a print
shop northeast of the French capital. Ultimately, 17 people were killed.

The horrific events drew strong condemnation from across the United Nations
system, including from Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon who declared that while the
attack was meant to divide, "this is a moment for solidarity. Around the world,
we must stand strong for freedom of expression and tolerance and stand against
forces of division and hate."

In a statement issued later in the day by his spokesperson, Mr. Ban, who is on
an official visit to India, welcomed the march and renewed his condolences to
the families of the victims of the attacks in France over the past week. Staffan
de Mistura, the Secretary-General's Special Envoy, represented the United
Nations at the march and joined in expressing the Organization's revulsion for
terrorism.

"He has been deeply moved by the images of today's march and the displays of
global solidarity over the past few days," said the statement, emphasizing the
UN chief's strong commitment to the essential work of countering extremism,
fighting anti-Semitism and other forms of discrimination, and upholding the
rights to freedom of speech and expression.

Calling in his statement for heightened efforts to promote tolerance and
understanding, Mr. Ban said: "The world must address this violence and division
in ways that do not exacerbate the problems and that ensure respect for human
rights and the rule of law." He also specifically warned against targeting
Muslims for reprisals. "Such unwarranted bias would only play into the hands of
terrorists and contribute to the spiral of violence," the statement added.

According to UNESCO, today's unity march brought together nearly 50 heads of
State and Government, including many political and religious leaders. Led by
French President Francois Hollande, the march was also expected to include the
leaders of Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Israel, Palestine and the
United Arab Emirates.

In her statement, the Director-General reiterated the mandate and commitment of
UNESCO in promoting freedom of expression and defending a free, pluralistic and
independent media. On behalf of the Organization, she expressed deep concern at
such brutal sectarian violence, calling for unity and solidarity in response.

"The attack in Vincennes is criminal and anti-Semitic, featuring horrendous
violence, following in the wake of the attacks of Toulouse and Brussels. Over
the last few days, unspeakable attacks have taken place against Muslim places of
worship and mosques have been desecrated."

Ms. Bokova said terrorists are seeking to divide society, to set communities
against each other, "and we must prevent this at all cost. This is the
significance of this march, and the meaning of my participation, on behalf of
the United Nations, guided by this spirit of solidarity."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            January 12, 2015 Monday

U.S. Condemns Terrorist Attacks in Borno State

LENGTH: 159 words


January 10, 2015

Jen Psaki

Department Spokesperson Washington, DC

The United States condemns the recent escalation of attacks on civilians carried
out by Boko Haram, which shows no regard for human life. All those responsible
for these recurring terrorist attacks must be held accountable.



The United States abhors such violence, which continues to take a terrible toll
on the people of Nigeria and the broader region, including Cameroon. We extend
our sympathies to the loved ones of all victims of violence at the hands of Boko
Haram.

The United States is committed to working with Nigeria and its neighbors to end
the scourge of Boko Haram. We urge Nigeria and its neighbors to take all
possible steps to address the urgent threat of Boko Haram. Even in the face of
these horrifying attacks, terrorist organizations like Boko Haram must not
distract Nigeria from carrying out credible and peaceful elections that reflect
the will of the Nigerian people.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 7:33 PM GMT

NYPD Commissioner warns the city expects lone wolf terror attack - as new video
threatens police officers, soldiers and civilians

BYLINE: ASHLEY COLLMAN FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 536 words



     ·    Latest ISIS video released Saturday calls on supporters to carry out
          lone wolf in the U.S.
     ·    NYPD warned to take the video more seriously in light of Paris attack




NYPD Commissioner William Bratton has warned the city expects an ISIS-inspired
lone wolf terror attack after a new video calling for strikes was released by
the group.

The NYPD have been warned to look out for jihadi attacks after the terrorist
group released a call to attack American police officers, soldiers, intelligence
officers and civilians in a social media video on Saturday.

'As you may recall, there was a similar threat, a Twitter threat, back in
September, and shortly thereafter there were a number of attacks in Canada,
Australia, also an attack here -- an ax-wielding individual attacked four of our
officers,' New York City Police Commissioner William Bratton said Monday on 'CBS
This Morning.'

Scroll Down for Video

Following this latest threat, an advisory was issued to NYPD officers urging
caution and awareness.

'This one is also very specifically directed at law enforcement personnel, so
we're encouraging officers that when they're on these fixed posts, that they be
even more vigilant that they might ordinarily be,' Bratton said to  CBS News.

 'They're there for a purpose, to protect that location, as well as to protect
themselves and the public. So if both of them are sitting in the car and they're
busy texting away or not paying attention of the surrounding area, they're much
more vulnerable to attack.'

An internal memo released to officers in the NYPD says that the new threat
should be taken more seriously 'in light of the terrorist attacks in France
earlier this week' which resulted in the death of more than a dozen people -
most of them staff members of the satirical newspaper.

Indeed, Bratton said that his biggest concern right now is the threat of lone
wolf attacks in the city

'They're continually working to attract new recruits -- not to go fight in Syria
as much as to attract new recruits from around the world,' Bratton said to  CBS
News.

'They're extraordinarily skilled with their public relations campaign, if you
will - much more so than the traditional al Qaeda operatives.'

The specific warnings offer advice to officers how to conduct themselves in
public.

'If you are assigned to a fixed post, do not sit together in the RMP [police
car],' members of the Sergeants Benevolent Association union were told in an
email obtain by both The New York Daily News and New York Post.

'At least one officer must stand outside the vehicle at all times. Pay attention
to your surroundings. Officers must pay close attention to approaching
vehicles... Pay close attention to people as they approach. Look for their
hands.'

The video released on Saturday by ISIS starts with President Obama and British
Prime Minister David Cameron speaking about the terrorist group.

Then spokesman Abu Mohamad Al-Adnani appears and says: 'Do not let the battle
pass you by wherever you may be. Strike their police, security and intelligence
members, as well as their treacherous agents.'

Al-Adnani horrifying instructions encourage supporters to smash a targets head
with a rock 'or slaughter him with a knife, or run him over with your car'

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 6:32 PM GMT

JK Rowling condemns Rupert Murdoch on Twitter after he says ALL Muslims are
responsible for Paris terror attacks

BYLINE: SOPHIE JANE EVANS FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 978 words



     ·    British novelist, 49, posted a tweet saying that she was born a
          Christian
     ·    Wrote: If that makes Murdoch my responsibility, I'll
          auto-excommunicate'
     ·    Later mockingly accepted blame for Spanish Inquisition and Jim Bakker
     ·    In original post, Murdoch held all Muslims responsible for Paris
          attacks
     ·    83-year-old's claims sparked outrage globally, but he maintains stance
     ·    Tweet came two days after terrorists stormed Charlie Hebdo, killing 12
     ·    Over next two days, five more were gunned down in additional attacks
     ·    Acclaimed comedian Aziz Ansari has also ridiculed Murdoch's tweets


He sparked outrage globally when he blamed all Muslims for deadly jihadi
attacks.

And now, J.K. Rowling has hit out at media mogul Rupert Murdoch's tweet that
while 'Maybe most Moslems peaceful', all are responsible for a 'growing jihadist
cancer' until they work to destroy it.

Taking to Twitter herself, the 49-year-old British 'Harry Potter' author
sarcastically wrote: 'I was born Christian. If that makes Rupert Murdoch my
responsibility, I'll auto-excommunicate.'

She later mockingly accepted blame for the Spanish Inquisition, for any violence
by Christian fundamentalists and for Jim Bakker, the American televangelist who
was jailed for fraud.

Scroll down for video

And she also cited figures showing that 'eight times more Muslims' are killed by
'so-called Islamic terrorists than non-Muslims'.

By Monday morning, Rowling's initial tweet, posted on Sunday, had been shared
more than 23,000 times on the social networking site, with many congratulating
her on 'standing up' to Murdoch.

However, some accused of the billionaire novelist f adopting an 'apologist
attitude' - and even made reference to her iconic boy wizard character to get
their point across.

One user wrote: 'If Harry shared your cowardly apologist attitude the Death
Eaters would have killed him & his friends by the third book.'

Unfazed, Rowling replied: 'Smart move, choosing to make your argument by
referencing themes in Harry Potter. Keep that up, you're bound to win!'

Rowling is just one of many celebrities, politicians and members of the public
to have condemned Murdoch following his tweet, which was posted on Friday and
has been shared nearly 6,000 times.

In the post, the 83-year-old News Corp CEO wrote: 'Maybe most Moslems peaceful,
but until they recognize and destroy their growing jihadist cancer they must be
held responsible.'

Murdoch's tweet came just two days after terrorists stormed the offices of the
satirical newspaper, Charlie Hebdo, in Paris, gunning down 12 people, including
two police officers.

The following day, a French policewoman was shot dead in France's capital. And
the next (and final day of terror), four hostages were killed when a terrorist
seized a Jewish grocery store.

Despite the immediate public backlash, Murdoch refused to apologize or take back
his claims.

Instead, he posted further tweets in support of his point of view, telling his
more than 500,000 followers: 'Big jihadist danger looming everywhere from
Philippines to Africa to Europe to US.

'Political correctness makes for denial and hypocrisy.'

However, he did later pay homage to one of the slain officers, urging people to
remember 'the heroic sacrifice of Ahmed Merabet, Muslim police officer whose
funeral was today'.

On Sunday night, comedian Aziz Ansari, who was born in South Carolina to a Tamil
Muslim family that is originally from India, took to Twitter to ridicule
Murdoch's stance on the terror attacks.

The Parks & Recreation star, who considers himself an atheist, tweeted: 'Rups
can we get a step by step guide? How can my 60 year old parents in NC help
destroy terrorist groups? Plz advise.'

He later told his nearly five million followers: '@rupertmurdoch is responsible
for all pedophilia committed by anyone Catholic. @rupertmurdoch why are you
pro-pedophile :(.'

And he even got the Twitter hashtag #Rupertsfault trending in the United States,
with users jokingly blaming Murdoch for the actions of other white Americans and
Christians.

In recent days, thousands of Muslims have lashed out Murdoch for his claims,
accusing the businessman of blaming the terror attacks on an entire religion
with more than a billion followers.

One user blasted his sweeping generalisation, and said: '"they" as in most
Muslims????? You can't hold an entire religion of billions responsive [sic] for
the actions of a few'

Meanwhile, Erwin Renaldi said: 'I'm really sad reading this. Insulting my faith
and I have nothing to do with the extremists and I can do nothing.'

And Simon Edhouse added: 'Rupert, is West responsible for our extremists, Anders
Breivik? etc

Other users have questioned Murdoch's own morals, citing the phone-hacking
scandal at the now-defunct News of the World newspaper.

Michael Monan tweeted: '@rupertmurdoch In the same way that you must be held
responsible for ordering the hacking of the voicemails of dead school children?'

Murdoch's words also prompted ridicule - with white men, journalists,
Australians and men called Rupert apologising on his behalf.

The creator of BBC sitcom Citizen Khan, Adil Ray, who said: 'I think all of
Australia should be held responsible for Rupert Murdoch.'

Matt Haig added: 'Rupert Murdoch thinks all Muslims should apologise for
terrorism. So on behalf of white people I'd like to apologise for Rupert
Murdoch.'

Richard Robbins said: 'Am I to be held responsible for the rantings of
octogenarian media moguls because we're both Caucasian?'

Another user joked: 'Maybe most Ruperts peaceful, but until they recognize and
destroy cancerous media dinosaur @rupertmurdoch, they must be held responsible.'

To which, Rupert Franklin replied: 'I'd like to offer an apology on behalf of us
all. Murdoch's comments don't represent the views of mainstream Rupert
community.'

And Matt Haig added: 'Rupert Murdoch wrote a tweet. As someone who uses Twitter
I would like to apologise on his behalf.'

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 5:19 PM GMT

France will deploy 10,000 members of its security forces around 'sensitive
sites' including Jewish schools in the wake of Charlie Hebdo terror attacks

BYLINE: CHRIS PLEASANCE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 569 words



     ·    5,000 personnel will be sent to protect country's 717 Jewish schools
     ·    Troops will be deployed as backup over the course of the next two days
     ·    Prime Minister Manuel Valls said 'threat is still present' after Paris
          attacks


France is today mobilising 10,000 members of its security forces to station
around 'sensitive sites' after last week's terror attacks left 17 innocent
people dead in Paris.

Interior Minister Bernard Cazaneuve said 5,000 people will be sent to protect
the country's 717 Jewish schools, adding that troops would also be sent as
reinforcements over the next two days.

Jean-Yves Le Drian, the Minister for Defence, confirmed the deployment will
begin from tomorrow following a security briefing this morning.

Scroll down for video

The French Prime Minister Manuel Valls insisted the extra security was necessary
because 'the threat is still present' after last week's attacks.

Journalists, civilians and three police officers were killed after brothers Said
and Cherif Kouachi attacked the offices of magazine Charlie Hebdo, before
accomplice Amedy Coulibaly shot a traffic officer and took hostages inside a
Jewish supermarket.

Mr Valls told BFM television today that France is at war against 'terrorism,
against jihadism, against radical Islam'.

The news comes as David Cameron was briefed on the threat posed to Britain by
security chiefs in Downing Street this morning.

A No 10 spokesman said that future counter-terror training exercises will
include scenarios similar to the Paris attack.

Authorities say that Britain should seek to learn from what happened in the
French capital.

Mr Cameron, who joined French president Francoise Hollande and more than a
million marchers on the streets of Paris yesterday, emphasised the need for the
police to be able to call on military assistance in the event of a major
emergency.

He also stressed the importance of international co-operation to prevent the
cross-border smuggling of firearms and other weapons.

Meanwhile French authorities said they were hunting another 'probable
accomplice' to Amedy Coulibaly, 32, who shot a policewoman before leaving
another four people dead inside a Jewish supermarket.

Police say they want to speak to whoever edited and posted a suicide video which
appeared online after Coulibaly was shot dead by police. Detectives say the
footage was edited after the attacks.

Colibaly's girlfriend, Hayat Boumedienne, is on the run after managing to evade
French officers, cross Europe, and enter Turkey.

Mevlut Cavusoglu, Turkey's foreign minister, told the state-run Anadolu news
agency today that Hayat Boumedienne arrived in Turkey from Madrid on January 2,
ahead of the attacks.

He added that she had stayed at a hotel in Istanbul before crossing into Syria
on January 8.

It is believed Boumeddiene evaded capture in the Turkish capital because French
intelligence services did not share details of her identity with their Turkish
counterparts.

A source told MailOnline: 'She just slipped through the net. It is that simple.
It should not have happened.

'She should have been on the radar of French intelligence, and they should have
told their contacts about her movements - but they failed to do that.

'If the security services had done their job properly, they would never have let
her leave the country.

'But once she left France and arrived in Turkey, she had the opportunity to go
anywhere. It is unbelievable she has got away so easily.'

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 3:44 PM GMT

London hotel group under fire for advertising its new Paris venture using 'je
suis Charlie' hashtag in wake of terror attacks

BYLINE: MARTIN ROBINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 332 words



     ·    Hoxton hotel used famous hashtag to promote its upcoming Paris hotel
     ·    Used pictures of new venture with caption: 'Very chic don't you
          think?'
     ·    Critics have called the advert 'despicable beyond belief' and 'crass'
     ·    Chain has deleted the advert and apologised for 'any offence caused'


A top London hotel chain has today been called 'despicable beyond belief' for
using the Paris terror attacks to promote its new venture in the French capital.

The Hoxton Hotel used the JeSuisCharlie hashtag with a set of pictures of its
new hotel with the caption: 'very chic don't you think?'.

The chain posted pics of their new venture on Facebook along with the phrase
used by millions to show support for the victims of the French terror attacks.

The group, which has since apologised and deleted the post, caused uproar over
the online advert.

It read: 'Proud to be opening our second European hotel in Paris 2016. Very chic
don't you think? #jesuischarile‬ (sic)'.

One Facebook used posted on its page: 'This is despicable beyond belief - I'm
never going to stay in one of their hotels, and I strongly encourage everybody
else with a shred of self-awareness to do the same.'

Another asked: 'Did you really just use a hashtag meant to remember murdered
innocents to promote your hotel?

Abi Silvester wrote: 'Using #jesuischarlie to promote your business - with a
typo in the hashtag? Nice one, The Hoxton.'

A spokesman for The Hoxton said: 'A member of our team posted renderings of our
upcoming hotel opening in Paris.

'At the end of the post £jesuischarlie was used to show our solidarity with the
victims of the attacks in Paris.

'In no way was it our intention to use these atrocities to promote our new
hotel.

'This would not only be completely insensitive but unacceptable in our eyes.

'In hindsight, it was extremely poor judgement and clearly not intended to be
perceived in the way it has.

'We have since removed the post on Facebook and we would like to sincerely
apologise for any offence it may have caused.'

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 11:18 AM GMT

Controversial Australian Islamic group Hizb ut-Tahrir refuses to condemn
terrorist attacks in Paris... and calls on Muslims to resist the 'vile and
racist' West

BYLINE: SARAH CARTY FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 591 words



     ·    Hizb ut-Tahrir Australia has refused to condemn the Paris attacks
     ·    The group released a statement entitled We Will Not Abandon Our
          Prophet
     ·    Say response is disproportionate to countless others who die every day


     ·    Group believes political leaders are using the situation for own
          agenda
     ·    They have called on Muslims to resist the 'vile and racist' West


The leader of Hizb ut-Tahrir Australia has refused to condemn the brutal attacks
at the Charlie Hebdo offices this week, claiming his response should be a cause
for celebration, not condemnation.

In a statement released to the media, entitled We Will Not Abandon Our Prophet,
the Hizb ut- Tahrir leader, Ismail Alwahwah, said the group's refusal to
'succumb to the woeful moral ambivalence of the West' should be seen as good
news for Muslims, who must resist the vile and racist views of many European
powers.

He said the political response to the massacre in Paris was unprecedented and
disproportionate when compared with how many lose their lives everyday. He also
claimed that some political leaders have used the terrorist attacks for their
own agenda.

Hizb ut-Tahrir is an Islamic political party which advocates for the
establishment of a global caliphate.

'The biggest criminals of the world like Obama and Netanyahu are already seeking
to exploit the events of last week for their predictable but nefarious purposes,
despite the dust not settling and facts yet to be confirmed,' he said.

While most Australian Muslims leader in Australia have criticised the massacre
Hizb ut-Tahrir said Muslims 'do not need to be lectured about the sanctity of
human life' and the political response shows a 'callous and calculated
exploitation' to the recent attacks.

In a Facebook post, Hizb ut- Tahrir's media representative br Uthman Badar
claims Muslims should ignore provocative publications such as French magazine
Charlie Hebdo and scholars and activists seeking to ridicule The Prophet.

'We should not fall for the provocative and bullying tactics of magazines like
Charlie Hebdo and engage in vigilante style attacks. They are wrong, unwise and
counterproductive. They fall into the trap of being used to further demonise
Islam and justify draconian policies and an unjust foreign policy,' he said.

The radical Islamic group had also previously supported Sydney siege hostage
taker Man Haron Monis after he was convicted of sending hate letters to the
families of dead soldiers.

Uthman Badar, was embroiled in controversy earlier this year when he planned to
give a talk at Sydney's Festival of Dangerous Ideas titled Honour Killings Are
Morally Justified.

Mr Badar's speech was cancelled after a public outcry.

The group also came under fire after appearing on Australian TV show Lateline,
refusing to condemn the Islamic State's murderous campaign and lambasting US
military presence in Iraq.

In early August a gruesome photo of a young boy, believed to be Australian
terrorist Khaled Sharrouf's son, holding a severed head was posted on a Twitter
account.

 His friend Mohamed Elomar, a former Australian boxer, was also pictured
grinning widely as he posed with two decapitated heads. He then appeared in a
video handing out advice on how to access deadly explosives in Sydney.

In July, Sharrouf posted a picture of a child brandishing an assault rifle and
issued a call-to-arms for other Australian Muslims to join Islamic State's
bloody war in the Middle East as well as posting a photo on Twitter of a young
child brandishing a rifle.

Daily Mail Australia has contacted Hizb ut-Tahrir for comment.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 9:55 AM GMT

Now Kerry says he WILL go to Paris after U.S. was shamed for not attending rally
for victims of French terror attacks

BYLINE: SIMON TOMLINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 687 words



     ·    Rally was attended by some 40 world leaders and around a million
          people
     ·    Kerry insisted U.S. has been ' deeply engaged' with France since
          attacks
     ·    To a rrive in Paris Thursday after stops in India, Bulgaria and
          Switzerland


John Kerry said he will now travel to Paris after the U.S. government was shamed
for not joining a rally yesterday for victims of the French terror attacks
attended by 40 world leaders and a million people.

It came as a staggering 3.7million people gathered across France today to stage
further defiant marches in a moving tribute to the 17 people killed in hostage
sieges last week.

The Secretary of State said at a news conference that U.S. officials, including
himself and President Barack Obama, had been 'deeply engaged' with French
authorities almost immediately after the first attack occurred and had offered
intelligence assistance.

As to criticism about the lack of a senior official at Sunday's March, Kerry
said: 'I really think that this is sort of quibbling a little bit in the sense
that our Assistant Secretary of State Victoria Nuland was there and marched, our
ambassador was there and marched, many people from the embassy were there and
marched.

'As everybody knows, I have been here in India for a prior planned event,' he
added.

'I would have personally very much wanted to have been there but couldn't do so
because of the commitment that I had here and it is important to keep these
kinds of commitments.'

Kerry said he is going to France to reaffirm U.S. solidarity with America's
oldest ally. He said as soon as he heard about the march, he asked his team what
the earliest time was that he could go.

'That is why I am going there on the way home and to make it crystal clear how
passionately we feel about the events that have taken place there,' he said.

'I don't think he people of France have any doubt about America's understanding
about what happened, about our personal sense of loss and our deep commitment to
the people of France in this moment of trial.'

While in Paris, Kerry will be meeting with French Foreign Minister Laurent
Fabius and pay tribute to the victims of last week's attacks, which killed 17
people.

Kerry is a fluent French speaker, has a well-known affinity for France and has
visited Paris more than a dozen times since becoming secretary of state.

Kerry will arrive in Paris on Thursday after stops in Sofia, Bulgaria and
Geneva, Switzerland.

In Geneva, on Wednesday, Kerry will he meeting with Iranian Foreign Minister
Mohammed Javad Zarif to discuss the status of nuclear negotiations that are to
resume the next day.

Kerry will be the highest-ranking U.S. official to visit France since the
terrorist attacks on a French newspaper and a kosher supermarket.

Authorities say one of those involved in the attacks pledged allegiance to the
Islamic State group in a video. He and two other suspected extremists were
killed during police raids.

'I want to emphasize that the relationship with France is not about one day or
one particular moment,' Kerry said.

'It is an ongoing longtime relationship that is deeply, deeply based in the
shared values, and particularly the commitment that we share to freedom of
expression.'

'No single act of terror, no two people with a AK-47s, no hostage-taking at a
grocery store is ever going to prevent those who are committed to the march for
freedom to continue to march and to ultimately see all people enjoy their
rights, to be able to enjoy the protections that come with that freedom,' he
said.

The U.S. ambassador to France, Jane Hartley, was the top American official at
Sunday's unity march against barbarity.

Millions demonstrated across France, and rallies supporting the French were
reported in major cities around the world.

Obama offered condolences last week at the French Embassy in Washington.

'We stand united with our French brothers to ensure that justice is done and our
way of life is defended,' he said.

Kerry was in the Indian city of Ahmedabad on Sunday for a long-scheduled
appearance at an international investment conference, and to prepare for
President Barack Obama's trip to India later this month.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 7:20 AM GMT

'Je suis Charlie': Amal Clooney makes political statement on first Golden Globes
red carpet... as stars including Helen Mirren and Diane Kruger show support
after Paris terrorist attacks

BYLINE: NICOLE AGIUS and MICHAEL ZENNIE FOR DAILY MAIL ONLINE

SECTION: TV&SHOWBIZ

LENGTH: 1189 words



     ·    Mrs Clooney pinned a 'je suis Charlie' button to her Dior purse and
          husband George had one pinned on his jacket
     ·    Helen Mirren, Diane Kruger and Kathy Bates all held up signs with the
          phrase in solidarity with the journalists killed in Paris on Wednesday


Amal Clooney used her first Golden Globes red carpet to make a political
statement - pinning a 'je suis Charlie' button on her Dior handbag in support of
France following a series of terrorist attacks last week.

Mrs Clooney was joined by her husband George and several other stars who flashed
the viral phrase for cameras.

'I am Charlie' is a statement of solidarity with Charlie Hebdo, the satirical
magazine where eight journalists were murdered - along with two policemen and
two bystanders - by Islamist fanatics last weekend.

Dame Helen Mirren, Kathy Bates and Diane Kruger also voiced their support.

Scroll down for video

Film producer Harvey Weinstein wrote in a Variety column that he hopes stars use
the Golden Globes as a chance to pledge solidarity with French journalists who
were killed last week.

'There's always champagne on the table. I hope we can all raise glasses and that
someone like Tina, Amy or George Clooney will urge us to toast with 300 million
viewers around the world: 'Je suis Charlie, je suis juif, je suis Ahmed,' he
wrote.

Mrs Clooney, a British human rights lawyer, told  Elle  that she was wearing a
Dior gown and carrying a handbag that was 'customized in solidarity with the
French people who've gone through a terrible week.'

Dame Helen Mirren also used the Golden Globes as a golden opportunity to give
her verdict on the Paris terrorist attacks.

The dazzling 69-year-old also noticeably had a pen pinned to her stunning red
dress.

While Dame Helen is yet to officially speak out about the tragedy, the defiant
smile she wore while holding the poster spoke volumes.

The actress was of course at the Golden Globes as she had been put forward for
the Best Actress in a Motion Picture award in the comedy or musical category.

She had secured a nomination for her performance as Madame Mallory in the
hilarious blockbuster The Hundred Foot Journey.

However, despite the praise she received from critics for her role, the star
faced stiff competition from Amy Adams, Emily Blunt, Julianne Moore and
Quvenzhané Wallis for the prestigious gong.

A string of famous faces joined Dame Helen at the Golden Globes including
Jennifer Lopez, Keira Knightley and Catherine Zeta-Jones.

While some stars decided not to follow in Dame Helen's footsteps by commenting
on the recent terrorist attacks, several did.

Actors Kathy Bates, Joshua Jackson and Diane Kruger held up signs and
smartphones with 'Je Suis Charlie' to show support for victims of the deadly
attack last week.

Meanwhile, George Clooney, who will receive a lifetime achievement award, wore a
lapel pin with the same phrase while his wife Amal Alamuddin had her purse
customized with the slogan.

GOLDEN GLOBE NOMINATIONS 2015

FILM

Best Motion Picture - Drama

Boyhood

Foxcatcher

The Imitation Game

Selma

The Theory of Everything

Best Actor in a Motion Picture Drama

Steve Carell - Foxcatcher

Benedict Cumberbatch - The Imitation Game

Jake Gyllenhaal - Nightcrawler

David Oyelowo - Selma

Eddie Redmayne - The Theory of Everything

Best Actress in a Motion Picture- Drama

Jennifer Aniston - Cake

Felicity Jones - The Theory of Everything

Julianne Moore - Still Alice

Rosamund Pike - Gone Girl

Reese Witherspoon - Wild

Best Motion Picture - Comedy or Musical

Birdman

The Grand Budapest Hotel

Into the Woods

PrideSt. Vincent

Best Actor in a Motion Picture- Comedy or Musical

Ralph Fiennes - Grand Budapest Hotel

Michael Keaton - Birdman

Bill Murray - St. Vincent

Joaquin Phoenix - Inherent Vice

Christoph Waltz - Big Eyes

Best Actress in a Motion Picture- Comedy or Musical

Amy Adams - Big Eyes

Emily Blunt - Into the Woods

Helen Mirren - The Hundred Foot Journey

Julianne Moore - Maps to the Stars

Quvenzhané Wallis - Annie

Best Director

Wes Anderson - Grand Budapest Hotel

David Fincher - Gone Girl

Ava DuVernay - Selma

Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu - Birdman

Richard Linklater - Boyhood

Best Supporting Actor in a Motion Picture

Robert Duvall - The Judge

Ethan Hawke - Boyhood

Edward Norton - Birdman

Mark Ruffalo - Foxcatcher

J.K. Simmons - Whiplash

Best Supporting Actress in a Motion Picture

Patricia Arquette - Boyhood

Jessica Chastain - A Most Violent Year

Keira Knightley - The Imitation Game

Emma Stone - Birdman

Meryl Streep - Into the Woods

Best Screenplay

Wes Anderson - The Grand Budapest Hotel

Gillian Flynn - Gone Girl

Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu, Nicolas Giacobone, Alexander Dinelaris, Armando Bo
- Birdman

Richard Linklater - Boyhood

Graham Moore - The Imitation Game

Best Animated Feature

Big Hero 6

The Book of Life

Boxtrolls

How to Train Your Dragon 2

The Lego Movie

Best Foreign Film

Force Majeure (Turist), Sweden

Gett: The Trial of Viviane Amsalem Gett, Israel

Ida, Poland/Denmark

Leviathan, Russia

Tangerines (Mandariinid), Estonia

Best Original Song - Motion Picture

Big Eyes - Big Eyes (Lana Del Ray)

Glory - Selma (John Legend, Common)

Mercy Is - Noah (Patti Smith, Lenny Kaye)

Opportunity - Annie (Greg Kurstin, Sia Furler, Will Gluck)

Yellow Flicker Beat - Hunger Games, Mockingjay Part 1 (Lorde)

Best Original Score - Motion Picture

Alexandre Desplat - The Imitation Game

Johann Johannsson - The Theory of Everything

Trent Reznor, Atticus Ross - Gone Girl

Antonio Sanchez - Birdman

Hans Zimmer - Interstellar

TELEVISION

Best TV Drama

The Affair

Downton Abbey

Game of Thrones

The Good Wife

House of Cards

Best Actor - TV Drama

Clive Owen - The Knick

Liev Schreiber - Ray Donovan

Kevin Spacey - House of Cards

James Spader - The Blacklist

Dominic West - The Affair

Best Actress - TV Drama

Claire Danes - Homeland

Viola Davis - How to Get Away with Murder

Julianna Margulies - The Good Wife

Ruth Wilson - The Affair

Robin Wright - House of Cards

Best TV Miniseries or Movie

Fargo

The Missing

True Detective

The Normal Heart

Olive Kitteridge

Best Actor - TV Miniseries or Movie

Martin Freeman - Fargo

Woody Harrelson - True Detective

Matthew McConaughey - True Detective

Mark Ruffalo - The Normal Heart

Billy Bob Thornton - Fargo

Best Actress - TV Miniseries or Movie

Maggie Gyllenhaal - The Honorable Woman

Jessica Lange - American Horror Story: Freak Show

Frances McDormand - Olive Kitteridge

Frances O'Connor - The Missing

Alison Tolman - Fargo

Best TV Comedy

Girls

Jane the Virgin

Orange Is the New Black

Silicon Valley

Transparent

Best Actor - TV Comedy

Don Cheadle - House of Lies

Ricky Gervais - Derek

Jeffrey Tambor - Transparent

Louis C.K. - Louie

William H. Macy - Shameless

Best Actress - TV Comedy

Lena Dunham - Girls

Edie Falco - Nurse Jackie

Gina Rodriguez - Jane the Virgin

Julia Louis Dreyfus - Veep

Taylor Schilling - Orange Is the New Black

Best Supporting Actor - Series, Miniseries, or TV movie

Matt Bomer - The Normal Heart

Alan Cumming - The Good Wife

Colin Hanks - Fargo

Bill Murray - Olive Kitteridge

Jon Voight - Ray Donovan

Best Supporting Actress - Series, Miniseries, or TV movie

Uzo Aduba - Orange Is the New Black

Kathy Bates - American Horror Story: Freak Show

Joanne Froggatt - Downton Abbey

Allison Janney - Mom

Michelle Monaghan - True Detective

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 1:44 AM GMT

'Rupert Murdoch is a pus sore': Adam Hills fires up with scathing tweet after
media mogul said all Muslims are responsible for Paris terror attack

BYLINE: LOUISE CHEER FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA and KHALEDA RAHMAN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 735 words



     ·    Comedian Adam Hills has slammed the media mogul for his comments
     ·    Rupert Murdoch took to Twitter just three days after Paris terror
          attacks
     ·    Claims even peaceful Muslims must take responsibility for 'jihadist
          cancer'
     ·    Hills fired off the tweet and called Rupert Murdoch a 'growing pus
          sore'


Outspoken Australian comedian Adam Hills has slammed media mogul Rupert Murdoch
for a tweet he sent out three days after the Paris terrorist attacks, which said
all Muslims should be held responsible for the actions of jihadists.

Hills fired off a tweet on Monday, calling Murdoch a 'growing pus sore',
following the same formula the controversial News Corp boss used to compose his
comment.

The post from Murdoch, who has 500,000 followers, said: 'Maybe most Moslems
peaceful, but until they recognize and destroy their growing jihadist cancer
they must be held responsible.'

The comment attracted outrage from the social media community, including Hills.

'Maybe all Australians lovely but until we recognise and destroy the growing pus
sore that is we must be held accountable,' the host of UK talk show The Last Leg
posted.

Hills' post had attracted more than 1,500 retweets at the time of publication.

But this is not the first time, the comedian has hit out at controversial
figures.

This latest incident involving Murdoch follows Hills calling out the actions of
British TV personality Katie Hopkins who posted an insensitive stream of tweets
regarding a British Ebola sufferer.

On his show, Hills said he thought convicted paedophile Rolf Harris would have
'garnered his vote for d*** of the year but then a lady called Katie Hopkins
sent a tweet'.

Despite attracting criticism for his tweet, Murdoch maintained his stance,
tweeting his followers that 'political correctness' made for 'denial and
hypocrisy'.

He added: 'Big jihadist danger looming everywhere from Philippines to Africa to
Europe to US.

'Political correctness makes for denial and hypocrisy.'

Murdoch's words sparked a storm on the social network, with many Muslim users
outraged as Murdoch appeared to lay the blame for the terrorist attacks on
satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo and a kosher supermarket on an entire
religion, which has more than a billion followers.

One user blasted his sweeping generalisation, and said: '"they" as in most
Muslims????? You can't hold an entire religion of billions responsive [sic] for
the actions of a few'

Erwin Renaldi said: 'I'm really sad reading this. Insulting my faith and I have
nothing to do with the extremists and I can do nothing.'

Simon Edhouse added: 'Rupert, is West responsible for our extremists, Anders
Breivik? etc'.

Harry Potter author J. K. Rowling condemned Murdoch's comments, writing: 'I was
born Christian. If that makes Rupert Murdoch my responsibility, I'll
auto-excommunicate.'

She then added: 'The Spanish Inquisition was my fault, as is all Christian
fundamentalist violence. Oh, and Jim Bakker.'

Bakker is a disgraced pastor and televangelist who resigned amid a sex scandal,
and later served five years of an original 45-year prison sentence for fraud and
conspiracy, after stealing millions from charitable donations.

Others questioned Murdoch's own morals, and referred to the phone-hacking
scandal at the now-defunct News of the World newspaper.

Michael Monan replied: '@rupertmurdoch In the same way that you must be held
responsible for ordering the hacking of the voicemails of dead school children?'

Murdoch's words also prompted ridicule - with white men, journalists,
Australians and men called Rupert apologising on his behalf.

The creator of BBC sitcom Citizen Khan, Adil Ray, who said: 'I think all of
Australia should be held responsible for Rupert Murdoch.'

Matt Haig added: 'Rupert Murdoch thinks all Muslims should apologise for
terrorism. So on behalf of white people I'd like to apologise for Rupert
Murdoch.'

Richard Robbins said: 'Am I to be held responsible for the rantings of
octogenarian media moguls because we're both Caucasian?'

Another user joked: 'Maybe most Ruperts peaceful, but until they recognize and
destroy cancerous media dinosaur @rupertmurdoch, they must be held responsible.'

To which, Rupert Franklin replied: 'I'd like to offer an apology on behalf of us
all. Murdoch's comments don't represent the views of mainstream Rupert
community.'

And Matt Haig added: 'Rupert Murdoch wrote a tweet. As someone who uses Twitter
I would like to apologise on his behalf.'

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Monday Messenger

                                January 12, 2015

Militant mum backs terror attacks

LENGTH: 233  words


Chatham mum and Islamic militant Sally Jones has condoned the terror attacks in
Paris.

Jones, 47, who moved to Raqqa in Syria with her younger son to marry an Islamic
State fighter, used Twitter to express support for the gunmen who attacked the
offices of French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.

She tweeted: "Who printed cartoons of our Prophet PBUH and our Caliph Ibrahim
you filthy kuffs ... May Allah reward our brothers aameen #CharlieHebdo."

She also re-posted tweets of other users, including one that read: "May Allah
give the two mujahideen in France the highest of Jannah and may Allah help them
kill as many kafirs they can #ParisShooting Ameen."

Jones' message was countered by the president of Gillingham's Ahmadiyya Muslim
Community, Sheikh Naseer Ahmad, who condemned the gunmen.

"We condemn the attack on Charlie Hebdo and are deeply shocked by this atrocity
that has taken 12 lives and injured scores more," he said. "We offer our
condolences to the family of the victims and those left bereaved.

"It is a great source of regret that such violent acts and terrorist activities
continue to be associated with Islam - despite the fact they have nothing to do
with Islam's true teachings."

Following the attack at Charlie Hebdo, a policewoman was shot dead and four
hostages were killed at a koshser supermarket. A massive march was held in Paris
yesterday (Sunday) in the wake of the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                            January 12, 2015 Monday

Terror attacks

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 39 words


WILL those who were stirred by the Parisian mass display for solidarity in
fighting for peace, security and freedom of the Press (Echo, Jan 12) not now
contradict this spirit by voting to leave the European Union.

Peter Freitag, Darlington.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                            January 12, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Fears on UK terror attack

BYLINE: JERRY LAWTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 229 words


SECURITY services were last night monitoring up to 150 Islamic State "sleepers"
feared to be plotting a Paris-style terror attack in Britain.

They have returned to the UK after travelling to the Middle East to join Islamic
State fighters.

Around 30 are under surveillance 24 hours a day.

The other 120 are having their risk status reassessed following the gun attacks
in the French capital.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe warned Brits to be
vigilant and report any suspicious activity immediately.

Terrorists are believed to have identified the UK's transport network as
vulnerable to attack.

Former Security Minister Lord West yesterday called for security services to be
given extra snooping powers to help them monitor suspects.

He also said Britain's gun laws should be tightened to restrict purchasing and
possession of ammunition.

MI5 chief Andrew Parker has said terror groups are plotting spectacular "mass
casualty" attacks.

"We know that we cannot hope to stop everything,'' he warned.

Chancellor George Osborne has handed the security services a new £100million
anti-terror fund to track lone-wolf extremists.

Mr Osborne said the cash had been handed over "in the last few weeks".

Meanwhile, the offices in Hamburg, Germany, of a newspaper which reprinted
magazine Charlie Hebdo's anti-Islamic cartoons were fire-bombed yesterday though
no-one was hurt.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALERT: Hogan-Howe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                            January 12, 2015 Monday

UK to remodel terror exercises after Paris attacks

BYLINE: David Maddox

LENGTH: 395  words


A TOP-LEVEL security meeting chaired by the Prime Minister this morning has
agreed that the UK needs to remodel its preparations and exercises following the
attacks on Paris last week by Islamist extremists.

The meeting, which included heads of MI5, GCHQ and MI6, decided that the
scenarios played out in the French capital last week - including the attack on
the magazine Chairle Hebdon and histage stand-off in a Jewish supermarket -
should be added to the exercise scenarios carried out by security forces in the
UK.

A Downing Street spokesperson said: "Following an intelligence update, they
discussed the UK's preparedness for similar incidents. The relevant police and
agencies regularly carry out exercises to test their response to a terror
attack, including scenarios similar to the incidents in Paris.

CONNECT WITH THE SCOTSMAN

o {http://bit.ly/1yHJ7dx | Subscribe to our daily newsletter (requires
registration) | Link to newsletter sign up} and get the latest news, sport and
business headlines delivered to your inbox every morning

o You can also follow us on {http://on.fb.me/1yHJHb5 | Facebook | Link to The
Scotsman's Facebook page}, {http://bit.ly/1zJcWhW | Twitter | Link to The
Scotsman's Twitter page} and {http://bit.ly/1pYaV87 | Google + | Link to The
Scotsman's Google+ page}

"The meeting agreed that for future exercises, the relevant agencies should
identify whether there are any further specific elements of the Paris attack
that should be built into the exercise scenarios. The Prime Minister also asked
the police and military to continue to work closely together to ensure that the
police can call on appropriate military assistance when required across the
country.

"They also discussed the risk posed by firearms, agreeing that our existing
tough firearms laws are a very important part of the protections we have and
that we should step up our efforts with other countries to crackdown on the
illegal smuggling of weapons across borders."

SCOTSMAN TABLET AND IPHONE APPS

o Download your free 30-day trial for our {http://bit.ly/RIA37r | iPad | Link to
iTunes}, {http://bit.ly/1wFFxkF | Android | Link to the Android store} and
{http://amzn.to/1wCOXwp | Kindle | Link to Amazon store} apps

o {http://bit.ly/ZqN0Hr | Keep up to date with all aspects of Scottish life with
The Scotsman iPhone app, completely free to download and use | Link to iTunes}

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Scottish Daily Mail

                            January 12, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

UK terror attack unlikely, says police chief

BYLINE: Chris Greenwood

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 388 words


A FRESH terrorist outrage on British soil remains unlikely despite the carnage
in Paris, Britain's top police officer said yesterday.

Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe insisted police and the security services have a good
track record in keeping people safe.

But the Scotland Yard chief said he remains deeply concerned at the number of
people returning from fighting in Syria and Iraq.

'I don't think it's likely but I think we all know it's a possibility - the
threat level is severe and so therefore that means a terrorist attack is
possible,' he added.

'We do our best together with the security services to make sure the terrorists
don't succeed and that we keep people safe. To date, that's broadly what we've
been able to achieve.' Despite his comments the nation remained on high alert
last night amid fears of a copycat terrorist attack. Security was tightened at
ports and train stations amid fears the bloody Paris massacres could spark
further violence.

Officials were told to be particularly vigilant for attempt to smuggle firearms
into the country in a bid to emulate the atrocities on the continent. Senior
Whitehall sources warned that officials are poised to raise the terrorist threat
to from 'severe' to 'critical', the highest possible category.

They fear a hardcore of Al Qaeda terrorists in Syria are planning further 'mass
casualty attacks' against Western targets.

The most active branch of the global terror franchise, Al Qaeda in the Yemen,
has explicitly stated that the UK is its top target. It is believed several
dozen suspects thought to have links to the terror group or Islamic State remain
under constant surveillance.

Sir Bernard said one of his biggest concerns is young men leaving Britain to
join Islamic State militants. Speaking on Sky News, Sir Bernard called on
families to do everything they can to intervene before they can travel.

He said: 'The task is to get in there before they go, then we can talk to them
and talk to the charities who can help them and persuade them of the foolishness
of what they're about to embark on.' Up to 600 would-be jihadis are thought to
have travelled to Syria. Of those, as many as 300 are believed to have returned
from the front line.

Ministers are also considering new SAS-led counter terrorist response units to
help tackle the jihadi threat, it was claimed yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMLscot


                    Copyright 2015 Associated Newpapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 6:21 PM GMT

The Simpsons' tribute to Charlie Hebdo;
'Je Suis Charlie': how The Simpsons showed solidarity with the victims of the
Paris terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Rebecca Hawkes

SECTION: CULTURE

LENGTH: 157 words


A new episode of The Simpsons, broadcast last night on the US network Fox,
contained an unexpected tribute to the victims of the terrorist attack on the
satirical French magazine Charlie Hebdo.

The episode, Bart's Best Friend, was written by the Hollywood director Judd
Apatow 25 years ago, after just six episodes of the cartoon had aired.

After the tragic events of last week, the programme-makers decided to end
Apatow's episode with an image of baby Maggie against a red white and blue
background, waving a flag which read "Je Suis Charlie". The message has been
adopted around the world, as a way of showing solidarity with the victims of the
Charlie Hebdo massacre.

The Simpsons animators are the latest in a long line of cartoonists to respond
to the tragedy through their artwork . Cartoons supporting the victims and
reflecting the idea that the pen is mightier than the sword have been widely
shared online since the attack last week.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 5:34 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo attacks: Pope Francis condemns 'fundamentalist terrorism';
Pope attacks "deviant forms of religion" following Paris Charlie Hebdo attack

BYLINE: By Nick Squires Rome

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 627 words


Pope Francis condemned "fundamentalist terrorism" and "deviant forms of
religion" for last week's terrorist attacks in Paris, amid fresh claims that he
himself may be at risk of attack from the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant
(Isil).

The Pope said religion was being perverted by extremists and used to justify
evil, including "the tragic slayings" of 17 people that took place in Paris last
week after Islamist extremists attacked the office of the satirical magazine
Charlie Hebdo and took people hostage in a kosher supermarket.

"Religious fundamentalism, even before it eliminates human beings by
perpetrating horrendous killings, eliminates God himself, turning him into a
mere ideological pretext," the 78-year-old pontiff said in an annual address to
foreign diplomats accredited to the Vatican.

"Losing their freedom, people become enslaved, whether to the latest fads, or to
power, money, or even deviant forms of religion," he said in his State of the
World speech.

He spoke out against the menace posed by Islamic fundamentalism after an Israeli
television channel reported that the Vatican could be Isil's next target.

Channel 1 said American intelligence officials had warned the Holy See of the
possibility of an attack.

In a separate claim, Bild am Sonntag, a German newspaper, reported that
telephone conversations between Isil leaders, intercepted by the US National
Security Agency, indicated that four units of "commando" terrorists were
preparing to infiltrate Europe by mixing with boatloads of refugees.

Italian and Vatican authorities downplayed the reports, saying they had received
no concrete information about an imminent attack against either the Pope or the
Vatican.

"There do not seem to be indications of a specific risk," said Federico
Lombardi, the Vatican spokesman.

Angelino Alfano, the deputy prime minister and interior minister, said that
while Italy and the Vatican were not at "zero risk", no specific intelligence
had been passed on by the US or any other ally.

"What is evident, however, is that the Vatican has been named several times,
unfortunately, by the caliphate (of the Islamic State)," he said.

In slickly-produced propaganda videos posted online, Isil has declared its
ambition to "conquer Rome" and to see the black flag of the Islamic caliphate
flying from the top of St Peter's Basilica.

Security was stepped up for the Pope's address on Sunday and on Monday at least
seven police vehicles were positioned in St Peter's Square, a greater number
than usual.

The Pope blamed "the spread of fundamentalist terrorism in Syria and in Iraq"
for much of the violence tearing apart the Middle East, saying that it had
"chilling repercussions" such as the massacre of civilians and the persecution
of Christians and other minorities.

He appealed to the international community to act on behalf of the minorities
being hounded by Isil.

"A Middle East without Christians would be a marred and mutilated Middle East,"
he said.

Reiterating comments he made during a visit to Turkey in November, he said he
looked to Muslim leaders to condemn violence being perpetrated around the world
in the name of Islam.

"I express my hope that religious, political and intellectual leaders,
especially those of the Muslim community, will condemn all fundamentalist and
extremist interpretations of religion which attempt to justify such acts of
violence," he told the diplomats.

The leader of the Roman Catholic Church also denounced the "abominable"
kidnapping and enslavement of school girls by Boko Haram militants in northern
Nigeria and the slaughter of "unspeakable brutality" of more than 100 children
by the Taliban in Pakistan.

Later on Monday he was due to travel to Sri Lanka, for a week-long trip which
will also include the Philippines.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 3:38 PM GMT

'Did the Americans plan the Paris terror attacks?' asks leading Russian tabloid;

Front page of Komsomolskaya Pravda carries latest bizarre conspiracy theory put
forward in Russian press

BYLINE: By Roland Oliphant Moscow

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 660 words


American intelligence services carried out the Charlie Hebdo terror attack to
punish France for considering dropping sanctions against Russia - or at least,
that's the version of events presented in one of Russia's leading newspapers
today.

The front page splash in Komsomolskaya Pravda, which asks "Did the Americans
Plan the Paris Terror Attack?", is just the latest of a series of bizarre
conspiracy theories put forward by some of the Russian press in the wake of last
week's tragedy.

The headline relates to a page 7 interview with a political scientist called
Alexander Zhilin, who links the murders of 16 people at Charlie Hebdo and a
Kosher supermarket to disagreements between western governments about how to
deal with sanctions against Russia.

The trigger, he claimed, was Francois Hollande's suggestion on January 5 that
sanctions imposed against Russia should be reconsidered.

Such dissent in the ranks, Mr Zhilin suggests, could not be tolerated by the
shadowy warmongers who run the United States.

"This was not in Washington's plans, which decided to use European resources to
attack Russia," he says. "[To respond to this they used] Terror. It is cheap and
effective." Mr Zhilin goes on to claim that Angela Merkel toughened her stance
against Russia only after an explosion at a chemical factory in September, which
he insinuates was also the work of American spies.

Mr Zhilin's views are not challenged by his interviewer, but treated as a
straight analysis of the attacks.

Europe and the United States have imposed a range of sanctions against Russia in
retaliation for its annexation of Crimea and support for an ongoing secessionist
insurgency in eastern Ukraine.

While the conspiracy theory may sound bizarre, Komsomolskaya Pravda is not the
first influential Russian outlet to tie the United States to the Paris attack.

On the day after the Charlie Hebdo attack Life News, a fiercely pro-Kremlin
website and TV station, carried an interview with an "expert" called Alexei
Martyunov, who also blamed the attacks on "American special services."

Anti-American conspiracy theories have become a staple of pro-Kremlin media
since the February revolution in Ukraine and Russia's subsequent annexation of
Crimea sent relations between Moscow and Washington into a nose-dive.

Pundits have also blamed the CIA for organising the "coup" against Viktor
Yanukovych, the former Ukrainian president, and accused the United States of
conspiring with Saudi Arabia to collapse world oil prices in order to weaken
Russia.

While the overwhelming response to the Paris attacks has been an outpouring of
sympathy, some in Russia have suggested the incident has exposed a fundamental
cultural gap between Europe and Russia, where they suggest respect for religion
trumps the right to freedom of speech.

Komsomolskaya Pravda's special correspondent in Paris wrote in a dispatch about
arguing with "liberal French friends" over the cartoons during Sunday's unity
march.

Meanwhile Ramzan Kadyrov, the strongman president of Chechnya, took to Instagram
to say "no one should be allowed" to insult the prophet in the way Charlie Hebdo
did.

Most public figures and media, however, have been united in unequivocal
condemnation of the attacks - regardless of their political sympathies.

Novaya Gazeta, a liberal opposition paper, ran a front page with "We are Charlie
Hebdo". Meanwhile, the editorial team of Echo of Moscow, a leading radio
station, posed in "Je Suis Charlie" T-shirts.

And usually hawkish, anti-Western figures have joined in calls for unity.

Alexei Pushkov, a vociferous critic of the West who chairs the parliamentary
foreign affairs committee, wrote on Twitter that the attack proved the "real
threat" to Europe came from terrorists, not from Russia.

Margarita Simonyan, the editor of Kremlin-sponsored television station RT,
tweeted that Russia and the West would be "on the same side of the barricade"
when World War Three breaks out. Such war is, she said, imminent.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 12:18 PM GMT

Paris attacks: British counter-terrorism officers to re-enact Charlie Hebdo
massacre;
British police and security chiefs to rehearse 'specific elements' of Paris
attack in counter-terrorism drills

BYLINE: By Matthew Holehouse Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 629 words


British police and military will re-enact the Paris attack in a series of
counter-terrorism drills, Downing Street announced this morning.

Counter-terrorism officers will replicate "specific elements of the Paris
attack" in rehearsals for a terrorist outrage in Britain, Number 10 said.

The Prime Minister this morning met security, intelligence and policing chiefs
to assess the risk to Britain of an attack similar to that against Charlie
Hebdo.

Mr Cameron ordered the police and Armed Forces to co-operate closely "to ensure
that the police can call on appropriate military assistance when required".

He also demanded a "crackdown" on the illegal smuggling of weapons into Britain,
amid mounting fears of fighters from Iraq and Syria attempting to mount a
"marauding" attack using machine guns slipped into the UK.

The terrorist threat level in the UK is listed as 'severe', meaning an attack is
regarded as "highly likely".

The greatest threat is deemed to be from British jihadists who have received
training and indoctrination in Iraq and Syria.

The meeting was also expected to discuss plans to increase surveillance powers
over terrorism suspects. Mr Cameron yesterday said he wanted "more
comprehensive" powers to counter the threat from "this fanatical death cult of
Islamist extremist violence".

A briefing was given on the latest intelligence of threats to the UK. It was
reported yesterday that up to 150 jihadists could carry out a gun attack similar
to the Paris atrocities, including 30 that are under MI5 surveillance.

A Downing Street spokesman said: "The Prime Minister held a security meeting in
Downing Street this morning to review the Paris attacks and the risks to the UK
of a similar attack.

"Following an intelligence update, they discussed the UK's preparedness for
similar incidents. The relevant police and agencies regularly carry out
exercises to test their response to a terror attack, including scenarios similar
to the incidents in Paris.

"The meeting agreed that for future exercises, the relevant agencies should
identify whether there are any further specific elements of the Paris attack
that should be built into the exercise scenarios.

"The Prime Minister also asked the police and military to continue to work
closely together to ensure that the police can call on appropriate military
assistance when required across the country.

"They also discussed the risk posed by firearms, agreeing that our existing
tough firearms laws are a very important part of the protections we have and
that we should step up our efforts with other countries to crackdown on the
illegal smuggling of weapons across borders."

After the meeting, Mr Cameron wrote on Twitter: "I've had a full briefing from
security chiefs. We discussed ensuring the UK is properly protected from the
terrorist threat."

Professor Michael Clarke, director-general of defence think-tank the Royal
United Services Institute (Rusi), warned that Paris-style attacks are "likely to
increase".

He said the incidents in France were a "more directed version" of the relatively
unsophisticated plots that security agencies were battling.

"The jihadists are great creatures of fashion," he said. "The fashion at the
moment is for what the police call marauding attacks, not terribly
well-organised attacks but attacks which just take weapons and kill as many as
they can in public places."

He told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme: "So this fashion at the moment, not so
much to attack aircraft and airports but to go for these marauding attacks, is
likely to increase.

"Quite a lot of what's happening in the Middle East and Syria with Isis is
likely to increase that motivation."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 12:13 PM GMT

Je Suis Charlie: Stars show support for Charlie Hebdo at Golden Globes;
George Clooney and Helen Mirren were among actors at the 2015 Golden Globes who
showed support for #JeSuisCharlie following the Paris terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Charlotte Krol and AFP, video by Keely Lockhart

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 157 words


Hollywood's A-listers hit the Golden Globes red carpet on Sunday in plenty of
bling and sequins, but several stars also took a more sober approach by showing
support for the victims of terror attacks in Paris .

George and Amal Clooney                     , Helen Mirren, Kathy Bates and
Diane Kruger were among those who brandished signs or wore pins reading "Je Suis
Charlie."

"Today was an extraordinary day," Clooney said of the rallies during his
acceptance speech for an honorary award. "They marched in support of the idea
that we will not walk in fear."

In Europe, one of the biggest rallies was in Berlin, where around 18,000 people
marched wearing shirts saying "Checkpoint Charlie Hebdo" - a reference to the
Cold War-era Checkpoint Charlie in the once-divided German city.

The march comes days after Germany's new anti-Islamic Pegida movement drew
35,000 people into the streets of Dresden.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 12:01 AM GMT

Orhan Pamuk: In Turkey, we watch and wait;
The Nobel prize-winning novelist on the terror attacks in France and why we all
have a duty to defend freedom of speech

BYLINE: Orhan Pamuk

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 387 words


My first impulse is not to analyse or understand the motivations of the men who
attacked Charlie Hebdo. The news from Paris initially brought me immense
frustration and sadness, because this attack is a blow to those people who, like
me, believe that Muslims can live in peace alongside Christians in Europe. This
attack is an attempt to kill the hope of it.

Many of my friends have worked at satirical Turkish magazines and so I was
introduced to Hara-Kiri, Georges Bernier and François Cavanna's earlier
magazine, and later read Charlie Hebdo. In countries where free speech is under
threat you find a strong tradition of satirical magazines, many of which are
bought by young readers. In my country, where only recently Twitter and YouTube
were banned, these magazines are always under pressure. Nothing on the scale of
what happened at Hebdo has happened here, but many in Turkey share the anger and
frustration of the French.

Silencing the opposition, or free speech, by terror, killings or by law has a
long, sad history in my part of the world. One of my earlier books The Black
Book, published in Istanbul in 1990, tells the story of the killing of a
newspaper columnist who wrote subversive articles. Unfortunately freedom of
expression has fallen to a very low level in Turkey.

It's not just writers who have the responsibility to defend free speech. We all
have that responsibility - to communicate our culture and the worlds in which we
live. We must stand up and defend free speech, no matter what. It would be a
great mistake to link the French author Michel Houellebecq's latest novel, about
Muslim rule in an imaginary France in 2022, with this event. Of course we should
defend the right of Houellebecq to express himself but it is obvious to me that
the issues are separate and that the animosity towards Hebdo has a long
tradition.

We must remember the horrendous act that has taken place, the lives that were
lost, and stand firm against this destruction of free speech, this attack on
human creativity and, I must emphasise, on human dignity. Tension has been
building: this attack has coincided with a rise in Islamophobia in Europe. I am
sure Europe will be careful not to fall into the trap of directing its anger at
all Muslims. I hope these brutal attacks do not escalate. I am worried that they
might.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 12, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Orhan Pamuk In Turkey, we watch and wait;
The Nobel prize-winning novelist on the terror attacks in France

SECTION: T2;NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 397 words


My first impulse is not to analyse or understand the motivations of the men who
attacked Charlie Hebdo. The news from Paris initially brought me immense
frustration and sadness, because this attack is a blow to those people who, like
me, believe that Muslims can live in peace alongside Christians in Europe. This
attack is an attempt to kill the hope of it.

Many of my friends have worked at satirical Turkish magazines and so I was
introduced to Hara-Kiri, Georges Bernier and François Cavanna's earlier
magazine, and later read Charlie Hebdo. In countries where free speech is under
threat you find a strong tradition of satirical magazines, many of which are
bought by young readers. In my country, where only recently Twitter and YouTube
were banned, these magazines are always under pressure. Nothing on the scale of
what happened at Hebdo has happened here, but many in Turkey share the anger and
frustration of the French.

Silencing the opposition, or free speech, by terror, killings or by law has a
long, sad history in my part of the world. One of my earlier books The Black
Book, published in Istanbul in 1990, tells the story of the killing of a
newspaper columnist who wrote subversive articles.

Unfortunately freedom of expression has fallen to a very low level in Turkey.

It's not just writers who have the responsibility to defend free speech. We all
have that responsibility - to communicate our culture and the worlds in which we
live. We must stand up and defend free speech, no matter what. It would be a
great mistake to link the French author Michel Houellebecq's latest novel, about
Muslim rule in an imaginary France in 2022, with this event. Of course we should
defend the right of Houellebecq to express himself but it is obvious to me that
the issues are separate and that the animosity towards Hebdo has a long
tradition.

We must remember the horrendous act that has taken place, the lives that were
lost, and stand firm against this destruction of free speech, this attack on
human creativity and, I must emphasise, on human dignity. Tension has been
building: this attack has coincided with a rise in Islamophobia in Europe. I am
sure Europe will be careful not to fall into the trap of directing its anger at
all Muslims. I hope these brutal attacks do not escalate. I am worried that they
might.

I hope these attacks do not escalate - I'm worried they might

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 12, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attacks have short-lived impact

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 140 words


The terrorist attacks in France are expected to have a short-term impact on the
country's already stagnant economy, hitting sectors such as tourism, but will
have little long-term effect, according to American academics who compared the
Paris shootings to the 9/11 atrocity in New York, which triggered an immediate
loss of investor confidence as US airspace was closed.

Todd Sandler, an economics professor at the University of Texas, told the
International Business Times: "Business confidence is really not affected when
an attack occurs in a wealthy country." A short-term drop in tourism can be
quickly offset, for example, by extra spending on defence and security.

France is suffering from eurozone deflation and all eyes are on the European
Central Bank's meeting on January 22, which could signal the start of full
quantitative easing.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                      January 12, 2015 Monday 12:37 PM GMT

Crime commissioner warns French terror attacks will add pressure to police while
budgets are slashed;
North Wales Police and Crime Commissioner Winston Roddick says challenges are
growing at a time of "severe cutbacks"

BYLINE: By Darren Devine

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 472 words


A Welsh crime commissioner has warned the terror attacks in France will pile
fresh pressure on police at a time of austerity.

North Wales Police and Crime Commissioner Winston Roddick said the massacre of
17 people in Paris is an illustration of how quickly policing priorities can
change.

Other challenges facing the police include child exploitation and the growing
menace of cyber crime, he says.

North Wales Police has earmarked cuts of £4.3m during this financial year and a
further £3.5m in 2015/16.

Mr Roddick warned there were further tough times ahead and financial planning
could be blown off course by events that created additional priorities.

He said: "This last year, we have seen significant increases in terrorist
related offences, child sexual exploitation and cyber-crime to mention some of
the serious crimes which are becoming more frequent and which are adding
significantly to the challenges confronting modern policing and to the financial
pressure on the police service at a time when it is suffering severe cut-backs.

"The recent shooting of innocent members of the public and police officers at
the offices of the Charlie Hebdo satirical magazine in Paris and the dreadful
sieges which followed this are examples of the range of new and increasing
demands on our police forces and how priorities can change so rapidly.

"Not so long ago, we also had the cold-blooded murder of a soldier, Lee Rigby,
on the streets of London which also had to be dealt with by the police.

"The UK's threat level is rated as 'severe' which means that an attack is rated
highly likely by the security forces. Global terrorism is seamless.

"As MI5's former director of counter terrorism said in a national newspaper, the
ideologies which drive the terrorists are promoted in such a way that reaches
into the heart of vulnerable communities, wherever they may be."

Mr Roddick said his "over-riding objective" is security at home and safety in
public places.

He added: "This has never been more important than it is in the light of what is
happening internationally at the moment.

"The Roman philosopher Cicero said many hundreds of years ago, `Let the security
of the people be the highest law'. That statement has become the policing
imperative of our time."

The Commissioner also cited the cyber attack on the Sony Pictures company in
connection with the film The Interview in the United States and underlined his
concern over under-pressure police forces having the resources to cope with
these new demands

He said: "North Wales Police, in common with forces across the rest of the UK,
have to respond to these new demands by reviewing policing priorities and by
applying as much of their diminishing resources to them as they can.

"I am concerned that they are having to do so at a time when they are faced with
making substantial cutbacks."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            January 12, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Vigil in Welsh capital for victims of Paris terror attacks

BYLINE: Carys Lewis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1144 words


ON a day which saw an unprecedented two million people take to the streets of
Paris, Wales too held its on vigil to remember those who lost their lives in the
Charlie Hebdo terrorist attack and subsequent supermarket siege.

Hundreds of people of different nationalities and religions took to the steps of
the Senedd in Cardiff Bay not only to pay tribute to the 17 victims who lost
their lives during three days of terror, but to stand united against terrorism
and for freedom.

The event was organised by French expat Leila Gouret, 22, originally from
Rennes, who came to live in Cardiff two years ago to study business management
at Cardiff University. Set up on Facebook, the event quickly gathered huge
support, and yesterday evening's peaceful rally was joined by members of the
public as well as key figures including First Minister Carwyn Jones, the
Secretary of State for Wales Stephen Crabb, chair of the Muslim Council of Wales
Dr Saleem Kidwai, Rabbi Michoel Rose from Cardiff United Synagogue, South Wales
Police Commissioner Alun Michael, the Lord Mayor of Cardiff, AMs and city
councillors. Miss Gouret told the crowds, who braved the cold and threat of rain
to fill the steps of the Senedd: "When I created this event I didn't expect such
a response and I'm so pleased we can gather so many religions, countries and
nationalities to support the same idea of freedom and solidarity."

After an address by Marie Brousseau-Navarro, Honorary Consul of France in
Cardiff who also helped organise the event, vigil-goers were invited to light
their candles for a minute's silence to remember the victims of the attacks,
before they erupted into a huge round of applause lasting more than a minute to
"celebrate the victims and in the name of free speech".

As the Welsh flag flew at half-mast many holding "Je Suis Charlie" signs could
be seen fighting back tears as emotions ran high at the event.

In an impassioned speech, Dr Kidwai condemned the attacks and the killers,
categorically stating they have nothing to do with Islam.

Greeting the crowd with the traditional Muslim greeting, As-salamu alaykum, he
told them it was with "peace and blessing we greet you".

To spontaneous rounds of applause, he said: "Contrary to what was said by the
killers, it is not the Prophet who was avenged. It was our religion, values and
Islamic principles which were dented and affected by this.

"My condemnation [of the criminals] is absolute." He added: "My prayers and
sincere condolences for the families of the victims. But there is one light -
that the policeman that was killed was a Muslim. The man who saved many lives in
the supermarket was a Muslim. These are the people we should appreciate and
value."

"Islam needs peace," he continued." Our prophet, during his lifetime, suffered a
lot of hardship but he never condoned violence. Never did he preach violence.

"What is important now is to stand together, united shoulder to shoulder.

"We can stand together to share our values, our care and love for each other,
and make sure that they don't succeed in what they want to do.

"We will eventually win because truth always wins over false and light over
darkness."

Rounding up the event, Ms Brousseau-Navarro thanked all who supported the vigil
on behalf of her country.

She added: "The support of the people of Wales, the UK and so many other
countries is overwhelming and we are very, very grateful.

"I would particularly like to thank Mademoiselle Leila Gouret for having
initiated this event so that we can all stand her united in our shock and
sorrow... united in condemning these barbaric attacks and united with all the
people who have marched today across the world."

As scores of pens and pencils were then raised in defiance, Ms Brousseau-Navarro
told the crowd, "We are all Charlie."

Miss Gouret said: "It was moving seeing people with tears in their eyes" Among
those who attended the vigil were a couple from Bridgend, who said they refused
to be silenced by terrorists.

The couple, who did not want to be named, said: "Terrorism has got to stop and
this is an important show of solidarity.

"Our generation was brought up with Spitting Image and Monty Python, all these
programmes which poked fun at everything and it's important that we have the
right to do so and it be taken in the humour it's intended.

"It's really quite frightening, we've been to Paris five times and we love it
there, and we cant' give in to them and stop going places because of these
fanatics.

"We stopped going to London for a few years after the Hyde Park bombings, and in
a sense we regret that now because these people shouldn't stop us or anyone else
living our lives because of fear."

Seventeen-year-old Ella Skinner, from Penarth, said she felt compelled to join
the demonstration, adding: "Words are stronger than weapons. We need to come
together to make sure our words are not silenced," while french citizens also
made up a large percentage of the attendees.

Aurore Kessai, 22, from Paris, said: "I have lived in Cardiff one year. It is
really good people from other countries care what happened." Pierre Lecomte 23,
from Bordeaux, added: "It is good to be together. I am shocked at what happened
in France."

Johanna Poupon from Bridgend, said it was her French heritage that drive her to
attend.

She said: "Most of my family live in Paris, so I was obviously really worried as
the events unfolded. I wanted to do something, and no matter how small it may
seem, together we make a significant impact.

Carrying her Brittany flag, the 38 year old added: "I think there's a bit of
negativity about what can be achieved by marches etc, but I think a lot can be
achieved by a peaceful display of unity.

"The whole events has been very emotional and the speeches were very inspiring -
no-one was trying to stir anything up, it was simply about standing united."

Ramesh Patel and Dilwar Ali, both Muslim councillors representing Cardiff wards,
made it clear the attacks had nothing to do with religion.

"It's not about religion," said Mr Patel. "These people who commit these crimes
are murderers. That's all they are and that's something that's free of religion.

"It's the same as the IRA - people don't say 'they are Catholics'; they say they
are murderers.

"These crimes are deplorable."

Mr Ali, who attended with his family including his children aged 10 and 15, said
it was important that even younger generations were made aware that those
claiming to be acting in the name of religion were not true believers.

And Rabbi Michoel Rose said the event's turnout showed the strength of feeling
throughout the world.

He said: "They came to show solidarity and it shows that at the end of the day,
[despite the terrorists'] violence and hatred, the power of good is so much
greater.

"It is a battle of ideals - it's not a battle of guns.

"It's our ideals against their [terrorists] ideals, and we will win."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: First Minister Carwyn Jones joined hundreds of people in a silent rally
in <B Cardiff yesterday honouring the victims of the Paris terrorist
attacksMembers of the public in London's Trafalgar Square yesterday in support
<Bof the victims of recent terrorist attacks in France Stefan RousseauPeter
BolterThe National Gallery in London's Trafalgar Square is <Billuminated with
the colours of the French Tricolore flag

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Wimbledon Guardian

                            January 12, 2015 Monday

Merton unites to show solidarity with Paris after terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Louisa Clarence-Smith

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 326 words


Politicians put their differences aside on Friday night to show their solidarity
with Paris after a spate of horrific terrorist attacks.

Parliamentary candidates for Mitcham and Morden, UKIP's Richard Hilton, Tory
candidate Paul Holmes and Labour MP Siobhain McDonagh joined residents outside
Merton Civic Centre for a peace vigil.

With Merton's union jack at half mast as a mark of respect for the 17 people
shot dead last week, the small crowd lit candles, laid flowers and held signs
proclaiming 'I am Charlie'.

The vigil was organised by Mr Hilton, who said he was contacted by a number of
residents who said they wanted an opportunity to show their solidarity with
Paris.

Mr Holmes said: "We stand united with Paris and tonight in Morden we have shown
that no matter how many times people try to stop free speech, it will not work.

"As a democrat I am pleased to stand together with fellow candidates and
residents and present a united message. Terrorism will not win."

Seventeen people were killed last week in shootings at the offices of satirical
magazine Charlie Hebdo, in a kosher supermarket and on a street in the south of
Paris.

The dramatic events ended on Friday after armed police stormed the supermarket
and printing offices where gunmen were holding hostages and killed the suspected
terrorists.

Merton's Muslim community has also condemned the attacks, which were carried out
in the name of Islam.

Speaking at a sermon on Friday, His Holiness Hazrat Mirza Masroor Ahmad, world
leader of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, condemned the attacks which he said
bore no relation to "the true teachings of Islam".

He said: "Nowhere does Islam permit taking the law into one's own hands or to
injure or murder anyone.

"Yet these so-called Muslims and Muslim groups still do not abstain from such
cruelties and atrocities."

Yesterday world leaders were among over a million people who marched through
Paris to defend the values of liberty, democracy and equality.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

Around 3,000 demonstrate in Stockholm in support of French terror attack weekly

LENGTH: 955 words


Text of report in English by Swedish English-language news website The Local on
11 January

[Report by staff/Maddy Savage: "Stockholm Charlie [Hebdo] Rally Was 'Record' for
Winter Protest"]

Around 3,000 people gathered in Stockholm's main square on Sunday [11 January]
in -2oC [28.4oF] in solidarity with Charlie Hebdo, the French satirical magazine
attacked in Paris this week, with police saying they could not remember a
gathering so large during winter in the city, as The Local's Maddy Savage
reports.

Braving sleet, snow and below-freezing temperatures, Swedes joined Stockholm's
French community and other international expats in Sergels torg, one of the
city's historic squares, which has hosted numerous demonstrations in recent
decades.

The Demonstration for Freedom of Expression and the Press was arranged by
campaign group Reporters Without Borders and the Association of Swedish
Illustrators.

Many demonstrators brought along pens and pencils and held them in the air as
they remembered the Charlie Hebdo cartoonists who died in Paris on Wednesday.
French, Swedish, Spanish, Brazilian, Iranian and Turkish flags were spotted in
the crowd.

Jonathan Lundqvist, Chairman of Reporters Without Borders, said he was "really
happy" with the turnout, which far exceeded what either he or the police had
been anticipating, despite 4,000 people joining a Facebook group for the rally.

"Even though the weather was quite terrible, the Swedish public showed enormous
support for freedom of speech by showing up. According to the police, it's some
kind of record for this time of year. Usually they only see that kind of
attendance in the summer."

Starting at 1.30 p.m. [1230 gmt], there was first a quiet memorial for the 17
people killed in the Charlie Hebdo attack and its aftermath. French people
living in Stockholm were invited to gather around a large French flag, while
others lit candles.

A series of speeches took place from 2 p.m. [1300 gmt], with Thomas Mattsson,
editor of Sweden's Expressen tabloid, one of the first on the podium.

"Freedom of speech is truly a must," he told the crowd. "We stand here not only
in mourning but in defiance."

His words were followed by Jacques Lapouge, France's ambassador to Sweden, who
spoke in English to thank Sweden for offering support to his home country.

"It is in these moments that you learn what friendship is," he said.

The rally ended with a speech from Martin Schibbye, the Swedish journalist who
spent 438 days in prison in Ethiopia in 2011 and 2012.

Among those in the crowd were Swedish-French couple Karin and Felix La Fleurey
and their daughter Iris, who is nine.

"It has been a tough week being abroad and seeing how my home country has been
suffering and I have felt a bit useless," Felix told The Local.

"We thought that France was a peaceful country and now we have to be extremely
careful in the future - to make sure that religion brings love and not
divisions. We are Christians but we support our Jewish friends and our Muslim
ones."

"Freedom of speech isn't something we should just take. It is something we have
to give as well, as one of the speakers here said," added his Swedish wife
Karin.

"It is very important to teach our children that we should all be united. We
have been talking about this with our Iris."

"Yes and I really don't like it," added the nine-year-old.

Berenice Mertens, 23, who is a French nanny working in Stockholm, told The Local
that the attacks in Paris had taken place on her birthday.

"It was a total shock - just a horrible, horrible day. Now I am here at this
rally," she said, holding up a pen.

Ahead of the rally there was some criticism from members of the French community
in Sweden who said they felt that the rally was set to become too political.

"The organizers should not feel proud. It was not the event that the moment
needed or asked for (. . .) The relevance of the big media was zero (. . .) Why
would Charlie Hebdo even exist if major media the world over did its job for
real?" wrote one critic, John Manoochehri, on Facebook.

"The event and its speakers reveal Sweden's own discomfort and inability to deal
with the issues Charlie Hebdo is confronting. Speeches and fund-raising for
[Reporters Without Borders] at a memorial? No organized Charlie banners,
promotion, fund-raising by the organizers? Shameful," he added. [quotation as
received]

The decision to schedule 30 minutes without speeches at the start of the rally
followed the criticism.

"French people had a need for mourning that was not clearly understood by
Reporters Without Borders, and we were surprised by their super-agenda," wrote
one of the administrators for the event's Facebook page.

"We can blame the lack of time and coordination," she added.

French Stockholmers previously gathered outside the French Embassy on Wednesday
night, hours after the terror attack in Paris.

Sunday's protest passed peacefully, despite some concerns that it could be
hijacked by far-right anti-Islamic protestors. While Reporters Without Borders
said ahead of the rally that it hoped that ordinary Muslims would feel welcome
at the rally, there were few visible banners from Islamic groups in the square.

Wahid Abar, who is originally from Iran, told The Local: "My parents were
Muslims but we were secular and now I don't consider myself a Muslim. I am
against Islam as a political ideology - following shari'ah law or discriminating
against different people because of their religion. They are a kind of fascist
(. . .) like the Nazis."

"It's very good to see so many people here. Many people in Sweden support peace
and they have come together to show solidarity for freedom of speech and other
freedoms," he said.

Source: The Local website, Stockholm, in English 1239 gmt 11 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

Norwegian Islamic cultural centre steps up security after Paris terror attack

LENGTH: 209 words


Text of report by Norwegian newspaper Aftenposten on 10 January

[NTB report: "Mosque in Oslo Tightens Security After Paris Terror"]

The mosque the Islamic Cultural Centre in Gronland in Oslo is tightening
security following the terror attack in Paris.

The mosque has hired security guards because several of the mosque's users fear
for security, the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation reports.

"We have resorted to the procurement of security guards at the mosque following
feedback from the users that we should strengthen the guarding. The fact that we
have guards at the mosque gives us an extra feeling of security," says the
chairman of the board of governors at the Islamic Cultural Centre, Najam Farhan.

The mosque has not received any direct threat but wishes to practice prevention.

Security is being tightened following the terror attack on the satirical
magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris.

"In Sweden one hears that mosques are being exposed to attacks and criminal
damage. The users' security is important to us and in that case it is better
that we have visible guards in uniform than that we have voluntary guards from
the mosque. It gives rise to a feeling that someone is looking out," says
Farhan.

Source: Aftenposten, Oslo, in Norwegian 10 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

Turkish paper views Paris march, causes of terrorism, Syria link to attack

LENGTH: 943 words


Text of report by Turkish newspaper Milliyet website on 13 January

[Commentary by Asli Altintasbas: "We Share the Same Fate"]

Europe as well as the Middle East was there. The Jewish community marched
together with Muslims. Netanyahu as well as Hizballah leader Nasrallah condemned
terrorism.

The world did not leave France alone in its time of difficulty.

In the solemn march in Paris yesterday, we were all united against the radical
and nihilistic mindset represented by Al-Qa'idah and ISIL.

Why? Because we can now gradually see that we are all on the same boat.

We are the people who believe in democracy, who want to live in a peaceful
public order, who care about identities and freedoms, and who express any
objections we may have against the system through democratic channels and by
organizing, writing, talking, or political activity.

No doubt, we all want the world to change. We want it to be more just and to
share more fairly.

We speak different languages, belong to different religions, and lead different
lives. We strive to make the countries in which more democratic. However, we do
not do this by overturning the table, smashing the system, setting the house on
fire, or shooting and beheading people.

This is why the millions who were in the streets of Paris yesterday with
placards of "#JeSuisCharlie" were saying: "We are one and we are not afraid."

As I wrote this article, my mind inevitably drifted to MIT [National
Intelligence Organization] Undersecretary Hakan Fidan's warning last week about
the possibility of terrorist attacks in Turkey. ISIL and its ideology, spread in
an area next to hundreds of kilometres of our southern border, will apparently
cause us much headache in the coming period.

In another corner of my mind, I thought about the Salafi-linked woman who killed
a police officer in Sultanahmet last week and reports that the girlfriend of one
of the Paris assailants crossed into Syria through Urfa.

We are all on the same boat. In a strange way, a Muslim father who insists on
sending his daughter to school in defiance of Boko Haram in Nigeria and the
family that was shopping in a supermarket in the centre of Paris now realize
that they share the same fate.

This is why we are troubled and we protest.

Not All Alienated People Engage in Terrorism

Debates about Islamophobia on television screens have assumed laughable
proportions. Some commentators have been talking about the economic conditions
and alienation of Muslims in Europe and Israel's policies as if legitimizing
violence.

They are so uninformed. These commentators, who appear to be experts on every
subject, do not realize that jihadist terrorism is not just a problem of
alienation. For example, there is no Islamophobia against Muslims in Yemen. Yet,
the Yemen branch of Al-Qa'idah killed more than 45 people there in three
separate attacks last week. There is no question of alienating Muslims in
Pakistan but more than 150 children were killed in an attack on a school there
last month.

Professional global terror networks like Al-Qa'idah cannot be explained by
syndromes of "alienation" as romantic commentators on television screens
imagine. The notion that "a person who is angry or depressed becomes a
terrorist" is quite misleading. (If that was the case, someone would blow
himself up every day in places like Africa where people work for a dollar a
day.)

According to security experts, everything begins with organizing, organizations,
money, and hierarchies. Someone trains and finances you, others provide
logistical support and organize the attacks.

What Is Al-Qa'idah in Yemen?

The Al-Qa'idah in the Arabian Peninsula [AQAP], with which the brothers Cherif
and Said Kouachi were affiliated, is one of the most professional terrorist
organizations that have existed in the world. Because Usamah Bin-Ladin had roots
in Yemen, AQAP has a strong infrastructure in that country. At this point, it
controls certain regions of Yemen.

The presence of radical English-speaking imams (e.g. Anwar al-Awlaki who also
influenced the Kouachi brothers) in AQAP gives the organization a serious
advantage in organizing outside [Yemen].

However, this matter also has a Syria leg. AQAP has been active in Syria since
the start of the civil war there. It has sent droves of militants to northern
Syria (via Turkey) since 2012. The Yemeni group initially joined the Al Nusra
Front but it defected collectively to ISIL last year.

This may explain one of the biggest mysteries of the Paris attack. The Kouachi
brothers, who carried out the attack on Charlie Hebdo, reportedly disclosed that
they are Al-Qa'idah members. On the other hand, Amedy Coulibaly, the man who
attacked the Jewish supermarket, said that he did this to express support for
ISIL. According to security experts, Syria has brought the two organizational
together organically.

What Did Hayat Do in Istanbul?

You must have read in newspapers that Hayat Boumeddiene, Amedy Coulibaly's
girlfriend, visited Turkey just a short time before the Paris attacks. I learned
from a senior official yesterday that the 26-year-old woman came to Turkey on 2
January and initially stayed in a hotel [in Istanbul]. Then, Boumeddiene entered
the hotel with another North African man. This person might have been sent by
ISIL to escort the woman into Syria. [Boumeddiene] travelled from Istanbul to
Urfa on 4 January. Security agencies report that the young woman and the man
escorting him stayed [in Urfa] for a few days and contacted groups engaged in
human trafficking through the Syrian border. The woman subsequently crossed into
Syria in an area near Akcakale [Urfa].

Source: Milliyet website, Istanbul, in Turkish 13 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

Turkish paper views US government, media response to terror attacks in France

LENGTH: 1072 words


Text of report by Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman website on 12 January

[Commentary by Ali H. Aslan: "Obama Did Not Say, 'Je Suis Charlie'"]

The terrorism that showed its horrific and disgusting face in France prompted
outrage in America as it did in the rest of the world.

The massacre of the staff at the Charlie Hebdo periodical reignited the debates
over freedom of expression, security and racism. There is no doubt that these
sensational acts of violence are going to deal yet another blow to the image
Muslims have in America. Regardless, American state officials and the mainstream
media alike are generally acting responsibly. It is thanks to this that the
Muslims in the country are not having their peace and their security
jeopardized.

US President Barack Obama responded to the incident with his usual level headed
attitude. Condemning the attack with both a written statement and by talking to
journalists on Wednesday, the US President opposed "vision that was full of
hatred." Objections were made, particularly by certain outspoken right-wing
opponents, to the fact that he called the activists "terrorists" without adding
any other labels. They maintained that his reluctance to use the terms "Islamic"
or "Islamist" terrorist was a case of denial and wanting to keep the facts from
the people.

Since he took office the US leader has avoided descriptions that associate Islam
with violence as a matter of security and social responsibility. Influential in
this is his sensibility with respect to not giving offence to the world's
Muslims, not giving ammunition to radical groups and not putting the Muslim
minority in America in the crosshairs. The United States is a global power that
is active all over the world with its military, its traders, its cultural
ambassadors and other elements. This country's national interests demand that it
does not make an enemy out of the world's one billion plus Muslims, most of whom
live in strategic regions, unless it absolutely has to. For all these reasons
the White House prefers to use the term "violence extremism" for acts of
violence that it knows all too well are fuelled by certain fringe and fanatic
Islamic movements.

Balancing Freedom Of Expression

Following the attacks in Paris the Obama administration's adherence to freedom
of the press and freedom of expression was put to the test. In this context
Secretary of State John Kerry said, "Freedom of expression and a free press are
basic values." President Obama pointed out that the American and French peoples
have been defending "universal values" for many generations. However, they
refrained from taking their banner waving for freedom of expression to other
dimensions by saying, "Je suis Charlie."

Since the beginning the Obama administration has frowned on movements that
offend Muslims and incite radicals via the press. Former White House Spokesman
Jay Carney had criticized Charlie Hebdo's printing of ugly cartoons depicting
the Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) back in 2012. That same year President Obama said
this at the UN: "The future must not belong to those who smear the Prophet of
Islam. However, in order to be credible, the people who condemn that smearing
should also damn the hatred in the defiling of pictures of Christ or the
vandalism of churches or the denial of the Holocaust."

It is because of this constructive line he follows that the US President has
become the target of some radical opponents. In a survey held by Newsweek
magazine in 2010 52 per cent of Republicans said they believed either fully or
partly the allegations that Obama sympathized with fundamentalists and wanted to
introduce global Sharia rule. If that is how those people view Obama you can
image how they regard Muslims. According to a survey carried out by the Arab
American Institute (AAI) in 2014, only 27 per cent of the population regarded
American Muslims positively. The outrage and fear prompted by acts of terrorism
carried out supposedly in the name of Islam are largely to blame for these poor
figures. It is likely that the American state's security and intelligence
agencies use a lens to look at Muslims that has a higher magnification than the
lens used to look at others. However, they are careful not to point fingers in
official announcements.

Media Acting With Principles

In its lead commentary on Friday the Washington Post opposed the way the Western
media censored itself in the face of extremist threats and continued: "However,
responsible leaders need to take pains to stop the attacks being exploited by
right-wing populists that are trying to turn the Muslim population into
scapegoats, brand Islam and promote an anti-foreigner agenda." In accordance
with its principles of freedom of expression the Post also printed on its
commentary page the cartoon that led to the attack on Charlie Hebdo. Fox
Television News, known for its Islamophobia, showed one cartoon but it was not
repeated. Leading American publishers and broadcasters such as the New York
Times, the New York Daily News, the Associated Press, NPR, NBC, ABC, CBS and CNN
either did not show the cartoons or they pixilated them. Their reasoning: their
publishing principles prevent them from using offensive materials.

In short, following the attacks in France the American leaders and media for the
most part demonstrated a principled and rational attitude in terms of democracy
and ethics. They generally avoided agitating Islam and Muslims. The same is to
be expected of the European press, which is experiencing 9/11 syndrome and for
which the wounds are still very fresh.

As for the Islamic world: Voices that condemn confrontational and radical trends
should be louder. The reasons why a considerable number of Muslims fall into the
terrorism vortex and likely ways out should be discussed in a sincere and
academic fashion. It is too easy to blame foreign factors for the tragic state
that has become of Islamic civilization; too easy to invent conspiracy theories
for every event. This needs to be abandoned. The Koran and the Sunnah
continually encourage contemplation and self-reflection, and this needs to be
carried out far more often. Attempts to hollow out Islam and transform it into
an aggressive political ideology without understanding its soul should be left
fruitless. If not, we shall spend our entire lives trying to clean off the mud
that is being flung at us.

Source: Zaman website, Istanbul, in Turkish 12 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

German experts consider terror attacks possible "at any time"

LENGTH: 305 words


Excerpt from report by centrist weekly German news magazine Focus on 10 January

[Report by Goeran Schattauer: "Attack Possible at Any Time"]

[Passage omitted] If the murderous attack on the editorial offices of the
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo has shown one thing clearly it is this: the
perpetrators can hit at any time and everywhere.

Also in Germany.

Politicians and heads of security services like to keep quiet about how big the
risk in our country really is. For years they have been speaking officially of
an "abstract high danger of terror attacks."

Unofficially, in classified police files, the situation appears more alarming.
Focus has obtained an analysis by the Federal Office of Criminal Investigations
(BKA), which is entitled "Threat Potential of Islamist Terrorism" and is
constantly updated. In it, Constitutional Protection officials expressly cite
the editorial offices of German newspapers, magazines, and television stations
as potential targets of attacks.

The report says:

"Islam-critical events in Germany might provide an impetus for Islamist violence
against private individuals, (representatives of the) media, public security
authorities and their personnel all over the country."

This means: attacks like the one in Paris would also be conceivable in Germany -
and that "at any time," as the experts stress. The perpetrators want "the
highest number of victims possible and a maximum of damage to the infrastructure
and the economy" - "with as much attention from the media as possible." [passage
omitted]

Torsten Voss, head of the Hamburg Office for the Protection of the Constitution,
recently dared to make an alarming prediction. Germany must expect "a new kind
of terrorist acts." Acts with which individuals or very small groups achieve
"the worst."

Source: Focus, Munich, in German 10 Jan 15 pp 34, 35

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

Iranian editorial says Paris attacks result of Western "support of terrorism"

LENGTH: 1127 words


Text of unattributed editorial entitled: "You made your bed, now lie in it"
published  by hardline Iranian daily Jomhuri-ye Eslami website on 10 January

In the name of God, the compassionate, the merciful

The bloody attack by armed and masked gunmen on the offices of a satirical
weekly in Paris and the continuation of terrorist attacks in several areas of
this city, which lasted from Wednesday to Friday [7-9 January], serves as a
great lesson to the leaders of Western countries, and if they wish to learn
anything from this lesson, it would be to modify their course of management and
to free the people of these countries from the pain they suffer.

According to the news, after the publication of a caricature of Abu-Bakr
al-Baghdadi, the leader of Da'ish [Arabic acronym for the group calling itself
Islamic State, also known as IS/ISIS/ISIL] by a publication, several armed and
masked men attacked the magazine's offices in Paris, killing 12 people and
injuring others. The next day, in another part of Paris, armed and masked gunmen
carried out another terrorist attack, killing a member of the police, and
yesterday (Friday), they killed two other people during a hostage taking
incident. These actions were condemned by leaders of Islamic countries and
Muslim nations announced in various ways, including the use of social media that
such actions are not approved by Islam. Among these statements, the one by
Lebanon's Hezbollah attracts the most attention. Hezbollah has declared that
individuals who commit these kinds of actions are basically not Muslim. This
stance by Hezbollah is a crushing response to all the people who are trying to
distort the image of Islam by attributing terrorist and violent actions to
Muslims and to include the name of Lebanon's Hezbollah in the list of terrorist
groups. Now that the French government has been dealt a blow in the heart of
Paris and tourist groups nurtured by the West, including the French government,
have attacked their own benefactor, the leaders of this country have a good
opportunity to understand the reality that the flames of any fire raised by a
seditionist will burn the initiator first of all and accusing jihadist and
liberation seeking movements such as Lebanon's Hezbollah of terrorism, cannot
change this reality. Lebanon's Hezbollah was established with the aim of dealing
with terrorism and since its establishment, it has always stood against
terrorism, and on many occasions it has itself been a victim of terrorism. In
recent years, in addition to its continuous fight against the Zionist regime's
state terrorism, it has fought with takfiri [one who holds other Muslims to be
infidels] terrorists in Lebanon and Syria, and it is not prepared to stop its
fight on terrorism for a single second.

Just like the leaders of the United States and Britain, the French leaders are
also aware of these truths. They know that terrorism has been created and grown
by the West, and it has been used in various parts of the world, including the
Middle East, against Muslim nations for the sake of their own unlawful
interests. The leaders of the West's evil powers are using their facilities to
fight Muslims and to deal blows on Islam in four different fronts; the soft war
front, the support for terrorism front, the creating division among Muslims
front, and the Islamophobia propaganda front. Even though blows have been
inflicted on Muslims in these confrontations and Western leaders have in the
short term inched closer to their evil goals to a degree, these ploys will not
be successful in the long term and their negative consequences will revert back
to Western countries. Through the events that happen within the framework of the
growth of terrorist groups, people throughout the world, including Western
countries understand that what they have attributed to Islam are nothing but
lies and at the end of this saga, masks will be removed from the faces of
Islam's enemies and nations will welcome and turn to Islam more than any other
time. This auspicious event is currently happening. In recent days, even in
Europe, as a result of enlightenment provided by Muslims, the masks of many
Western government leaders have fallen to reveal numerous truths. Throughout the
past four years, despite the fact that French, British, and US governments have
wholeheartedly helped takfiri terrorists in Syria, Iraq, Yemen, and Libya, and
pitched them against Muslim nations, providing them with political, propaganda,
financial, and military support, destroying homes, hospitals, schools, mosques,
and other public and religious sites, made millions homeless, and killed
hundreds of thousands of people, everything has moved forward against the wishes
of these governments and of the West, and in favour of Islam and Muslims.

Western conferences to support terrorism, which were organized under the nice
cover of friendship with the Syrian people, failed disgracefully, and
conspiracies that were formed to break up Syria and Iraq, and to bring the
Yemeni people's revolution to defeat, were neutralized. Investments made to
bring Western pawns to power in regional countries were all squandered, and
ultimately, the same terrorism they had nurtured turned against themselves and
robbed them of all peaceful sleep. The main question now is whether French
leaders and governments that sponsor terrorism will realize the mistakes they
have committed in their calculations regarding the use of terrorism for the
fulfilment of their own evil objectives in Islamic countries? Even though the
answer to this question must be sought in how leaders of Western governments
will deal with takfiri terrorists in the future, our prediction is that they
will not learn a lesson from the developments in Paris and will continue their
support for them within the same framework of erroneous calculations. The big
problem with the Western leaders' belief is that they regard the materialist
theory of "the end justifies the means" as a fundamental principle, and they
always seek to ensure their evil interests on this same corrupt basis, and pay
no attention to its negative consequences. For this reason, all their claims of
human rights, pacifism, and seeking justice are false and these are tools to
deceive public opinion in order to take advantage of the latter to realize their
unlawful goals.

Consequently, while we Muslims condemn every unlawful act, similar to what has
happened in Paris, and believe these kinds of actions to be alien to the spirit
of Islam, we also say to French leaders: you are reaping what you have sown and
you will pay these costs as long as you remain unrepentant about your actions.
You made your bed, now lie in it.

Source: Jomhuri-ye Eslami website, Tehran, in Persian 10 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

Austrian Defence Ministry expert says likelihood of major terror attack "small"

LENGTH: 292 words


Text of report by Austrian newspaper Kurier on 13 January

[Unattributed report: "Security 2015: 'The Danger of Extremism Is Growing'"]

"It is very likely that the security situation can be expected to deteriorate,"
the "Security Policy Preview for 2015" by the Defence Ministry says. The
comprehensive critical analysis, which will be presented in Vienna today,
Tuesday, was drawn up under the leadership of Brigade General Johann Frank,
security policy director in the Defence Ministry, and with the participation of
internationally renowned experts.

Given the attacks in Paris, the development of international terrorism is
particularly topical. "We assume that non-conventional risks for Europe and also
for Austria will continue to increase," Brigade General Frank stresses.

The threat posed by jihadists has not been banished by far. "The euro-jihad
pursues the political-strategic goal of dividing the European societies and of
attracting additional radical fighters. This confrontation will be carried on in
Europe and in the Middle East," military expert rank emphasizes.

The danger that "a small percentage of Austrians or foreigners living in Austria
will be further radicalized" is an acute one. However, the likelihood of a major
terrorist attack is "small" at present. However, such an incident would
"probably overtax the capacities of the Austrian security forces (police)"

The analysis of the 2015 trends also deals with cyber crime. The central
statement: "The danger of extremism in all fields of society, that is, also in
the cyber area, is growing."

The report also shows that "the centrifugal forces within the EU are getting
stronger" (key words: Grexit, Brexit, and renationalization), Frank says.

Source: Kurier, Vienna, in German 13 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

Chechen convicted of terror attack dies in Russian prison from illness

LENGTH: 200 words


A Chechen convicted of causing an explosion at a McDonald's restaurant in Moscow
in 2002 has died in prison from an illness, privately-owned Russian news agency
Interfax reported on 13 January.

Akhyad Mezhiyev, who had also been convicted of colluding in other terrorist
offences in Moscow in the early 2000s, including the Nord Ost theatre siege in
which over a hundred hostages were killed, died in a penal institution in Kirov
Region, according to Irina Kolchina, the head of the Federal Penal Service's
press office.

"He died in a penal institution in Kirov Region from a progressive disease,
which had developed in a severe way," Kolchina said on 13 January.

"This disease does not fall under government regulation T54 according to which a
prisoner can be released from his place of captivity by a court order," she
said.

Kolchina said she did not have the right to reveal the exact date of Mezhiyev's
death, or his diagnosis, or say how long he had spent in Kirov Region.

Mezhiyev was sentenced to 18 years in prison in April 2004 for involvement in
terrorist offences, along with his brother Alikhan Mezhiyev, who was given 22
years.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1447 gmt 13 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     January 13, 2015 Tuesday 12:22 PM GMT

France terrorist attacks: funeral ceremonies in Paris and Jerusalem;
Three police officers and four Jewish civilians buried in moving ceremonies

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 316 words


Seven people killed in the Charlie Hebdo terrorist attack and its aftermath in
Paris - three police officers and four civilians - were buried today.

France paid homage to three police officers killed in the three days of
bloodshed and terror in Paris last week while the funerals of four civilians
were undertaken in Jerusalem in respect of their wishes.

The solemn ceremony in Paris was led by President Francois Holland  who went
first to the family of Ahmed Merabet, the French Muslim policeman killed in the
attack on the offices of Charlie Hebdo.

He said at the televised ceremony that the officers "died so that we may live in
freedom".

All three coffins of the officers who died, which included a female police
officer shot by the Kouachi brother's accomplices, were draped with France's
Tricolour flag.

The officers - Franck Brinsolaro, Ahmed Merabet and Clarissa Jean-Philippe -
were all posthumously bestowed with the country's high honour, the Legion
d'Honneur.

The bodies of the four civilians who were where shot in the a kosher supermarket
in France arrived earlier today in Isarel from a flight from France.

They were Yoav Hattab, Philippe Braham, Yohan Cohen and Francois-Michel Saada.

They were buried in the Har HaMenuhot cemetery in a televised ceremony led by
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who denounced the terrorists attacks
as motivated by hate.

Meanwhile, Charlie Hebdo was putting the final touches to its first magazine to
be printed since the attack as it prepared to print three million copies due to
worldwide demand.

The satirical newspaper lampooned religions and had been threatened repeatedly
for its caricatures of the Prophet Mohammed.

Seventeen people were killed in the Charlie Hebdo attacks, along with the three
gunmen - Said and Cherif Kouachi and Amedy Coulibaly.

His girlfriend and accomplice Hayat Boumeddiene is still on the run, believed to
be in Syria.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      January 13, 2015 Tuesday 6:31 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo terror attack: New video shows gunmen shooting at cops as they
made escape after massacre;
THE footage shows Said and Cherif Kouachi shouting their defiance and calmly
reloading their assault rifles before opening fire on a police car.

BYLINE: By Sam Webb

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 471 words


Shocking new footage of Charlie Hebdo gunmen's shootout with police

NEW video has emerged of the two gunmen on the streets of Paris as they
slaughtered 12 people at Charlie Hebdo last week.

The footage, apparently taken on a phone, shows the killer brothers Said and
Cherif Kouachi firing at police as they fled after the shootings at the
satirical magazine.

It also shows the masked men - who are believed to have had advanced military
training - calmly reloading their AK47 assault rifles and shouting their
defiance at the beginning of the video.

One is heard to scream: "We have avenged the Prophet Mohammed, we have killed
Charlie Hebdo."

They then drive a short distance in the black car but stop when their path is
blocked by a police car.

The terrorists jump out and fire on the officer, who reverses away in a bid to
escape the fusillade.

The pair then get back into the vehicle and follow the police car, with one of
the shooters hanging out of the window and firing while moving.

One of the people watching the scene is heard saying: "Hey, hey. The police are
running away."

Armed police shot dead the three terrorists behind the bloody spate of attacks
in France in a dramatic shoot-out at a factory and Jewish grocery store on
Friday.

The Kouachis were shot after reportedly emerging from their bolt hole at a
warehouse north-east of Paris firing at police.

Minutes later armed officers stormed the Jewish supermarket in Paris where Amedy
Coulibaly had been locked in a stand off.

He had threatened to kill hostages if police acted against the Kouachis.

It was today reported that French police fear six Islamic terror cells could
still be on the loose in France following last week's terror attacks which left
17 people dead.

Up to 10,000 soldiers are now on the streets of Paris with 5,000 police officers
protecting Jewish schools.

Police sources say 'up to six' potential terror cells are thought to still be in
the country.

As reported by Mail Online, French Prime Minister Manuel Valls has warned "we
are at war" and said there are 'without doubt' accomplices to those who
committed last week's murders.

Police fear Paris terrorist fixer Hayat Boumeddiene, caught on CCTV fleeing to
IS-controlled Syria, will plan a new atrocity.

Boumeddiene, 26, made her way across the border from Turkey on Thursday, the day
before husband Amedy Coulibaly had murdered four in the kosher grocery siege.

She is now believed to be travelling with another man, identified as 23-year-old
Mehid Sabri Belhoucine.

She had flown in to Istanbul airport - where the CCTV picture was taken - on
January 2.

UK security services are liaising with French and Turkish counterparts to
establish her exact whereabouts.Try our quick news quiz

Quick Quiz: News 13/1/15

Follow the Daily Record on Facebook for all the latest news, sports and
entertainment updates

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     January 13, 2015 Tuesday 11:48 AM GMT

Paris terror attack: Hostage reveals 'heart stopping' moment Kouachi brothers
almost discovered his hiding place;
AS LILIAN Lepere hid in a cupboard, his heart stopped when one of the gunmen
opened the cupboard door next to his in search of food.

BYLINE: By Jessica Best

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 402 words


Lillian Lepere jihadi stood inches away as he texted police

GRAPHIC designer Lilian Lepere, 27, hid under a sink as the Charlie Hebdo
killers were boxed in by police, has spoken in his first television interview of
the terrifying moment he came within an inch of being discovered by the Kouachi
brothers.

Lilian said he was quietly texting police after Said and Cherif Kouachi burst
into the printers where he worked in Dammartin-en-Goele. The terrorists,
responsible for the death of 12 satarists on Wednesday, took his boss hostage as
they prepared to die as "martyrs".

The two brothers were later killed in a hail of gunfire and Mr Lepere thankfully
made it out alive, but things looked troublesome when he was almost discovered
when the Kouachis took time out to drink.

Speaking to France 2 TV, Lepere said: "I hid under a sink in a cabinet with two
hinged doors... Most of the time they were in the boss's office next door. I
heard shooting and then one of them opened the cupboard next to mine.

"Then he opened the fridge, he was only 50cm away. I thought he was going to
open every cupboard."

At times the Frenchman broke down in tears as he recounted the terrifying
ordeal.

He went on: "He took a drink from the sink and I could see his shadow.

"My back was against the pipe and I could feel the water flowing.

"It was like you see in the movies. At that point the brain stops thinking, the
heart stops beating, you stop breathing."

Mr Lepere also expressed his thanks to his boss, who told him to hide when he
saw the two gunmen arrive at the office.

"I want to say thank you, he gave me the seconds I needed to hide," he said.

"If they had discovered... there had been two hostages, things might have been
very different. They would have kept us to the end."

"It is thanks to him that I am here."

Charlie Hebdo shooting

After Mr Lepere had spent hours texting the police and his family describing
what he could see and hear, the siege was finally brought to an end when the
brothers emerged from the building firing at police.

Both were shot and killed at around the same time armed officers killed Amedy
Coulibaly - the third gunman who had attacked a Jewish supermarket in Paris,
killing four hostages.

Why not try your luck at our daily news quiz:

Quick Quiz: News 11/1/15

Follow the Daily Record on Facebook for all the latest news, sports and
entertainment updates:

www.facebook.com/TheScottishDailyRecord

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      January 13, 2015 Tuesday 8:03 AM GMT

Prophet Muhammad shedding single tear to appear of first front cover of Charlie
Hebdo magazine since Paris terror attack;
About 3 million copies of the magazine will go on sale tomorrow - including up
to 1,000 in Britain

BYLINE: By Lindsey Archibald

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 320 words


PROPHET Muhammad shedding a single tear will appear on the first front cover of
Charlie Hebdo magazine since the Paris terror attack.

About 3 million copies of the magazine - which normally has a circulation of
60,000- will be printed.

It will also go on sale in Britain, with 1,000 copies expected to be sold.

On the cover the Prophet can be seen on the cover holding a sign which declares:
'Je Suis Charlie' while shedding a single tear.

As reported by Mail Online, the magazine's lawyer Richard Malka said: "We will
not give in. The spirit of "Je suis Charlie" means the right to blaspheme.

"We will not give in otherwise all this won't have meant anything."

The editor-in-chief has also said he hopes this week's edition 'makes people
laugh'

There is no way that the next Charlie Hebdo won't go out

Gerard Biard told Sky News: "We don't know how to do much else. What do you want
us to do?

"They've asked us - will you carry on? Will you go on laughing? Will you carry
on putting together a newspaper?

"What else do you want us to do other than put out a newspaper? Make you laugh,
be what we are.

"Of course we'll laugh and hopefully make you laugh too."

              Paris unity march: One million people take to the streets of the
French capital

Mr Biard added: "In the last few days we have done cartoons. Some were quite
personal.

"For example, in our newsroom meetings, Charb always loved drawing. He kept
drawing all the time.

"What makes a great cartoonist is he draws like he breathes. He never stops
drawing. All our cartoonists draw all the time. And those who died also drew all
the time. We're not missing content."

Twelve people were shot dead at the magazine by two gunmen who claimed their
attack was in revenge for previous Mohammed cartoons printed in the magazine.
Gunshots and woman runs to hide behind car - first scene video from Paris
shooting

Try your hand at our news quiz

Quick Quiz: News 12/1/15

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Spies will get licence to snoop on all emails if Tories win election;
France terror attacks

BYLINE: Christopher Hope; Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 516 words


THE Conservatives would bring in a law to help the security services spy on the
activity of British citizens on the internet in the wake of the Paris attacks,
David Cameron has said.

The Prime Minister said the Security Services would be given the powers to read
all messages sent over the internet, if his party wins the general election.

Mr Cameron's decision means that the so-called "snoopers' charter" is emerging
as a key election battleground with the Liberal Democrats opposing the plans,
making it a "red line" issue if another Coalition is formed.

Labour is backing more powers for the intelligence agencies, as long as the
powers are aligned with stronger oversight of their activities.

Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader and Deputy Prime Minister, will say in a
speech today that it would mean "a new indiscriminate power for governments to
record every man, woman and child's web history, emails and social media
interactions" whether they are innocent or guilty.

He will say: "Let me be really clear, we have every right to invade the privacy
of terrorists and those we think want to do us harm, but we should not equate
that with invading the privacy of every single person in the UK. They are not
the same thing. The snoopers' charter is not targeted. It's not proportionate.
It's not harmless. It would be a new and dramatic shift in the relationship
between the state and the individual."

Plans for a Communications Data Bill have been blocked by Liberal Democrat
opposition in the Coalition.

However, the police and the intelligence agencies have expressed concerns that
they are not able to access the content of some of the new ways to communicate
over the internet.

Mr Clegg will also criticise Mr Cameron for his promise to protect free speech
after the Paris massacre. He said: "The irony appears to be lost on some
politicians who say in one breath that they will defend freedom of expression
and then in the next advocate a huge encroachment on the freedom of all British
citizens."

Mr Cameron said any new law would be in force from next year. He said: "If I am
prime minister I will make sure that it is a comprehensive piece of legislation
that does not allow terrorists safe space to communicate with each other."

The news came as Mr Cameron said British soldiers were on standby to take to the
streets in the event of a Paris-style gun attack by terrorists. The Ministry of
Defence has been told to ensure troops can be deployed if needed if Islamist
jihadists strike in the UK. It is understood British special forces, such as the
SAS, would be the first to be called in to action but the possibility of regular
soldiers taking to the streets has not been ruled out.

The Prime Minister ordered the police and military to work closely "to ensure
that the police can call on appropriate military assistance when required".

Mr Cameron met security, intelligence and policing chiefs yesterday to assess
the risk to Britain following the threeday terror outrage. The Paris scenario
will be re-enacted in exercises in the UK, designed to prepare for a terror
attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: High security: an armed officer in Whitehall yesterday while the Prime
Minister met security chiefs in the wake of the Paris attacks

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Birmingham a no-go zone? US expert is an idiot, says PM;
France terror attacks

BYLINE: Matthew Holehouse; Raf Sanchez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 633 words


AN AMERICAN "terrorism expert" who claimed that Birmingham is a Muslimonly city
is "clearly a complete idiot", David Cameron has said.

The Prime Minister said he choked on his porridge after hearing the claim by
Steve Emerson, a Fox News pundit, that non-Muslims "simply don't go" to
Britain's second-largest city.

Mr Emerson issued a grovelling apology after issuing the claim.

Mr Cameron said: "Frankly I choked on my porridge and thought it must be April
Fools Day. This guy is clearly a complete idiot.

"He started with an apology. That's not a bad start. But what he should do is
look at Birmingham and see what a fantastic example it is, bringing people
together of different faiths and different backgrounds and building a
world-class brilliant city with a great and strong economy."

Mr Emerson made the claim during a television discussion about no-go zones in
Europe where Muslims are apparently in complete control.

"In Britain, it's not just no-go zones, there are actual cities like Birmingham
that are totally Muslim where non-Muslims just simply don't go in," he said.

Mr Emerson, who describes himself as "an internationally recognised expert on
terrorism", did not stop there.

"Parts of London, there are actually Muslim religious police that actually beat
and actually wound seriously anyone who doesn't dress according to Muslim,
religious Muslim attire," he proclaimed, without giving examples.

He described Birmingham as one European city "where sharia courts were set up,
where Muslim density is very intense, where the police don't go in, and where
it's basically a separate country almost, a country within a country". Mr
Emerson is a regular contributor to Fox News and was appearing on Judge Pirro, a
show hosted by the failed Republican politician Jeanine Pirro.

Ms Pirro responded to her guest's claim that the British government doesn't
"exercise any sovereignty" in Birmingham by saying: "You know what it sounds
like to me, Steve? It sounds like a caliphate within a particular country."

Disgruntled Brummies took to Twitter to express their disdain for Mr Emerson's
characterisation of their home city.

Fox News issued a retraction, pointing out that 21 per cent of Birmingham is
Muslim, with 46.1 per cent identifying as Christian.

After being contacted by The Daily Telegraph, Mr Emerson released a fulsome
apology, saying he "clearly made a terrible error for which I am deeply sorry".

He added he would make a donation to a Birmingham charity and take out an advert
in a Birmingham newspaper.

In a statement, he said: "I have clearly made a terrible error for which I am
deeply sorry. My comments about Birmingham were totally in error. And I am
issuing an apology and correction on my website immediately for having made this
comment about the beautiful city of Birmingham.

"I do not intend to justify or mitigate my mistake by stating that I had relied
on other sources because I should have been much more careful. There was no
excuse for making this mistake and I owe an apology to every resident of
Birmingham. I am not going to make any excuses. I made an inexcusable error. And
I am obligated to openly acknowledge that mistake."

Meanwhile, BBC reporter Tim Willcox faced calls to resign after his comments to
the daughter of Holocaust survivors in Paris caused anger during his coverage of
Sunday's rally.

During a live report, Willcox was speaking to a number of participants in the
march, including one woman who expressed her fears that Jews were being
persecuted, and "the situation is going back to the days of the 1930s in
Europe."

To this, Willcox replied: 'Many critics though of Israel's policy would suggest
that the Palestinians suffer hugely at Jewish hands as well.'

The woman said that she had lived in France for 20 years, but was from Israel.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Steve Emerson, right, was interviewed by Jeanine Pirro for her show on
Fox News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      January 13, 2015 Tuesday 3:37 PM GMT

Paris honour police officers killed in terror attacks while Israel buries siege
victims

BYLINE: Dion Dassanayake

LENGTH: 611 words


FRANCE paid tribute today to the police officers murdered in terror attacks as
Israel buried four Jewish people killed in the Paris Kosher deli siege.

GETTY

Francois Hollande paid tribute to the police officers killed in the French
terror attacks

A memorial service was held in the French capital in honour of Ahmed Merabet,
Franck Brinsolaro and Clarissa Jean-Philippe killed in the line of duty.

While in Jerusalem funerals were held for those murdered in what Francois
Hollande had previously described as an "anti-Semitic" attack.

At the police headquarters in Paris, the officers killed by terrorists last week
were posthumously given France's top hour - the Legion d'Honneur.

Mr Hollande placed the medals on three coffins draped in the French flag during
the ceremony.

The French President paid tribute to the police officers and said they "died so
that we may live in freedom" as he addressed crowds.

AFP/GETTY

The police officers were posthumously given the Legion d'Honneur

At one point Mr Hollande hugged and kissed on the cheek one of the victim's
family members and consoled her as she spoke to him through tears.

Mr Merabet, 42, was shot dead outside the Charlie Hebdo offices while he lay on
the ground defencelessly by gunmen.

Pictures of the shooting on Wednesday appeared to show him raising his hand in
an apparent plea of surrender before he was killed.

Married father-of-two Mr Brinsolaro, 49, was killed while guarding late Charlie
Hebdo editor Stephane Charbonnier who had been sent death threats.

Ms Jean-Philippe, 27, was shot dead on Thursday just weeks after completing her
police training.

She was murdered by Amedy Coulibaly, the gunmen who went onto kill four Jewish
people during a siege on a Kosher supermarket in Paris last Friday.

IG

Francois Hollande consoles one of the victim's family members

The victims of that siege had their funeral held in Israel today.

Yohan Cohen, Yoav Hattab, Francois-Michel Saada and Phillipe Braham were buried
in Jerusalem after their bodies were flown in this morning.

The funeral procession was attended by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
and other public figures.

REUTERS

People in the crowds were emotional as they gathered for the memorial

The French citizens were killed by Islamic State gunman Amedy Coulibaly during a
siege at the Hyper Cacher supermarket in Porte de Vincennes.

Coulibaly was shot dead by commandos who stormed the store while 15 people who
had been held hostage were freed as the siege came to a dramatic end.

Mr Netanyahu said on Sunday he had accepted a request from the families of the
supermarket siege to bury the group of Jewish men in Israel.

It came as the 65-year-old joined more than 40 world leaders in Paris as up to
1.6million people marched in defiance against the terror attacks.

REUTERS

A funeral service was also held for those who died in the French supermarket
siege

An estimated 3.7million people in total across France held unity marches
following the three-day reign of terror in the country.

Coulibaly, 32, reportedly told French TV that he had "co-ordinated" his attacks
with the gunmen who killed 12 people at the offices of Charlie Hebdo.

Cherif and Said Kouachi attacked the newspaper, based in Paris, after they
published a cartoon of the Muslim prophet Muhammad.

EPA

Four people were killed in the Jewish supermarket siege

All three gunmen were killed by armed police on Friday. It brought to an end a
manhunt lasting more than 48 hours for the Kouachi brothers.

The Paris terror attacks, which gripped the French capital for three days from
Wednesday, left 17 people dead plus the three terrorists.

brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

France deploys 10,000 troops to protect the country after terror attacks

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 107 words


France deploys 10,000 troops and almost 5,000 extra police officers to form
street patrols and protect the country, with a focus on the most 'sensitive'
locations incl transport hubs, tourism sites, key buildings and Jewish sites,
following last week's terror attacks. On Wednesday 12 people died when three
masked gunmen stormed the offices of French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.
Five more died on Friday after a stand-off at a Jewish supermarket in Paris. The
magazine has angered some Muslims in the past by printing cartoons of the
Prophet Muhammad

Event Start Date: 2015-01-13

Event End Date: 2015-01-13

Event URL: http://www.elysee.fr/

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      January 13, 2015 Tuesday 4:41 PM GMT

Australian PM says he'll now use Daesh instead of Isil for 'death cult' - but
why?;
Tony Abbott says the new name deprives the group of legitimacy, but why do its
members hate it and what makes naming them so complicated?Charlie Hebdo: first
cover since terror attack depicts prophet Muhammad

BYLINE: Fred McConnell

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 456 words


Tony Abbott has announced that from now he will refer to the Islamic State group
as "Daesh", on the grounds that the terminology deprives the group of legitimacy
among Muslims.

"Daesh hates being referred to by this term, and what they don't like has an
instinctive ­appeal to me,'' the Australian prime minister told the Herald Sun.

"I absolutely refuse to refer to it by the title that it claims for itself
[Islamic State], because I think this is a perversion of religion and a travesty
of governance."

Western leaders and media have struggled for a consistent terminology to
identify the group, which was initially known in English as the Islamic State of
Iraq and the Levant (Isil), then the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham (Isis)
and subsequently often simply as Islamic State (IS). Al-Sham is often translated
as Syria but can also refer specifically to Damascus or even the entire Levant
region.

"Islamic State" is near enough a literal translation from the group's name in
Arabic, Al Dawla al-Islamyia, yet the original is more of a religious concept
than a political one. Our translation is misleading because it implies a western
conception of bureaucratic statehood.

The Arabic equivalent relates to the Qur'anic ideal of a universal Islamic
community or umma, united by faith and spirituality, and bound in religious
terms by sharia. No matter what term the media use, English cannot adequately
capture that meaning.

In that light, Abbott's insistence on "Daesh" seems like a canny workaround. He,
like the French president, François Hollande, is essentially saying: you don't
get to name yourselves. It solves the problem both of legitimacy and of
semantically flawed translations.

Daesh is also an acronym, but of the Arabic words that mean the same as Isis: Al
Dawla al-Islamyia fil Iraq wa'al Sham.

As such, it loses all meaning in non-Arabic contexts. With Daesh - or Da'ish,
with the emphasis on a long "e" - the Islamic association is nowhere to be
found. Abbott manages to further neuter the term by mispronouncing it "Dash".
Perhaps this itself is a subtle power move.

It is not just the lack of the word "Islamic" in the new term that frustrates
Isis. In adopting the term Abbott joins many Arabic speakers who also use Daesh.

In Arabic, the word lends itself to being snarled with aggression. As Simon
Collis, the British ambassador to Iraq told the Guardian's Ian Black : "Arabic
speakers spit out the name Da'ish with different mixtures of contempt, ridicule
and hostility. Da'ish is always negative."

And if that wasn't infuriating enough for the militants, Black reports that the
acronym has already become an Arabic word in its own right, with a plural -
daw'aish - meaning "bigots who impose their views on others".

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      January 13, 2015 Tuesday 3:53 PM GMT

Murdoch says Muslims must be held responsible for France terror attacks;
News Corp boss tweets to say even peaceful Muslims must bear burden of deadly
Charlie Hebdo death toll 'until they destroy growing jihadist cancer'JK Rowling
condemns Murdoch's tweet following Charlie Hebdo killings

BYLINE: Guardian staff

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 559 words


Rupert Murdoch has been strongly criticised after tweeting that "most Moslems" -
even if peaceful - must be held responsible for the religion's "growing jihadist
cancer" in the wake of the terror attacks in France.

The News Corp boss added his influential voice to the global discussion on
terror that has convulsed social media since gunmen slaughtered 12 people at the
offices of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris on Wednesday.

Murdoch's tweet on Saturday morning - which came in the wake of the killing of
five more civilians at a kosher supermarket in Paris on Friday - was retweeted
more than 1,500 times, and favourited by more than 767 people.

But the tweet angered many who criticised Murdoch for holding a religion of
billions of peaceful people responsible for the actions of a minority of
extremists.

One Twitter user referenced Murdoch's own responsiblity in the case of the News
Corp phone-hacking scandal, while the Australian comedian Adam Hills was
sceptical about the media mogul's contribution to the debate.

Murdoch followed up his earlier tweet by claiming that "political correctness
makes for denial and hypocrisy".

In the US, outspoken satirist Bill Maher hosted the 13th season premiere of his
HBO talk show Real Time with Bill Maher on Friday night. Flanked by political
commentator Paul Begala, former Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina, and author
and activist Salman Rushdie, Maher claimed "hundreds of millions of [Muslims]
support an attack like [Charlie Hebdo]."

"What we've said all along, and have been called bigots for it, is when there's
this many bad apples, there's something wrong with the orchard," Maher said.

Maher addressed the Ben Affleck on-air fracas that went viral in October last
year, when author Sam Harris said "Islam [is] the motherlode of bad ideas".
Affleck hit back, saying such generalised criticisms of Islam were "gross" and
"racist," and likening them to someone calling Maher "a shifty Jew".

"Obviously, the vast majority of Muslims would never do anything like this,"
said Maher. "But they share bad ideas. This is the thing that caused the big
ruckus when Ben Affleck was here. Sam Harris said, 'Islam is the motherlode of
bad ideas,' and everyone went fuckin' nuts on this side of the panel. But it is.
These two guys who shot up the cartoonists the other day, they were avenging the
prophet, they said? A bad idea. Martyrdom? A bad idea. Women as second-class
citizens? A bad idea. And unfortunately, the terrorists and the mainstream share
a lot of these bad ideas."

The British Indian author Salman Rushdie, who was placed under a fatwa in 1989
following the publication of his book The Satanic Verses, said there had been "a
deadly mutation in the middle of Islam".

"This is not a random mutation... This has been a mutation that a lot of work
has been put into. Governments, from the Sunni side the Saudi government, on the
Shia side the Iranian government, have been putting fortunes of money into
making sure that extremist mullahs are preaching in mosques around the world,
and in building and developing schools in which a whole generation is being
educated in extremism - and trying to prevent other forms of education."

· This article was amended on 13 January 2015 because an earlier version
referred to "Oscar-winning filmmaker and author Sam Harris". This has been
corrected.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      January 13, 2015 Tuesday 9:18 AM GMT

Jewish victims of Paris terrorist attack arrive in Israel for burial;
Binyamin Netanyahu will be among public figures at the ceremony in Jerusalem as
France steps up security at Jewish sites

BYLINE: Peter Beaumont in Jerusalem

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 692 words


The bodies of four Jewish victims of the Paris terrorist attack on a kosher
supermarket have arrived in Israel for burial.

They were brought by a plane that landed early on Tuesday morning at Ben Gurion
airport, near Tel Aviv. The burial was to take place at a cemetery in Jerusalem.

Binyamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, and other public figures are to
attend the ceremony, which will be held under tight security as Israelis
travelled from across the country to attend.

The El Al flight carrying the coffins of Yoav Hattab, 21, Yohan Cohen, 20
Philippe Braham, 40, and Francois-Michel Saada, 64, arrived at 4am before the
bodies were taken in a convoy of ambulances and other vehicles donated by the
French community in Israel to the huge cemetery at Givat Shaul on the outskirts
of Jerusalem.

The four men were in the Hyper Cacher kosher supermarket in Paris on Friday and
were killed shortly after it was attacked by Amedy Coulibaly, a jihadi gunman,
who then took 15 other shoppers hostage before police stormed the building.

Coulibaly was associated with two other gunmen who were behind the murder of 12
people at the Paris offices of satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo two days earlier.

Netanyahu on Sunday said he had agreed to a request from the families that the
victims be buried in Jerusalem.

"He would have wanted to be buried only there," said Philippe Braham's wife,
Valerie, adding that they had a son who was buried in Israel. "He should be
there with him," she said in an interview with Israeli television.

Family members of the four dead men travelled with them to Israel, including
Cohen's fiance.

Before the funerals - and to mark last week's events - French flags were on
display across Jerusalem, including on King David Street.

Although it was not an official state funeral, it had the trappings of one,
attended by senior Israeli political figures including the country's president,
Reuven Rivlin and the leader of the opposition, Isaac Herzog.

Before the funeral, Hattab's father, Rabbi Benjamin Hattab, described the moment
that he learned his son - killed after trying to grab one of Coulibaly's guns -
was in the supermarket to Israel's Channel 20.

"I knew that my son worked in the area and I called his phone but he didn't
answer. I knew he was there. At 6.30pm they called and said he was OK. At 7pm, I
said I wanted to talk to him and they said 'wait a bit.' At 10pm, they told us
he had died," he said.

Yoav Hattab was the second member of his family to die in a terrorist attack.
One of his aunts was killed, aged 14, in an attack on a Tunisian synagogue in
1985.

The killings shocked France's 500,000 strong Jewish community, the largest in
Europe, and prompted calls from Netanyahu for Jews throughout the continent to
emigrate to Israel to insure their safety amid a rising wave of antisemitism.

For many, the supermarket attack brought back memories of another deadly
shooting in the southern French city of Toulouse in March 2012, when Islamist
gunman Mohamed Merah shot dead three young children and a teacher at a Jewish
school.

The victims of that attack were buried in the same Jerusalem cemetery where the
victims from the Paris shooting were to be laid to rest.

Last year, France topped the immigration list to Israel, according to the Jewish
Agency, a nonprofit group that works closely with the government and acts as a
link between Jews around the world. Nearly 7,000 new immigrants came in 2014,
double the number from the previous year.

The funerals came a day after Netanyahu visited the Paris supermarket where the
four men were killed.

"There I met Celine, who was one of the hostages and who told me what happened
during the terror attack," Netanyahu wrote on his Facebook page after the visit.

"A straight line runs between extremist Islam's attacks around the world and the
attack that took place here," Netanyahu wrote. "I expect all leaders, after we
marched together through the streets of Paris, to fight all forms of terror,
even when it is directed at Israel and at Jews. As far as I'm concerned, I will
always make sure that Israel marches in the frontline ... when it comes to its
security and future."

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 13, 2015 Tuesday 7:17 PM GMT

Shomrim Jewish security group steps up patrols in London following deadly terror
attack at Paris kosher supermarket;
Some 80 volunteers help to run the civilian security group in the capital

BYLINE: Kashmira Gander

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 557 words


A civilian security group run by volunteers from the Hasidic Jewish community in
north London has stepped up its patrols, in the wake of terrorist attacks in
France last week.

During the siege at a kosher supermarket in Paris, Islamic extremist Amedy
Coulibaly took 12 people hostage, and later killed four people.

Amid fears that London will be hit by copycat attacks, Shomrim London announced
on its Twitter page that its volunteers will be carrying out more car patrols in
areas with large Jewish communities.

Following events in #Paris we will have on extra patrols throughout NW London
over Shabbos. We ask the community to remain calm & vigilant. - Shomrim London
(@shomrimlondon) January 9, 2015

Shomrim London urged local residents to remain calm, but advised vigilance
against possible copycat attacks.

The group - named after the Hebrew term for 'guards' - operates with the help of
80 volunteers, and focuses on London boroughs including Golders Green, Hendon
and Barnet.

Its members, who receive training from the Metropolitan Police, wear uniforms
complete with knife-proof vests and look out for anti-Semitic hate crimes, as
well as general trouble in the neighbourhood, the Mail Online reported.

The volunteer group also runs a 24-hour crime hotline, and its members are
trained to safely track and detain suspects until police arrive.

In pictures: Kosher grocery attack in Paris

Read more: Paris attack: Jewish victims buried in IsraelCharlie Hebdo: Radical
cleric calls cover an 'act of war'Charlie Hebdo cover: Free speech debate
stirred againCharlie Hebdo special edition featuring cartoon of Prophet Mohamed
to be sold in UK

As news of the patrols spread, members of the public previously unaware of the
group's work appeared concerned by their activities - particularly their
uniforms and patrol vehicles which resemble those used by the police.

However, the Hackney branch of the Metropolitan Police reassured the public that
Shomrim has its support.

Some ill informed comment today. @ShomrimOfficial are a community group with no
extra powers, they do a great job & we support them.- Hackney MPS (@MPSHackney)
January 12, 2015

@AdamsApple786 Think the word 'Shomrim' in big letters down all sides is fairly
unambiguous! - Hackney MPS (@MPSHackney) January 11, 2015

Asked by a member of the public whether the police would provide the same level
of support for Islamic groups wanting to set up their own security, the force
tweeted: "Provided they stay within the boundaries of English law, yes of
course."

Rivki Rokach, a manager at Kosher Kingdom supermarket in Golders Green told the
Associated Press that management was putting into place new security measures,
but said business had not dropped off since the attacks.

"People are in a bit of panic mode, but thank God people need to shop," she
said. "We are doing everything we can to make sure people are comfortable."

Shomrim has not yet responded to contact from The Independent, but issued a
statement to Sky News saying its patrol vehicle was "clearly marked with large
lettering with the name of our charity, on all four sides so as not to
impersonate police in any way."

"We are not a police force. Our unpaid volunteers and unpaid staff are compiled
of men and women of the local neighbourhood regardless of their ethnicity or
religious affiliation," the statement added.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 13, 2015 Tuesday 12:00 AM GMT

Paris terror attacks: 3m copies of Charlie Hebdo to be distributed on Wednesday;

The distributors of the satirical magazine had originally planned to print 1
million of the magazines

BYLINE: Kashmira Gander

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 302 words


As many as three million copies of Charlie Hebdo will be available on newsstands
on Wednesday, according to its editor-in-chief.

Gérard Biard told Radio Canada that 3 million copies of the satirical magazine
will be printed in the wake of a tragic terror attack, which left 12 people
dead: eight journalists, two police officers, a caretaker and a visitor.

In pictures: Charlie Hebdo Demonstration, Paris

The hefty boost in copies was confirmed by MLP, which distributes the magazine,
AFP reported. Usually, the paper prints only 60,000 copies a week, and sells
around 30,000.

Last week, MLP revealed initial plans to print one million copies of the first
post-attack issue, which will feature cartoons of Mohamed according to the
publication's lawyers.

During Wednesday's attack, the Kouachi brothers declared they were avenging the
Prophet, after a series of controversial cartoons depicting him were published
in previous issues of Charlie Hebdo.

Read more: Video purports to show gunman's girlfriend in IstanbulAl-Qaeda gains
ground in Yemen as country descends into civil warCoulibaly 'accomplice on the
loose'

In a show of solidarity following the tragedy, Radio France, Le Monde and France
Televisions released a joint statement last week in which they offered to help
the publication continue.

They also urged other media outlets to follow suit and offer their assistance.

Their statement read: "Faced with horror, the groups Radio France, Le Monde and
France Televisions announce that Charlie Hedbo will be made available and its
team will bring together all necessary means to ensure that Charlie Hebdo
continues to live.

"The three groups invite the French media to mobilise this morning and come
together to protect the principles of independence and freedom of thought and
expression: guarantors of our democracy."

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Ledbury Reporter

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

Malvern brewery designs special beer pump clip to "show solidarity" with victims
of Paris terror attacks

BYLINE: Lydia Johnson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 343 words


PUBS around Worcester and Malvern will be standing together with people all
around the world in remembering those killed in terror attacks in Paris last
week.

The Malvern Hills Brewery, based on West Malvern Road, has designed a beer pump
clip, which features the words 'Je Suis Charlie' against a black background.

The words - which translate to I Am Charlie - are a slogan adopted by supporters
of free speech and freedom of expression following the attacks on the offices of
the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in Paris on Wednesday last week in which
12 people were killed.

Frances Casey, who works in sales and marketing at the brewery, said the clip
has been offered to all of the pubs which the brewery supplies to, and all have
taken up the chance to display it.

"We designed the clip because we wanted to raise awareness and show solidarity
with all affected by the attack," Ms Casey said.

"The idea came about when we were seeing everything on television about the
attacks and we just really felt an urge to do something. It was a way of showing
solidarity with people around the world at this time. Something like this could
easily have happened in the UK.

"We aren't trying to be political, but we are trying to show empathy and that we
are united. It's also about reminding people not to side-line Muslims because of
this. People can't forget that the people who carried out this attack are
fundamentalists, and not the everyday Muslim who lives down the street with
their family.

"So many pubs have taken up the offer of displaying the clip, so pubs in
Malvern, Worcester, Birmingham and Cheltenham will have one."

Seventeen people in total were killed in Paris last week in the attacks which
also targeted a police officer and a kosher supermarket.

On Sunday, an estimated 3.7 million people took to the streets to show
solidarity with the victims.

The main attackers, Amedy Coulibaly and brothers Saïd and Chérif Kouachi, were
killed following police sieges, but police in France are searching for at least
one other person who may have been involved.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Leicester Mercury

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

terror attacksMarks of respects with book

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 225  words


A book  of condolence has been opened in Leicester as a mark of respect for the
people who died in terrorist attacks by Islamic extremists in Paris last week.

The book is in Leicester City Council's customer service centre, in Granby
Street, and members of the public are welcome to sign it.

The council also plans to fly the French flag at half-mast tomorrow,  a week
since the start of the terrorist attacks which killed 17 people,   including 12
at the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.

The flag will be hoist above the Town Hall in a show of solidarity with the
French people.

City mayor Sir  Peter Soulsby said: "Our thoughts and prayers are with the
victims and their loved ones.

"We want to offer our   condolences and show   solidarity to them and the people
of Paris after this   brutal attack.

"There has been an outpouring of grief and support across the world after the
horrendous events of the past few days.  The book of condolence will give the
people of Leicester an opportunity to lend their names to the    document as a
mark of   respect."

The book of condolence is available to sign from now until the end of the week.

Sir Peter will then send the book of condolence to the Mayor of Paris on behalf
of the people of Leicester.

He has also  written to the Mayor of Strasbourg, which is twinned with the city,
to   express condolences.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 13, 2015 Tuesday 9:08 PM GMT

Security stepped up at US airports in wake of al-Qaeda instructions on how to
make 'invisible' bomb and Paris terror attacks

BYLINE: STEVE HOPKINS FOR MAILONLINE and JAMES NYE FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 655 words



     ·    Department of Homeland Security announce increased screening by TSA
     ·    Follows on from French terror assault on Charlie Hebdo magazine
     ·    English-language al-Qaeda magazine provided instructions on how to
          make undetectable bomb


American airports have had security increased after al-Qaeda published
instructions on how to make an 'undetectable' bomb to bring down passenger jets.

Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson said that the TSA will now
begin searching more travelers, especially in wake of the Charlie Hebdo terror
attacks in Paris.

While Johnson said that there was 'no specific, credible threat' of an imminent
attack, recent calls by al-Qaeda and ISIS to attack Western civilians, police
and soldiers left them with little choice but to urge on the side of caution.

The latest edition of al-Qaeda's English-language, online magazine, Inspire
outlines how to make the bomb from household goods and without using metal
components that would show up in airport security checks.

Al-Qaeda on the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), writes that it has spared 'no effort
in simplifying the idea' so that every 'determined Muslim can prepare'.

The 'hidden bomb' instructions are contained in the latest edition of Inspire
which features a civilian airliner on its cover.

'This group, AQAP, is absolutely determined... to try and [carry] out an attack
on a U.S.-bound airplane,' said Matt Olsen, former Director of the National
Counterterrorism Center and current ABC News consultant.

'The prospect of AQAP trying to get a bomb on an airplane has been, for the past
several years, at the top of the list for concerns of the U.S. counterterrorism
community.'

The magazine tells readers how to make the device from 'simple materials that
are readily available around the globe', then goes on to tell them whereabouts
on a plane to detonate the device to cause maximum damage.

Charlie Hebdo magazine killers, Chérif and Saïd Kouachi, are thought to have
travelled to Yemen to be trained by AQAP, where at least one of them met Anwar
al-Awlaki, the group's former spiritual leader.

Awlaki, who was killed by U.S. forces in 2011, founded the quarterly published
Inspire magazine, which has been linked to seven out of 10 terror plots against
British targets since 2010, the Sunday Times reports.

In 2009, AQAP sent Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, a graduate of University College
London, on a mission to blow up a passenger jet over Detroit. He hid the bomb in
his underwear, but it failed to detonate. Abdulmutallab was jailed for life in
2012.

The newspaper quoted an explosives expert who was sceptical the bomb AQAP was
advising readers on how to build would evade detection. The expert wasn't sure
how effective it would be either, saying it was more likely to burn rapidly, 'in
the manner of a firework'.

In the same issue of the magazine the group called for a new generation of 'lone
wolf' terrorists to blow up American Airlines, United and Delta planes using
bombs made in their kitchens.

AQAP wrote that the high-profile airlines should be targeted in a bid to gain
headlines and 'crush the enemy's economy'.

Released on Christmas Eve, the disturbing publication names the four companies
because of their size - including United, the 'world's largest airline with
86,852 employees'.

Also targeted are Air France and British carriers British Airways and easyJet -
alongside high-profile U.S. figures Bill Gates and Federal Reserve chairman Ben
Bernanke.

Continental Airlines is also singled out despite the fact that it stopped flying
planes under its name two years ago after merging with United to form United
Continental Holdings.

The latest edition has been published four years after the first issue of
Inspire contained a notorious explosives guide called Make a Bomb in the Kitchen
of Your Mom.

The guide was suspected to have been the template for explosives which killed
three and injured more than 250 in last year's Boston Marathon bombings.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

New attack fears as six terrorists remain free

BYLINE: DOMINIC YEATMAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 244 words


FRANCE is braced for a fresDOMINIC YEATMAN h wave of attacks after police warned
last night that six terror cell members may still be at large.

One suspect was driving a Mini Cooper registered to Hayat Boumeddiene, widow of
one of the dead attackers, they added.

A total of 10,000 armed troops have been deployed, with nearly half guarding
Jewish schools, prime minister Manuel Valls announced.

Synagogues and mosques would also be protected after 17 people were shot dead
last week, he added.

'The work on these terrorist and barbaric acts continues because we consider
that there are most probably some accomplices,' he added.

Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu yesterday laid flowers at the kosher
store in Paris where four people were killed on Friday.

Boumeddiene, wife of Hyper Cacher gunman Amedy Coulibaly, was seen on CCTV
arriving in Turkey.

The 26-year-old entered at Istanbul airport with companion Mehdi Sabri
Belhoucine, 23, on January 2 and slipped into Syria hours before her husband
struck on January 8. Izzana Kouachi, wife of Charlie Hebdo gunman Cherif
Kouachi, is in custody after exchanging more than 500 calls with Boumeddiene
last year.

THE 'girlfriend' of murdered Charlie Hebdo editor Stéphane Charbonnier says she
won't attend his funeral after pressure from his family. Jeannette Bougrab, 41,
accused his relatives of 'killing him a second time' by telling her to stay
away. 'They've deprived me of a last reunion with my love,' she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Search: Boumeddiene (right), wife of Amedy Coulibaly (below), on CCTV
in Istanbul

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

France mobilises 10,000 soldiers to boost security after terror attacks

SECTION: WORLD ARMIES; Government and Public Interest

LENGTH: 322 words



HIGHLIGHT: France has mobilised 10,000 soldiers to boost security at sensitive
places in the aftermath of the recent terror attacks in the country.


France has mobilised 10,000 soldiers to boost security at sensitive places in
the aftermath of the recent terror attacks in the country.

The country is also deploying nearly 5,000 extra police officers to safeguard
Jewish schools and neighbourhoods.

French Defence Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said the troops will protect
transport hubs, tourism sites and key buildings, and undertake general street
patrols.

Le Drian said: "The threats remain and we have to protect ourselves from them.

"It is an internal operation that will mobilise almost as many men as we have in
our overseas operations.

"This is the first time that our troops have been mobilised to such an extent on
our own soil."

French Prime Minister Manuel Valls was quoted by BFM TV as saying: "Synagogues,
Jewish schools but also mosques will be protected because in the past few days
there have been a number of attacks against mosques."

Seventeen people, including journalists and police officers, died during three
days of violence that started when Said and Cherif Kouachi attacked the Paris
offices of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo on 7 January.

Another gunman, Amedy Coulibaly, shot dead a policewoman in a suburb of Paris
the following day. He then took 19 people hostage inside a kosher supermarket in
eastern Paris on 9 January and killed four of them.

French security forces killed all three gunmen and arrested some of their
accomplices, but as many as six members involved in the attacks are believed to
still be at large.

Hayat Boumeddiene, who is the alleged widow of Coulibaly, has reportedly crossed
into Syria through the south-eastern Turkish city of Sanliurfa.

Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said to Agence France-Presse: "We told
them, 'the person you are looking for was here, stayed here and crossed into
Syria illegally'."

Image: Amedy Coulibaly killed four people in Hide Hyper store, Porte de
Vincennes, Paris. Photo: courtesy of JJ Georges.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    RTE News

                     January 13, 2015 Tuesday 11:51 PM GMT

Funerals held for Paris terror attack victims

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 187 words



HIGHLIGHT: Funerals for Paris terror victims


Funeral ceremonies have taken place for seven of the victims who were killed in
last week's terror attacks in Paris.

At a ceremony in Paris, President Francois Hollande honoured three police
officers shot dead in last week's Islamist attacks.

Elsewhere, the bodies of four Jews killed in the attack on a kosher
supermarketertr buried in Jerusalem.

President Hollande laid the Legion d'honneur medal on coffins draped in the
French flag as the grieving families looked on and the national anthem rang out
at the Paris police headquarters.

"They died so that we could live in freedom," Mr Hollande said during an
emotional ceremony.

"They died carrying out their duty with courage, bravery, dignity. They died as
police officers."

"I assure you that the whole of France shares your pain," he told the victims'
mourning relatives.

The four Jewish victims died when Amedy Coulibaly fired on hostages in the
supermarket on Friday afternoon.

Thousands packed into the Givat Shaul cemetery in an atmosphere of shock and
grief.

Rabbis made a symbolic cut into the clothes of immediate family members in a
traditional Jewish act of mourning.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


     Copyright 2015 RTE Commercial Enterprises Ltd / Radio Telefís Éireann
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

UK to remodel terror exercises after Paris attacks

BYLINE: David Maddox

LENGTH: 618  words


A SECURITY meeting chaired by Prime Minister David Cameron yesterday agreed the
UK needs to remodel preparations for a terrorist atrocity after the Islamist
attacks on Paris last week.

The meeting, which included heads of MI5, GCHQ and MI6, decided that the
scenarios similar to scenes played out in the French capital last week -
­including the attack on the magazine Charlie Hebdo and hostage stand-off in a
Jewish ­supermarket - should be included in exercises carried out by ­security
forces in the UK.

CONNECT WITH THE SCOTSMAN

o {http://bit.ly/1yHJ7dx | Subscribe to our daily newsletter (requires
registration) | Link to newsletter sign up} and get the latest news, sport and
business headlines delivered to your inbox every morning

o You can also follow us on {http://on.fb.me/1yHJHb5 | Facebook | Link to The
Scotsman's Facebook page}, {http://bit.ly/1zJcWhW | Twitter | Link to The
Scotsman's Twitter page} and {http://bit.ly/1pYaV87 | Google + | Link to The
Scotsman's Google+ page}

The UK's terrorism alert remains at severe - the second highest level - amid
continued concerns there will be an attack.

Mr Cameron has also pledged to beef up the security services' powers to monitor
online and telephone conversations between terror suspects despite concerns that
it will be a "snooper's charter."

He said: "The first duty of any government is to keep our country and our people
safe... I will make sure we do not allow terrorists safe space to communicate
with each other."

After the meeting between security chiefs and the Prime Minister, a Downing
Street spokesperson said: "Following an intelligence update, they discussed the
UK's preparedness for similar incidents. The relevant police and agencies
regularly carry out exercises to test their response to a terror attack,
including scenarios similar to the incidents in Paris. The meeting agreed that
for future exercises, the relevant agencies should identify whether there are
any further specific elements of the Paris attack that should be built into the
exercise scenarios."

Meanwhile, Parliament's joint committee on human rights has expressed concerns
about the government's counter-­terrorism bill, which is due for its second
reading in the House of Lords today.

It contains plans to block UK terror suspects returning to Britain and impose a
statutory obligation on universities to prevent people being drawn into
terrorism which the committee of MPs and peers said would violate the human
rights of British nationals, even if it were only ­enforced on a temporary
basis.

It also claimed that including universities in a list of institutions required
to crack down on extremism had "implications for both freedom of expression and
academic freedom".

Immigration and security minister James Brokenshire said the government would
"carefully consider" the report.

The bill has also been criticised by the Law Society in Scotland. Alan
McCreadie, deputy director of law reform, said: "Providing the Home Secretary
with the power to deprive a UK citizen of their right to live in the country of
which they are a citizen is an unprecedented power in UK legislation.

"It is important that consideration is given as to how the provisions of the
bill ensure the rights conferred under ECHR [the European Convention on Human
Rights] are upheld."

SCOTSMAN TABLET AND IPHONE APPS

o Download your free 30-day trial for our {http://bit.ly/RIA37r | iPad | Link to
iTunes}, {http://bit.ly/1wFFxkF | Android | Link to the Android store} and
{http://amzn.to/1wCOXwp | Kindle | Link to Amazon store} apps

o {http://bit.ly/ZqN0Hr | Keep up to date with all aspects of Scottish life with
The Scotsman iPhone app, completely free to download and use | Link to iTunes}

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Sheffield Telegraph

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday

Faith leaders from across South Yorkshire condemn Paris terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 280  words


Faith leaders in South Yorkshire have condemned the terrorist attacks in France
and urged communities to unite.

Groups from across the region issued statements in the wake of last week's
attack on French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo, in which 12 people died, and
the sieges across Paris.

The Sheffield and Doncaster Faith Leaders Group said they stand united against
those who wish to divide us'.

They said: "Freedom of speech  is an inalienable right for all members of our
communities.

"It is with the greatest of sadness that we speak of what has happened.

"However, we must be vigilant that while we remember those who lost their lives,
we do not allow this tragedy to embolden those who would use it to divide and
harm community unity.

"The communities of South Yorkshire stand in unity with the people of France,
with people of all faiths and no faith, in solidarity to uphold the right of
freedom of speech for all.

"We must ensure the acts of a few individuals will not be used as a means of
scapegoating the entire Muslim population of Europe.

"At this time, we call for unity and solidarity and, in the name of universal
human rights, to stand together in respect and tolerance of all faiths."

The Federation of Mosques Sheffield said: "Whomever the attackers are, and
whatever the cause, nothing justifies the taking of life. We ask all communities
for unity and calm.

"Life is sacred and this brutal attack must be condemned by all people.

"The Islamic faith does not allow anyone to take the life of others. Such people
are condemned in the holy Quran.

"In this tragic difficult time, our thoughts are with bereaved families, people
of Paris and people of France."

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NSTE


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 13, 2015 Tuesday 6:15 PM GMT

Up to 5,000 Europeans pose terror threat after going abroad to fight jihad;
Director of Europol warns Europe is facing worst terror threat since the
September 11 attacks

BYLINE: By David Barrett Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 288 words


Up to 5,000 Europeans pose a potential terror threat after travelling overseas
to Syria, one of Europe's most senior law enforcement officers has warned.

Rob Wainwright, the director of Europol, warned that Europe is facing the "most
serious terrorist threat since 09/11" in the wake of the Paris atrocities.

Mr Wainwright said between 3,000 and 5,000 European Union nationals currently
pose a potential terror risk after going abroad to fight jihad in Syria and
elsewhere.

He told the Commons' home affairs select committee that Europol has so far drawn
up a list of 2,500 names of potential suspects from a number of security
agencies across the EU.

Keith Vaz MP, the committee chairman, said the Yemen government had indicated
that last year 3,200 British nationals travelled to the country last year,
raising fears that many could be travelling on to Syria.

Mr Wainwright warned that the EU citizens, mainly young men, who travelled
overseas have the potential to return to their home countries and carry out
attacks.

Asked how many potential fighters had left Europe, Mr Wainwright said: "We're
talking about 3,000 to 5,000 EU nationals.

"Clearly, we're dealing with a large body of mainly young men who have the
potential to come back and have the potential or the intent and capability to
carry out attacks we have seen in Paris in the last week."

He added: "It's the most serious terrorist threat Europe has faced since 09/11."

Mr Wainwright said the nature of Islamist extremism had changed significantly
since the 2001 attacks on America, when the threat came from a
tightly-controlled network of al-Qaeda operatives.

Today the threat was posed by a "more diffuse" network which is scattered and
"semi-independent", he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 13, 2015 Tuesday 12:20 PM GMT

Rotterdam's mayor tells Muslims to pack their bags and go if they don't like
freedom;
Rotterdam's Moroccan born mayor tells his fellow Muslim immigrants they "can
---- off" if they do not appreciate freedom of speech in the aftermath of the
Charlie Hebdo terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Telegraph reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 240 words


Ahmed Aboutaleb, a Labour politician and former government minister, issued his
uncompromising message on the day that Islamist terrorists attacked the French
satirical magazine because it published cartoons mocking Islam.

"It is incomprehensible that you can turn against freedom. But if you do not
like freedom, in Heaven's name pack your bag and leave," he said.

"There may be a place in the world where you can be yourself," he continued. "Be
honest with yourself and do not go and kill innocent journalists. And if you do
not like it here because humorists you do not like make a newspaper, may I then
say you can ---- off."

Mr Aboutaleb, who became the Dutch city's mayor in 2008, has repeatedly hit the
headlines for his outspoken views on the integration of immigrants, including
praise from Boris Johnson.

"[His] is the voice of the Enlightenment, of Voltaire. We can and will protect
this country against these jihadist thugs," wrote London's mayor in Monday's
Telegraph .

"But if we are going to win the struggle for the minds of these young people,
then that is the kind of voice we need to hear - and it needs above all to be a
Muslim voice."

A "secular Muslim", Mr Aboutaleb grew up the son of an imam in northern Morocco,
but moved to the Netherlands aged 15 in 1976.

He has been criticised by Geert Wilders, the popular Dutch anti-immigrant
leader, for holding public office while possessing dual Dutch and Moroccan
passports.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 13, 2015 Tuesday 11:15 AM GMT

How does the UK plan to ban terrorist 'safe spaces'?;
David Cameron has said he will legislate to eradicate the encrypted 'safe
spaces' where terrorists can plot their attacks online. But how would a ban on
encryption work, and could it pit the government head-to-head against Apple and
other web giants?

BYLINE: By Matthew Sparkes Deputy Head of Technology

SECTION: TECH

LENGTH: 444 words


With Europe reeling from last week's terrorist attacks in Paris politicians are
calling for greater state surveillance powers to prevent a recurrence. It's been
raised in France, Italy, the US and now Britain.

Yesterday David Cameron pledged that if the Conservatives win the next general
election they'll introduce laws allowing the government to access any encrypted
messages . The idea is that terrorists will not be able to use the web to
secretly plot attacks.

"In our country, do we want to allow a means of communication between people
which even in extremis, with a signed warrant from the home secretary
personally, that we cannot read," he asked.

"My answer to that question is: 'No we must not'."

But his proposal lacks detail and raises questions not only in terms of privacy
but also logistics. It's impossible to ban encryption totally, as secure email,
mobile phones, online shopping and banking all rely on it. We each use
encryption daily. And the appeal of apps such as Apple's iMessage is not just
that they are secure, but that the companies themselves cannot access messages
even if they want to. They're for the eyes of the sender and the recipient only.

Any kind of exemption for existing services, of course, would render the whole
thing useless - so could end up in a situation where tens of thousands of
otherwise innocent Snapchat, WhatsApp or Skype users are clogging up the courts.
In practice, Government seems more likely to demand that any encrypted services
adapt to allow access when required. But many big technology companies, such as
Apple, have already said they would refuse such requests. The Edward Snowden
revelations, however, indicate that this has not always been the case for all
companies.

Chief executive Tim Cook boldly said last year: "I want to be absolutely clear
that we have never worked with any government agency from any country to create
a backdoor in any of our products or services. We have also never allowed access
to our servers. And we never will."

Would the UK really end up in a situation where it effectively banned Apple's
FaceTime and iMessage because the company refused to install a backdoor for
spies? It seems unlikely, but if the proposed laws were passed and Apple refused
to back down, it could result in just such a standoff.

There's already legislation that can force UK citizens to disclose the private
key - essentially the password - to any encrypted message with a court order.
And refusing to hand it over is no easy loophole: you can be jailed for up to
two years.

What Cameron is after, essentially, is the ability to look at any message, at
any time. It isn't clear how he'll get it.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 13, 2015 Tuesday 9:26 AM GMT

Charlie Hebdo attack: is France's counter-terrorism model still the example to
follow?;
Big Question: A reassessment of the French approach, which once made the country
Europe's 'counterterrorist powerhouse', is long overdue

BYLINE: By By Dr Frank Foley King's College London

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1253 words


For sixteen years between 1996 and 2012, as America was hit by 9/11 and London
experienced 7/7, France avoided any major jihadist attacks on its soil and
developed a reputation as Europe's "counterterrorist powerhouse".

Its intelligence capability and knowledge of jihadist networks is extensive, its
police forces are hard-hitting, its anti-terrorism laws draconian. Some experts
also claimed that the French state's strict approach to integrating minorities
had reduced its radicalisation problem to a minimum.

British, US and other government delegations used to visit Paris to learn from
how the French were combating jihadist networks. But France no longer appears to
offer a model of successful counterterrorism - and not just because of last
week's attacks in Paris. French jihadists have carried out three significant
terrorist attacks in the last three years in France and Belgium. A reassessment
of the French approach is long overdue.

Intelligence gaps and rivalries

France has long had powerful intelligence agencies, and in recent decades, these
services have developed extensive coverage of terrorist networks and a deep
knowledge of jihadism both at home and internationally. After 9/11, the French
provided the United States with an in-depth understanding of al-Qaeda along with
a range of useful intelligence on terrorists linked to the organisation.

However, on three occasions since 2012, jihadists known to the French
authorities have slipped through the net to commit terrorist attacks. Two of
perpetrators of last week's attacks were not only on France's intelligence
radar, but they had also been convicted of terrorism-related offences and had
served prison sentences.

In May of last year, French citizen Mehdi Nemmouche killed four people at a
Jewish museum in Brussels. French intelligence knew that he had gone to fight in
Syria and had returned to Europe - but they were unable to help their Belgian
counterparts stop this attack.

France's domestic intelligence agency also knew of and interviewed French
citizen Mohamed Merah, suspicious about his extremist tendencies and travels in
Afghanistan and Pakistan. However, in a series of attacks in March 2012, Merah
evaded detection as he killed three off-duty French soldiers at various
locations, as well as a rabbi and three children at a Jewish school.

All intelligence agencies have to make difficult choices about which individuals
to prioritise for intrusive surveillance from the potentially thousands of
people that could be suspected of involvement in terrorist networks. All have
made mistakes, including the British in the case of London bomber Mohammed
Siddique Khan.

But in the case of France, there is a strong rivalry between its main
counterterrorist police and intelligence units, which does not help matters.
Indeed, the French agencies' failure to share promptly their information on
Merah was likely an important factor in their failure to prevent his final and
most deadly attack. It remains to be seen whether such breakdowns in
communication were present in the case of last week's attacks.

My book, which compares French and British counterterrorism, shows that France's
security agency rivalries are deeply entrenched, in contrast to the British
case, where police and intelligence agencies have a much better functioning
relationship on terrorism investigations.

Integrating minorities and reducing extremism?

Experts such as Robert Leiken have claimed that France's republican emphasis on
a strong national identity, which involves a strict approach to integrating
minorities, has helped to reduce its radicalisation problem to a minimum. The
French, it seemed, had found a way to reduce the problem of terrorism at its
source.

Contrast this, said Leiken and others, against weak and divided Britain with its
multicultural approach that only fostered separation and extremism.

Yet, contrary to Leiken's analysis, radicalisation in France has been
accelerating in recent years, leading to three jihadist atrocities in western
Europe since 2012.

Those in Britain, including Prime Minister David Cameron, who have blamed
multiculturalism for feeding extremism had better realise that the main
alternative model is not a silver bullet solution to the problem of
radicalisation.

A tough police response

The police in France are not overly concerned about Arab or Muslim community
sentiment. As one French police officer told me: "I am aware of how the British
police itself tries to discuss with the different communities. We have a
different approach. We believe that it is for the community itself to play its
Republican role, and it's not for the services of the state to come and remind
[people] of the essential rules of community life in France in any case."

French society gives its police a good deal of leeway, in which context they
have often mounted indiscriminate counterterrorist operations - especially
during the 1990s when contemporary jihadism first emerged in France - arresting
as many as 160 people in one operation. Between 2001 and 2010, France deported
129 alleged extremists who were deemed to pose a threat to national security.
Over the same period, Britain removed just nine.

These crackdowns have often disrupted terrorist networks and many jihadists even
moved away from France, to neighbouring European countries including Britain, as
a result of such measures.

Yet increasingly, questions are being asked about whether this tough approach
may prove counterproductive over the long term. Invasive counterterrorist
operations and tough tactics by the general police lead to alienation in some
sections of the community and may be contributing to the increasing problem of
jihadist radicalisation in France.

Putting terrorism in perspective

It is revealing that one of Europe's most developed counterterrorism systems,
with a record long the envy of other countries, should now find itself on the
back foot.

Even France, which is highly proficient in the security realm, finds that it is
practically impossible to stamp out terrorism.

A better approach is to make your society resilient against terrorism with an
ability to put attacks in perspective and move on. Unfortunately, the last week
has not been very encouraging in that regard.

Three men with guns making relatively small attacks on soft targets have been
able to garner a disproportionately high degree of attention. For over five days
now, if media and political reaction is anything to go by, the Western world has
seemed to put other priorities to one side in order to follow the attacks and
the French response with an exaggerated fascination.

To top it off, up to 50 world leaders showed up in Paris on Sunday to make a
statement against terrorism and for freedom of speech. While this dignified
march reflects very well on the French, the event also sends a signal to other
would be attackers.

Terrorists want attention for their cause - it is a key reason why they carry
out atrocities. Now, it seems that even relatively small attacks under the
mantle of jihad can gain the undivided attention of the world.

Dr Frank Foley is a Lecturer in the Department of War Studies at King's College
London and author of                                           Countering
Terrorism in Britain and France

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 13, 2015 Tuesday 7:40 AM GMT

France attacks: Supermarket killer 'was on US terror watchlist';
Amedy Coulibaly was known to American intelligence agencies, raising further
questions about how the Paris attackers were able to plan and launch their
deadly spree

BYLINE: By Rob Crilly New York, and agencies

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 348 words


The man accused of killing four people in a supermarket siege outside Paris last
week had been on a US terror watchlist, according to a security source quoted by
CNN.

Amedy Coulibaly, who killed four Jewish shoppers at the Hyper Cacher kosher
grocery store, was listed on the Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment
(Tide), the American central database on known or suspected international
terrorists, pooled from its main security agencies.

A law enforcement official quoted by CNN said he had been on the watchlist of a
million names "for a while".

The hunt is now on to find Hayat Boumeddiene, his wife and a suspected
accomplice in the Paris terror attacks. She left France early in the new year
and crossed from Turkey into Syria on January 8, according to the Turkish
foreign minister.

Investigators are trying to find out their links to violent Jihadi groups such
as al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula or the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant
(Isil). They also want to know Coulibaly help he received from others in France,
including two brothers who shot dead 12 people at Charlie Hebdo, the French
satirical magazine, last week.

After the attack, American officials said Cherif and Said Kouachi, had been on a
US terror watchlist "for years".

The suspicions have piled pressure on French security services, who have been
asked to explain how it was they monitored the activities of the Kouachi
brothers before allowing them to drop off the radar.

French police say Coulibaly killed a policewoman in the suburb of Montrouge and
may have shot a jogger on the outskirts of Paris before the bloody supermarket
siege.

In a video posted online on Sunday, Coulibaly claims responsibility for the
Montrouge attack in the name of Isil, and says he "co-ordinated" his actions
with the Kouachi brothers.

Coulibaly and the brothers who carried out the Charlie Hebdo massacre were died
on Friday, sheat dead by police in a dramatic climax to two hostage dramas after
three days of terror in the heart of France.

Coulibaly was a repeat criminal offender also convicted for extremist activity.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            January 13, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'No safe space for the terrorists' - Cameron pledge after attacks

BYLINE: Gavin Cordon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 626 words


DAVID CAMERON has vowed that a new Conservative government would introduce
"comprehensive" legislation to ensure there is no "safe space" for terrorists to
communicate over the internet.

In the wake of the Paris terror attacks, the Prime Minister said that the
security and intelligence agencies needed "robust powers" in order to protect
the public from violent extremists.

Mr Cameron has already indicated he would seek to revive measures in the
abandoned draft communications data bill - dubbed the "snoopers' charter" by
critics - enabling the agencies to track emails and other online communications.

At the same time, new legislation will be required to enable the agencies to
continue to intercept phone calls and access the content of electronic
communications - on the basis of a warrant signed by the home secretary - when
existing powers expires in 2016.

Speaking at an event in Nottingham, Mr Cameron said he wanted to act in a
comprehensive fashion and that the powers he was seeking were "absolutely right"
for a liberal democracy.

"The attacks in Paris once again demonstrated the scale of the terrorist threat
that we face and the need to have robust powers through our intelligence and
security agencies and policing in order to keep our people safe," he said.

"The powers that I believe we need, whether on communications data or on the
content of communications, I am very comfortable that those are absolutely right
for a modern, liberal democracy. "The next government will have to legislate
again in 2016. If I am prime minister, I will make sure that it is a
comprehensive piece of legislation that makes sure we do not allow terrorists
safe space to communicate with each other.

"That is the key principle: do we allow safe spaces for them to talk to each
other? I say no, we don't, and we should legislate accordingly."

However, the Liberal Democrats, who blocked the communications data bill, warned
they would oppose any attempt to revive the measure which would have required
internet service providers to store records of user's online activity (although
not the content) - including emails, voice calls, and mobile phone messaging
services as well as visits to social media - for 12 months.

Lib Dem Justice Minister Simon Hughes told BBC Radio 4's The World at One: "We
have said 'no' and will say 'no' to blanket powers - because of the abuse of
liberty by the few - to take away the liberties of the many.

"Yesterday, people were in France defending civil liberties.

We must equally defend them in this country, even when they are under pressure."

Last night French police said they believed as many as six terror-cell members
may still be at large after the Paris attacks, one of whom has been spotted
driving a car registered to the widow of one of the dead attackers.

Two police officials told the Associated Press authorities were searching the
Paris area for the Mini Cooper car registered to Hayat Boumeddiene. Turkish
offi-cials say she is now in Syria.

Earlier, Mr Cameron was briefed by intelligence and security chiefs on the
current threat to the UK in the wake of the Paris attacks.

Following the talks in Downing Street, a No.10 spokesman said that future
counter-terrorism exercises by the police and security services will include
scenarios similar to what happened in the French capital.

"The relevant police and agencies regularly carry out exercises to test their
response to a terror attack, including scenarios similar to the incidents in
Paris," a spokesman said. "The meeting agreed that for future exercises, the
relevant agencies should identify whether there are any further specific
elements of the Paris attack that should be built into the exercise scenarios."

PM condems 'idiot': Page 8 » David Williamson: Page 24 »

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A police sniffer dog checks flowers outside the kosher market in Paris
where four hostages were killed, <Bshortly before Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu's visit to the site yesterday Francois

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 14, 2015 Wednesday

Turkish commentary views international scene following Paris terror attack

LENGTH: 809 words


Text of report by Turkish newspaper Star website on 12 January

[Commentary by Nasuhi Gungor: "Before Discussing Paris"]

Without getting the answers to certain questions, it impossible to understand
either the events in France or the new period that is taking shape around them.
For one of the most deeply rooted countries in continental Europe to be
attacked, particularly in the sphere in which it is the most ambitious, that of
"freedom of thought" and "culture," was certainly no everyday event.

When we look at the map of the colonialist period, and at the processes of
transformation during that period, one point is very noteworthy. While the
British generally preferred to transform and shape the state institutions, the
French rather preferred to influence cultural life. Those who struck at the
jugular vein of Paris must have taken all of this into careful calculation.

As for the questions whose answers we seek, they come out rather more in a
sphere which includes Turkey as well.

We are the second term of US President Barack Obama, and contrary to
expectations, the world has not grown more peaceful. Just to the contrary, the
areas of conflict are expanding with every day that passes, and the existing
ones are growing deeper. Obama's term is going to end in 2016. But the
Republicans' having attained a majority in the Senate is considered to be a
significant indication that the next administration will not be in the hands of
the Democrats.

Perhaps the most fundamental question/issue of the two Obama terms was how the
balance between the United States and Russia, and the interstitial efforts to
find solutions within this balance, would work out. We have seen with the
Ukraine crisis that Moscow is determined to put a halt to the advance of NATO
(and naturally, the United States and its allies) towards its own areas of
influence. But a question difficult to answer is to what degree the United
States truly wants to go in right under Russia's nose.

One important rubric within this great search for a balance has been Iran. The
number of those who believed that Obama was going to achieve a lasting agreement
with Tehran was not at all small. And the messages that [Iranian President]
Hasan Ruhani put out since he was first elected brought about an expectation
that this path would be easier than in the past.

At the point that has now been reached, we are seeing, agreement with Iran
aside, a move aimed at Russia that seeks to "squeeze it completely into a
corner" with a reduction in oil prices. The Washington administration no doubt
must be seeing that it is not possible to sit down at the table with Tehran
without adding Moscow as well to the calculations. On the other hand, the
petroleum move, which is directly impacting Russia and Iran, in addition to
alienating these two countries, also pushes them closer towards the Eurasian
axis.

If there is going to be a going back from here and a move to a Republican and
stronger neocon[servative] administration again, and if the Iran issue is going
to turn once again into a situation of uncertainty about an immanent attack by
Israel, then it will be the case both that a sad end awaits Obama, and that the
world balances will take shape in a period that will be much bloodier than we
had expected.

[Media mogul] Rupert Murdoch, who was at one time an important player in the
international system, conveying the message that "most Muslims may be peaceful,
but they have to be considered responsible as well until the growing jihadist
cancer among them is recognized and eliminated," is a harbinger of just such a
period.

The question that is not yet talked about, but which is shortly going to come
before the two major powers of continental Europe [referring to Germany and
France], is this: How far are they going to be able to stand up against the
alliance containing Russia, Iran, and certainly China, in the name of the United
States and NATO? The first area in which Russia is going to respond to the
"energy" card being played against it in a very harsh way is the European Union.

Apart from saying that Germany will be more robust with its political and
economic balances, in such a showdown, difficult days await the expanding
borders of the EU, which particularly in recent years have been expanding in an
uncontrolled way.

The message conveyed by French President Francois Hollande following the attacks
should of course be treated as extremely important, and should be supported. But
the fact that the French state's operational reflex in the face of the attacks
was bad, such as to serve the people behind this plan, is disturbing.

As for Turkey, it is displaying a stance following the incidents that is
appropriate both to its strength and to its ambitions; let us leave an
assessment of this to a subsequent column.

Source: Star website, Istanbul, in Turkish 12 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 14, 2015 Wednesday

Latvian paper views effects of terrorist attacks in France

LENGTH: 731 words


Text of report by Latvian newspaper Latvijas Avize

[Commentary by Uldis Smits: "No Submission"]

On the same day when terrorists in Paris attacked the offices of the satirical
magazine Charlie Hebdo, a novel by Michel Houellebecq, "Submission," was
released. Far before the release date, it was called scandalous. The novel
depicts a situation in which the 2022 French presidential election is won by a
candidate from the Muslim Brotherhood, but the fact is that the scandalous
nature of the novel is hidden elsewhere. The society that is depicted by the
author receives the changes with a relieved sign and even optimism, because
unemployment is reduced (women stay at home), there is order on the streets, and
people no longer have to think about serious problems. To be sure, this scenario
of the death of the French Republic will not come to pass, at least in 2022, and
Houellebecq himself has admitted that that is so. Society has no plan of
rejecting what the French call republican values. These include democratic
freedoms, the role of the state language, and separation of c! hurch and state.
The mass demonstrations that were organized after the terrorist attack proved
that citizens want to defend their national values.

Situation in Germany

The events that shook up France also, of course, had a powerful echo in Germany,
where since last October, demonstrations have been organized each Monday,
primarily in Dresden, by the movement "Patriotic Europeans Against Western
Islamization" or, to use the German abbreviation, PEGIDA. The terrorism in Paris
may increase the popularity of that movement, though its critics doubt whether
PEGIDA really represents Western interests or others. Neither is it quite clear
why the originator of the movement, Lutz Bachmann, who has been tried in the
past for robbery and drug trafficking, has suddenly become a patriotic European.
He himself refuses to talk to the press, which he considers to be "mendacious
and a profession that has sold itself." In any event, the number of participants
in the demonstrations has increased from a few hundreds to a few tens of
thousands. In Dresden, which is the main home for these events, only 2 percent
or so of residents are foreigners, with Muslims! representing an even lower
percentage. Migrants do not love Eastern Germany, apart from Berlin. Meanwhile,
lands in the western part of the country have experienced an unprecedented
influx of migrants, though people there do not complain much, because German
companies need new workers. That is why the governing elite rejects the
"Patriotic Europeans," with the only party that supports the movement to some
degree being the Euro-skeptic "Alternative for Germany." Another issue is the
burden of the Nazi past, but a more thorough discussion will have to be held in
Berlin. It is unlikely that the government will be able to stop with the
announcement that Islamist extremists have nothing to do with Islam. It might
just as well claim that the Crusades and the Inquisition had nothing to do with
Christianity.

Role of Hateful Ideology

Compatibility among people of various religions, including those who have no
religion, is important for the future, and this raises the demand of not
permitting damaging ideologies in Europe that are based on hatred. At the end of
the day, this is a responsibility for Europe's politicians, as opposed to
immigrants and refugees who are fleeing violence and fanaticism -- Christians
from Syria and Iraq, for example, or Muslims who leave their homes to breathe
more freely, not to spread Islamic fundamentalism. It turns out, however, that
Islamic fundamentalism also attacks them in Europe, because it is often upheld
in the relevant "communities" with the quiet blessing of local authorities. This
is not least in the name of economic and geopolitical advantages. Persian Gulf
oil monarchies, for instance, are investing capital in Western Europe and
particularly France, but at the same time they have also been "investing" in the
proclamation of radical elements of Islam for some t! ime now. These
"investments," as we all know, are worshipped more than any religion today. The
price of democratic values, by contrast, becomes evident only when there are
deadly threats that force us to realize that we must not yield before them if we
are to protect our freedoms.

Source: Latvijas Avize, Riga, in Latvian 13 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 14, 2015 Wednesday

Spain averting "numerous" terrorist attacks, says interior minister

LENGTH: 461 words


Text of report by Spanish newspaper ABC website, on 14 January

[Unattributed report: "Spanish Interior Minister Fernandez Diaz: 'Spain Has
Averted Many Jihadist Attacks'"]

Spanish Interior Minister Jorge Fernandez Diaz on Tuesday [13 January] said that
"Spain is doing its duty in the fight against jihadist terrorism," something
that has helped to prevent "numerous terrorist attacks since the Madrid train
bombings on 11 March 2004 thanks to the arrest of Arab jihadists and the
dismantling of their criminal networks."

Fernandez Diaz made this statement after taking part in an event in Madrid's
Canillas headquarters to commemorate the creation of the National Police. The
interior minister was asked by reporters about the measures that the government
would take to prevent jihadist attacks, something that the interior and justice
ministers will discuss with PSOE [Spanish Socialist Workers' Party]
representatives at a meeting this afternoon to try to agree on joint
initiatives.

In this regard, the interior minister highlighted the reforms of the Penal Code
that the government is promoting to fight jihadism, defended the European
Passenger Name Record (PNR), and stressed the importance that the European
leaders attach to the promotion of a "counter-narrative" to the one used by
Islamist terrorists on the Internet.

However, the interior minister said that "Spain is doing its duty" in the fight
against Islamist violence, as proved by the fact that Spain has not experienced
"any other terrorist attack" of this kind since the Madrid train bombings on 11
March 2004.

Spain is not free of risk

He also pointed out that, since the Madrid train bombings in 2004," numerous
jihadist networks had been dismantled and numerous people had been arrested and
brought to justice." "Therefore, numerous terrorists attacks before and after
the Madrid train bombings have been averted."

Similarly, he also pointed out that this does not mean that Spaniards are "free
of risk," since "there is not such a thing as absolute security." "We are
working hard, so that the law-governed state can respond appropriately to this
threat and ensure the safety and freedom of our citizens to the best of its
ability," Fernandez Diaz said.

As for the meeting that the interior minister will hold this afternoon to agree
with PSOE representatives on measures against Islamist terrorism, Fernandez Diaz
said that he hopes to reach "an agreement and a consensus" with the political
party led by Pedro Sanchez. "I have no doubt of the PSOE's sense of
statesmanship," said the interior minister, who concluded that if European
leaders are bringing closer their positions on radical Islam, "how cannot we
reach an agreement in our own country?"

Source: ABC website, Madrid, in Spanish 14 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     January 14, 2015 Wednesday 8:25 AM GMT

Charlie Hebdo: Magazine is published for first time since devastating Paris
terror attacks

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 460 words


SATIRICAL magazine Charlie Hebdo has sold out across France after its first
release since the Paris terror attacks.

Three million copies of the mag - which has a cartoon of the Prophet Mohammed on
the front - were printed.

It is exactly one week since Islamic terrorists Said and Cherif Kouachi stormed
the magazine's HQ, murdering 12 people in cold blood.

Five of Charlie Hebdo's cartoonists - including its editor Stephane Charbonnier
- were killed in the attack.

People queued from 6am to get their hands on the historic issue.

"It was incredible," said one woman working at a Paris newspaper stand.

"I had a queue of 60-70 people waiting for me when I opened.

"I've never seen anything like it. All my 450 copies were sold out in 15
minutes."

Copies of the magazine are already selling on Ebay for over £100 as people rush
to get their hands on it.

An additional two million copies will now be printed in an attempt to satisfy
demand.

brightcove.createExperiences;

A Paris news vendor

Part of an editorial in the magazine reads: "For the past week, Charlie, an
atheist newspaper, has achieved more miracles than all the saints and prophets
combined.

"The one we are most proud of is that you have in your hands the newspaper that
we always made."

French and British Muslim groups have urged their communities to stay calm and
to resist "emotive reactions" to the magazine.

Around 2,000 copies of Charlie Hebdo have gone on sale in the UK with radical
cleric Anjem Choudary describing the front cover as an "act of war".

"It's not just a cartoon, it's insulting, it's ridiculing, it's provoking."

Meanwhile an east London coffee shop owner vowed he would not be cowed after
receiving death threats over a "Je Suis Charlie" sign outside his cafe.

An intruder demanded Adel Deflilaux, a French Muslim, take down the sign outside
his shop on Brick Lane.

Adel tried to calm the man down but he refused to leave.

"He said 'I believe these people deserve to be killed and anyone supporting them
deserves also to be killed'," the 32-year-old explained.

"I was all alone and started getting scared. He was a dangerous person. He said
if I didn't take down the sign he would smash up the shop, and then he just
left."

Related articles France's most wanted woman: Paris terror suspect caught on CCTV
for first time Terror blitz on Britain! Gunmen to go on rampage as killer's
girlfriend is spotted Charlie Hebdo: Magazine WILL publish Mohammed cartoon on
cover as terror hunt continues Fake BBC website claims Charlie Hebdo attack was
a HOAX Shocking new footage emerges of Charlie Hebdo gunmen in Paris police
shootout Israel vows retribution against Islamic State as Paris terror victims
are laid to rest

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     January 14, 2015 Wednesday 7:46 AM GMT

Charlie Hebdo: Live updates as first edition of magazine is published since
Paris terror attack;
A WEEK after the attack on the offices of the satirical magazine which sparked
three days of terror in Paris, Charlie Hebdo will hit the shelves today
featuring a controversial image of the Prophet Muhammad on its front cover.

BYLINE: By Jessica Best

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 2 words


Charlie Hebdo

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                           January 14, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I hid under the sink, a terrorist was 50cm away. I could see his shadow;
POIGNANT TEARS AND TRIBUTES FOR VICTIMS OF TERROR ATTACKS ; Brave worker tells
of siege ordeal as Charlie Hebdo gunmen planned their last stand

BYLINE: ANDY LINES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 379 words


A GRAPHIC designer yesterday told for the first time how he hid underneath a
sink while his boss was held hostage by the Charlie Hebdo killers just yards
away.

Lilian Lepere, 27, revealed how one of the Kouachi brothers drank water from the
tap just inches from his head - but didn't hear his stifled breathing.

His ordeal happened at the printworks where Cherif Kouachi and Said Kouachi made
their final stand on Friday - 48 hours after murdering 12 people at the offices
of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris. Yesterday, Lilian broke down in
tears as he spoke on TV about his hours of hell - and of his eternal thanks to
his manager, Michel Catalano, for giving him the opportunity to hide.

Michel, the owner of the printing business in Dammartin-En-Goele, north of
Paris, warned Lilian - the only employee in the building - that the gunmen were
at the entrance. They were armed with Kalashnikovs and a rocket launcher.

After seeing them through the door, Michel told his worker to hide.

Lilian said: "I hid under a sink in a cabinet with two hinged doors 70cm by 90cm
and 40cm deep.

"Most of the time they were in the boss's office next door. I heard shooting and
then one of them opened the cupboard next to mine. Then he opened the fridge. He
was only 50cm away. I thought he was going to open every cupboard.

"He took a drink from the sink and I could see his shadow. My back was against
the pipe and I could feel the water flowing.

"It was like you see in the movies. At that point, the brain stops thinking, the
heart stops beating, you stop breathing." Michel was later freed unhurt and
Lilian remained unseen throughout the siege.

He texted his father - who was with the police outside - saying: "I am hidden on
the first floor. I think they have killed everyone. Tell the police to
intervene."

Prosecutors say Lilian provided other vital information to them.

Meanwhile, the EU's crime-fighting chief last night warned that Europe faces its
worst terror threat since 9/11 as up to 5000 homegrown jihadis plot attacks.

Europol boss Rob Wainwright told MPs that in addition to returning fighters from
Iraq and Syria, there is a serious threat from "sleeping networks".

It was like the movies.. at that point the brain stops, the heart stops, you
stop breathing LILIAN LEPERE

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COURAGE Lilian defied his fears to provide crucial information to
police

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                           January 14, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I hid under the sink, a terrorist was 50cm away. I could see his shadow;
POIGNANT TEARS AND TRIBUTES FOR VICTIMS OF TERROR ATTACKS ; Brave worker tells
of siege ordeal as Charlie Hebdo gunmen planned their last stand

BYLINE: ANDY LINES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 379 words


A GRAPHIC designer yesterday told for the first time how he hid underneath a
sink while his boss was held hostage by the Charlie Hebdo killers just yards
away.

Lilian Lepere, 27, revealed how one of the Kouachi brothers drank water from the
tap just inches from his head - but didn't hear his stifled breathing.

His ordeal happened at the printworks where Cherif Kouachi and Said Kouachi made
their final stand on Friday - 48 hours after murdering 12 people at the offices
of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris. Yesterday, Lilian broke down in
tears as he spoke on TV about his hours of hell - and of his eternal thanks to
his manager, Michel Catalano, for giving him the opportunity to hide.

Michel, the owner of the printing business in Dammartin-En-Goele, north of
Paris, warned Lilian - the only employee in the building - that the gunmen were
at the entrance. They were armed with Kalashnikovs and a rocket launcher.

After seeing them through the door, Michel told his worker to hide.

Lilian said: "I hid under a sink in a cabinet with two hinged doors 70cm by 90cm
and 40cm deep.

"Most of the time they were in the boss's office next door. I heard shooting and
then one of them opened the cupboard next to mine. Then he opened the fridge. He
was only 50cm away. I thought he was going to open every cupboard.

"He took a drink from the sink and I could see his shadow. My back was against
the pipe and I could feel the water flowing.

"It was like you see in the movies. At that point, the brain stops thinking, the
heart stops beating, you stop breathing." Michel was later freed unhurt and
Lilian remained unseen throughout the siege.

He texted his father - who was with the police outside - saying: "I am hidden on
the first floor. I think they have killed everyone. Tell the police to
intervene."

Prosecutors say Lilian provided other vital information to them.

Meanwhile, the EU's crime-fighting chief last night warned that Europe faces its
worst terror threat since 9/11 as up to 5000 homegrown jihadis plot attacks.

Europol boss Rob Wainwright told MPs that in addition to returning fighters from
Iraq and Syria, there is a serious threat from "sleeping networks".

It was like the movies.. at that point the brain stops, the heart stops, you
stop breathing LILIAN LEPERE

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COURAGE Lilian defied his fears to provide crucial information to
police

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  ENP Newswire

                           January 14, 2015 Wednesday

-Alstom takes part in the 'Peace walk' in Moscow for the victims of the
terrorist attack in France

LENGTH: 95 words


ENP Newswire - 14 January 2015

Release date- 13012015 - On 11 January 2015 Philippe Pegorier, Country President
of Alstom in Russia, participated with the French Ambassador Jean-Maurice Ripert
in the 'Peace walk' for the victims of the terrorist attack in France of January
7 - 9, 2015, organized in Moscow.

Alstom offer its deepest and most sincere condolences to the relatives and
friends of the victims, journalistic community, as well as to all French
citizens.

Contact:

Tel: +44 1785 250070

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk
]

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: ENPN


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                    January 14, 2015 Wednesday 11:06 PM GMT

French police investigate fifth suspect in Paris terror attacks

BYLINE: Sarah Ann Harris

LENGTH: 228 words


FRENCH police are now investigating a fifth suspect in last week's terror
attacks, it has been reported.

EPA

A police officer outside the Jewish supermarket where four hostages were killed
by the gunman

French authorities have reportedly identified the accomplice of Amedy Coulibaly,
whose killed four people in a siege on a Parisien kosher supermarket last
Friday.

Forces are now looking for a man from a suburb of the French capital who they
believe may have acted as Coulibaly's driver, according to police sources.

The search is still on for the killer's partner, Hayat Boumeddiene.

The French capital was left in chaos last week after the attacks.

Islamist militants stormed the offices of Charlie Hebdo magazine, gunned down a
police officer and took hostages at a Jewish grocery store.

A total of 17 people, including journalists, shoppers and police officers, were
killed.

Gunmen Cherif and Said Kouachi and Amedy Coulibaly were all killed by police.

Related articles Dramatic new footage shows Charlie Hebdo gunmen moments after
carrying out attack Turkey BAN people from seeing Charlie Hebdo front cover
online as magazine sells out Controversial comedian Dieudonné charged for
allegedly defending terrorism France's most wanted woman Hayat Boumeddiene had
sister who 'lived' in UK Is this the future? Jewish schools in UK tighten
security amid terror attacks in Paris

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     January 14, 2015 Wednesday 1:05 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo: Al-Qaeda in Yemen claim responsibility for terror attack in video
message

BYLINE: Rebecca Perring

LENGTH: 448 words


A TOP leader of Yemen's al-Qaeda branch has claimed responsibility for last
week's terror attack on French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo and warned the
West of more "tragedies and terror."

EPA

Nasr al-Ansi speaks in video message

Nasr al-Ansi, a commander of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula - or AQAP as the
branch is known - appeared in an 11-minute video, saying that the massacre at
Charlie Hebdo was in "vengeance for the prophet."

Twelve people were killed when fundamentalist brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi
stormed the offices of the satirical magazine over its depictions of Prophet
Mohammed, which is considered an insult to the Muslim religion.

After the killings, one of the brothers was filmed shouting: "We are avenging
the Prophet."

The online video, entitled a 'A message regarding the Blessed Battle of Paris'
was released via the Al-Malahem media arm of the group.

EPA

Al-Ansi praised the brothers who killed 12 people at Charlie Hebdo

In it Al-Ansi said France belongs to the "party of Satan" and warned of more
"tragedies and terror."

Al-Ansi said the strike was carried out in "implementation" of the order of
overall al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahri.

He claimed Yemen's al-Qaeda branch "chose the target, laid out the plan and
financed the operation."

AQAP itself is led by Nasser al-Wuhayshi, who is Zawahri's number two in the
terror network's global hierarchy.

"We did it in compliance with the command of Allah and supporting His Messenger,
peace be upon Him," Al-Ansi said.

 In the 11-minute rant, he also described the gunmen of the horrific attacks as
"heroes of Islam" and called for young Muslims to "rise up."

REUTERS

Hundreds of people queue to get their latest copy of Charlie Hebdo

Al Ansi went on to describe the Paris shootings " as a new turning point in
history of confrontation" before praising Amedy Coulibaly, an associate of the
Kouachi brothers, who killed four Jewish hostages after he launched a separate
attack on a Kosher supermarket in Paris.

The revelation comes as copies of Charlie Hebdo are selling on eBay for more
than £1,500 this morning, with the print run increased to five million copies.

The latest front cover includes a cartoon of the Prophet Mohammed, which has
prompted Muslim leaders around the world to urge calm and "a reflection of the
teachings of the gentle and merciful character of the prophet".

Related articles Muslim leaders around the world call for 'calm' over Charlie
Hebdo front cover Charlie Hebdo magazine sells out in minutes as copies sell on
eBay for more than £500 Mayor of Rotterdam Ahmed Aboutaleb is an important voice
on terror Controversial comedian Dieudonné arrested for allegedly defending
terrorism

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 14, 2015 Wednesday 9:49 PM GMT

Argentinian president accused of covering up details about the country's worst
terrorist attack;
Federal prosecutor accuses Cristina Fernández de Kirchner of attempting to cover
up Iran's involvement in the bombing of a Jewish community centre in Buenos
Aires in 1994

BYLINE: Uki Goñi in Buenos Aires

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 588 words


An Argentinian federal prosecutor has accused the country's president, Cristina
Fernández de Kirchner, of attempting to cover up Iran's involvement in the
bombing of a Jewish community centre in 1994, in which 85 people were killed.

Prosecutor Alberto Nisman said on Wednesday that he had issued a request that
judge Ariel Lijo interrogate Fernández and the foreign minister, Héctor
Timerman, "for being authors and accomplices of an aggravated cover-up and
obstruction of justice regarding the Iranians accused of the Amia terrorist
attack".

In a 300-page presentation to a Buenos Aires court, Nisman alleged that the
president conducted secret negotiations with Iran through non-diplomatic
channels in 2013, and offered to cover up the involvement of Iranian officials
in return for oil to ease Argentina's chronic energy deficit. Under the deal,
the oil would be exchanged for Argentinian grain, Nisma said.

The attack on the Argentinian Jewish Mutual Association centre was the country's
worst ever terror attack, and remains unresolved. Nisman's investigation into
the Amia bombing reached a dead end some years ago after Iran refused to hand
over a number of officials, including the former Iranian cultural attaché in
Argentina, Mohsen Rabbani, who is suspected of masterminding the deadly 1994
attack.

The Jewish community in Argentina expressed concern at the accusation. "We are
very worried," said Amia's president, Leonardo Jmelnitzky. "We really did not
expect something like this."

Nisman said his accusations were based on phone taps on close allies of
Fernández, who he said conspired in a "sophisticated criminal plan" to negotiate
with Rabbani himself. In exchange for the "oil for grains" deal, Argentina would
cancel an international Interpol arrest warrant against Rabbani and other senior
Iranian officials.

"Iran was Argentina's main buyer and now it's buying almost nothing," the
prosecutor quotes Rabbani as saying in an intercepted 2013 telephone
conversation with an Iranian link who had contact with Fernández allies in
Buenos Aires.

"That could change. Here [in Iran] there are some sectors of the government
who've told me they are willing to sell oil to Argentina ... and also to buy
weapons."

In 2013, Argentina signed a controversial agreement with Iran to set up a joint
commission to investigate the blast. Nisman claims that deal was a direct result
of the "oil for grains" secret deal that he alleges Fernández sought.

In that memorandum, Iran agreed to set up a truth commission on the bombing in
return for Argentina closing down the judicial investigation and cancelling the
Interpol warrants while the commission worked.

The agreement, which was roundly condemned by Jewish community leaders, was
approved by Argentina's Congress but foundered after Iran failed to confirm it,
apparently because the Interpol warrants were not lifted in time. It was finally
declared unconstitutional by the federal appeals court.

Nisman claims that his accusation is based on "irrefutable proof" against the
president, contained in a 300-page report presented in court on Wednesday
morning, and that it is based on two years of investigations and wiretaps
conducted by sources within Argentina's Side secret service.

The accusation was dismissed as "ridiculous" by the presidential secretary,
Aníbal Fernández.

The attack against the Amia followed the earlier bombing of the Israeliembassy
in Buenos Aires in 1992, in which 29 people, including four Israeli civilians,
were killed - a case which also remains unresolved.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 14, 2015 Wednesday 7:31 PM GMT

Solidarity and divisions in the wake of terrorist attacks in France

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1118 words


Western governments have played the major role in turning much of the Middle
East into a cauldron of blood, and yet we respond with what can only be
described as hysteria when affected by minor splashes. The brutal killing of the
Charlie Hebdo journalists, of the Jewish victims (the most heinous of the
killings in my opinion, given the history of persecution experienced by French
Jews) and of the police are actually small beer compared with what western
governments have been responsible for. They are tragedies for the victims and
for their families and friends, but they are not by any stretch of the
imagination a serious threat to western civilisation.

Nevertheless, they have provided a convenient occasion for a positive carnival
of self-pity and self-congratulation. Paris is the capital of the world! What
must the people of Gaza think of this posturing, posturing in which, quite
shamefully, Benjamin Netanyahu was allowed to participate. And as for the west's
pen being mightier than the Islamist's sword, what nonsense. In the real world
it is the west's drones, stealth bombers and smart bombs that are far mightier
than any terrorist's Kalashnikov. With all the bloodshed that is going on every
day in the Middle East, we have by some strange alchemy managed to cast
ourselves as the victims, bloodied but still brave and defiant in the face of a
minor terrorist threat that has been exaggerated into some sort of existential
Islamist onslaught. John NewsingerBrighton

· This pussyfooting around theology is becoming frustrating. Giles Fraser's
article ( The cartoonists were smarter theologians than the jihadis, 11 January)
is the first I've read in your paper that unpicks the cod-theology of this
latest group of young and immature terrorists. But there is much more to be said
and discussed that is relevant to our current problems. A secular British media
should not shy away from discussing modern theological beliefs. It is, as my
tutor at university once told me, a necessary precursor to political discourse.
Please take all of our communities seriously and engage in a discussion of their
beliefs, whether you agree with them or not. David EdgeworthWoodford Green,
Essex

· After the great flood of journalistic output resulting from the horrendous
acts in Paris last week, it was a great relief to finally read someone prepared
to take a deeper, less emotive look at the perpetrators and their motivations (
Gary Younge: This polarised debate won't help us move on from Charlie Hebdo, 12
January). That the many young men who go to Syria to fight for Islamic State or
claim allegiance to various al-Qaida affiliates have, to them, justifiable
motivations should not be denied by the use of reductive terms such as terrorism
or criminality. What makes these young men so prey to Islamic radicalisation?

Could the answer, as Younge goes some way to recognising, be found in a nexus
where extreme versions of Islam are seen by some to act as a counter-balance to
or even a refuge from the extreme form of capitalism increasingly dominating the
globe, the marginalisation and sense of frustration this creates across whole
swaths of society, and the diet of real and imagined victimisation of Muslims in
countries from Iraq to India available via TV and the internet. If we wish to
cure an illness, it is important to remain calm and analytical in face of the
symptoms in order that we are better able to identify the causes. Peter
HudsonDirector, Rainbow Development in Africa

· Monday's Guardian (12 January) had pictures of "17 people killed in Paris".
But 20 died. The difference is the word "victim". The three terrorists are also
victims. They are today's unemployed youth, the dregs of every big city, without
hope and without a mission. Doubling security forces on the streets won't solve
their problem. They need jobs and, in order to get that job when it comes along,
they need good education. That's where Charlie should spend his money. Michèle
YoungBrighton

· The headline of Natalie Nougayrède's front-page article "A nation united
against terror" ( 12 January ) referred of course to France in its horror and
grief at recent events, but it equally could have referred to the countries of
the EU who came out in support. If ever an event demonstrated the power and
solidarity of nations working together, rather than singly and individually,
then the rallies of unity in France demonstrated this. Nations pulling together
in this way, showing tolerance to all, give the lie to the arguments of those
who trash this unique institution. Do Nigel Farage and other Eurosceptics who
favour separation have anything valuable or relevant to say after this? Janet
DaviesHartley Wintney, Hampshire

· Recent events in France have done much to highlight the role of the cartoonist
in political satire. Another forgotten example that seems particularly apposite
is that of Naji al-Ali, who was assassinated on the streets of London in 1987.
Yet there appears to have been no recent mention of him or his work in any of
the various media outlets. His reputation largely rested on the character
Handala, depicted as an orphaned child who became a symbol for the poor and
dispossessed, in particular the Palestinian people. His work often invoked or
offended the sensibilities of both the Arab and Israeli leadership, in equal
measure. It is a reminder that while the pen may be mightier than the sword, it
may require no less bravery to wield it. Graham OgdenDundee

· Phoned our local newsagent, superstore and WH Smith to ask if they will be
stocking this week's special edition of Charlie Hebdo. In each case they barely
knew what I was on about, two of them asking me to spell the name of the
publication. Precious little awareness, let alone solidarity, from retailers
here, it seems. David HemsworthHaywards Heath, West Sussex

· My Dutch-Moroccan Muslim in-laws are overwhelmed with fear and confusion by
the aftermath of the Charlie Hebdo outrage. Dare they stay in the cosmopolitan
city of Amsterdam where most of them were born and where I - a British Jew - met
their oldest brother? Or are they to be driven out by a rising tide of contempt
for their beliefs and culture? Supporters of Charlie Hebdo's front-page cartoon
call it an act of defiance in support of freedom of speech. How have we allowed
defence of a good principle to degenerate into self-righteous insistence on a
right to insult millions of powerless people? Naomi Wimborne-IdrissiWoodford
Green, Essex

· Re the words "All is forgiven" on Charlie Hebdo's cover. It's already been
said, over 2,000 years ago, and in the Middle East. "Father forgive them", and
then He added, "they know not what they do". Julia PhillipsBath

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 14, 2015 Wednesday 6:47 PM GMT

Judge denies Tsarnaev lawyers' motion to delay trial in wake of Charlie Hebdo
attack;
Second stage of jury selection scheduled to start Tuesday in Boston Marathon
suspect's trial, despite legal team claiming 'striking' similarities between
attacksBoston Marathon bombing: how the city coped with its deadly terror
attackFrom 'Boston Strong' to 'Je suis Charlie': can bomb suspect get a fair
trial?

BYLINE: Nicky Woolf in New York

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 248 words


The judge in the trial of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev has denied another motion by the
defence to delay the trial in the wake of the attack on Charlie Hebdo.

The second stage of jury selection in the trial of Tsarnaev, who is accused of
involvement in the Boston Marathon bombing, is scheduled to start on Thursday.

Tsarnaev's legal team quoted sources which said the parallels between the
attacks in Paris and the 2013 Boston bombing were striking, and said that the
similarities - and their psychological effects - "cannot be lost on potential
jurors".

"Even though the panels have been instructed not to read media reports about
this case", the defence said, "the probability of exposure to reports of the
Paris events, which began before all of the jurors were instructed, is
exceedingly high".

On Tuesday, they requested that jury selection be suspended for "at least one
month".

However, on Wednesday, Judge George O'Toole denied their motion, saying that his
review of the jurors' questionnaires had "confirmed rather than undermined" his
judgement that a fair and impartial jury can be chosen.

Previous such motions by the defence, including the request that the trial be
held in a federal court outside Massachusetts, have been consistently denied.

The second part of the jury selection process, "voir dire," is when lawyers for
the defence and the prosecution, as well as the judge, cross-examine potential
jurors to attempt to determine their ability to provide a fair and balanced
verdict.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 14, 2015 Wednesday 4:57 PM GMT

Why did the world ignore Boko Haram's Baga attacks?;
As media coverage focused on the Paris terror attacks last week, more than 2000
Nigerians were reported to have been killed by Islamist militants. What makes
one massacre more newsworthy than another?

BYLINE: Maeve Shearlaw

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1063 words


France spent the weekend coming to terms with last week's terror attacks in
Paris that left 17 dead. The country mourned, and global leaders joined an
estimated 3.7 million people on its streets to march in a show of unity.

In Nigeria, another crisis was unfolding, as reports came through of an
estimated 2,000 casualties after an attack by Boko Haram militants on the town
of Baga in the north-eastern state of Borno. Amnesty International described as
the terror group's "deadliest massacre" to date, and local defence groups said
they had given up counting the bodies left lying on the streets.

Reporting in northern Nigeria is notoriously difficult; journalists have been
targeted by Boko Haram, and, unlike in Paris, people on the ground are isolated
and struggle with access to the internet and other communications. Attacks by
Boko Haram have disrupted connections further, meaning that there is an absence
of an online community able to share news, photos and video reports of news as
it unfolds.

But reports of the massacre were coming through and as the world's media focused
its attention on Paris, some questioned why events in Nigeria were almost
ignored.

On Twitter, Max Abrahms, a terrorism analyst, tweeted : "It's shameful how the
2K people killed in Boko Haram's biggest massacre gets almost no media
coverage."

Musician Nitin Sawhney said : "Very moving watching events in Paris - wish the
world media felt equally outraged by this recent news too."

"Mom Blogger" @Mom101 asked: "How is this not the lead story on every single
news network, every Twitter newsfeed right now?" That sentiment was echoed by a
number of Guardian readers over the weekend.

So why did the Paris attacks receive more coverage than the Boko Haram killings?


"I am Charlie, but I am Baga too"

"I am Charlie, but I am Baga too," wrote Simon Allison for the Daily Maverick, a
partner on the Guardian Africa network. "There are massacres and there are
massacres" he said, arguing that "it may be the 21st century, but African lives
are still deemed less newsworthy - and, by implication, less valuable - than
western lives".

Allison recognises the challenges in reporting - "the nearest journalists are
hundreds of kilometres away" - but also points to the significance of the
attack: taking control of Baga, "Boko Haram effectively controls Borno state in
its entirety. These aren't just terrorists: they are becoming a de facto state."
Even more reason for the world to take notice.

But the blame does not just lie with western media; there was little African
coverage either, said Allison. No leaders were condemning the attacks, nor did
any talk of a solidarity movement, he said, adding that "our outrage and
solidarity over the Paris massacre is also a symbol of how we as Africans
neglect Africa's own tragedies, and prioritise western lives over our own."

Silence from Nigeria's politicians

Many pointed to the palpable silence of many of Nigeria's politicians. Last
week, Nigeria's president, Goodluck Jonathan, expressed his condolences for the
victims of France but stayed silent on the Boko Haram attacks on Baga.

Media analyst Ethan Zuckerman said that the president is "understandably wary of
discussing Boko Haram, as it reminds voters that the conflict has erupted under
his management and that his government has been unable to subdue the terror
group ". Nigeria's elections are set to take place on 14 February. The president
was also criticised for celebrating his niece Ine's wedding over weekend, in the
aftermath of the killings.

Elnathan John, a Nigerian writer and lawyer who has changed his Twitter identity
to "I am Baga" in solidarity, shared a tweet from Nigeria's finance minister,
Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who also expressed condolences over the Paris attacks but
made no mention of the events in Baga.

He also pointed to comments on the official Twitter account of Ahmadu Adamu
Muazu, from the ruling People's Democratic party, who looked to downplay the
death toll: "We know it's a political period so some of this [sic] things are
expected".

Muazu has since taken to the account again to say he has been working with the
security services to ensure that "peace will soon be restored" to the people in
Baga and other regions in the north-east of the country.

'The west is ignoring Boko Haram'

Ignatius Kaigama, the Catholic archbishop of Jos in central Nigeria - an area
which has also suffered terror attacks - added his voice to criticism of the
west.

Speaking to the BBC, he argued that Nigeria could not confront the threat from
Boko Haram alone. "It is a monumental tragedy. It has saddened all of Nigeria.
But... we seem to be helpless," he said. "Because if we could stop Boko Haram,
we would have done it right away. But they continue to attack, and kill and
capture territories... with such impunity."

Over the weekend Boko Haram was also blamed for a suicide attack in a market in
Borno state that left 16 dead in Yobe state. Kaigama called the for
international community to show the same spirit and resolve against Boko Haram
as it had done after the attacks in France.

#BagaTogether

Echoing the #bringbackourgirls hashtag, which was set up to call for the release
of the 200 schoolgirls kidnapped by Boko Haram in April, some have taken to
social media to show their support for the people in Baga.

Using a number of hashtags including #BagaTogether, #weareallbaga and
#pray4baga, Nigerians and others have posted their support for the affected
area. Some objected to disputes over the total death toll, yet to be confirmed,
getting in the way of the real issues, some objected to the scant media
coverage, others simply called for solidarity.

Why did the media ignore Baga?

If you live in Nigeria, or are interested in this topic, we'd like to hear from
you. What makes one massacre more newsworthy than another? Should media outlets
have done more? And how can social media solidarity help? Add your thoughts in
the comments below or on Twitter @GuardianAfrica.

· This article was amended on 13 January 2014 to include the full name and
profession of Elnathan John. This article was further amended on 14 January 2014
because an earlier version said Goodluck Jonathan celebrated his daughter's
wedding over the weekend. This has been corrected to say he attended his niece
Ine's wedding.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    January 14, 2015 Wednesday 11:40 PM GMT

Paris terror attacks: Turks piece together missing days of deli gunman's
partner;
Officials blame France over Hayat Boumedienne's movements

BYLINE: Isabel Hunter

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 587 words


The gloomy backstreets of Istanbul's Kadikoy have hidden all traces of Hayat
Boumedienne - France's most wanted woman.

Turkish police, desperate for clues of the 26-year-old's last movements before
disappearing into Syria, have raided her last known locations - one of which was
revealed this week to be a dreary Istanbul hotel.

Read more:Paris shootings: 200,000 sign petition for Muslim heroParis terror
attacks: France's Prime Minister seeks tighter surveillanceCharlie Hebdo: Inside
the first edition since the Paris massacre

Kadikoy, a bustling Istanbul neighbourhood popular with students for its
alternative scene, is used to tourists seeking bargains. Lying on the Anatolian
side of the Bosphorus, it is just a 20-minute ferry ride to the city's main
attractions.

The no-frills Bade Hotel lies hidden from the hubbub and across from an
industrial railway support building and car park. The hotel owner declines to
comment "on the advice of lawyers," who have been enlisted in the face of press
attention. The hotel's CCTV tapes have been seized by police.

Warning: Viewers may find this video distressing

Around the corner, however, Cem runs a 24-hour bakkal - a Turkish corner shop -
and is sure the French jihadi was holed up in the hotel. She is believed to have
hunkered down, venturing out just twice during her stay. On one trip,
Boumedienne - the reported wife of Amedy Coulibaly - the Parisian Kosher deli
gunman - is said to have bought the Turkish SIM card that was last tracked on
the Syrian border on 8 January, near the Isis-controlled town of Tel Abyad.

The last known pictures of Boumedienne leaked on Monday is CCTV footage
purportedly of her at passport control at Istanbul's Sabiha Gokcen Airport,
accompanied by a man, thought to be 23-year-old Mehdi Sabri Belhoucine.

Mevlut Cavusoglu, the Turkish Foreign Minister, has since confirmed that
Boumedienne stayed in Istanbul between 2 and 4 January, before entering Syria.
"She arrived in Turkey from Madrid ... and we have video recordings of her at
the airport," he said. "She stayed in a hotel in Kadikoy with company and she
travelled to Syria on 8 January. We know this through phone recordings."

In the airport CCTV, the woman decreed to be "armed and dangerous" stands calmly
as her passport is stamped alongside her companion.

According to Yeni Safak, a Turkish pro-government newspaper, the couple were
traced on arrival because Belhoucine was marked as being suspicious. The
couple's French passports were enough to alert the authorities and their details
were passed to the French government.

In pictures: Kosher grocery attack in Paris

The official border gate between Turkey and Tel Abyad is open for Syrian
citizens, although Turkish officials have said she crossed "illegally".

The Turkish press continue to speculate on her route through Turkey and claim
she stayed in the border town of Sanliurfa for two days before being smuggled to
Syria with four other women.

Turkish officials bristle at suggestions that they allowed Boumedienne to slip
through their fingers. Efkan Ala, Turkey's Interior Minister, said: "France did
not inform us about her status prior to her entry, therefore there is not a
specific ban that would restrict her entry to Turkey."

Meanwhile, a Turkish court today ordered the telecommunications authority to ban
access to websites showing Charlie Hebdo's front cover with the image of the
Prophet Mohamed, it has been reported. A lawyer in Diyarbakir had filed a
petition saying the websites were a danger to "public order".

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 14, 2015 Wednesday 4:25 PM GMT

Al-Qaeda in Yemen admits responsibility for Charlie Hebdo attacks and warns West
of more 'tragedies and terror';
Top AQAP commander said massacre was in 'vengeance for the Prophet'

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 455 words


A top al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) leader has released a video
claiming responsibility for the Charlie Hebdo attack and warning the West of
more "tragedies and terror".

Nasr al-Ansi, a top commander of AQAP as the branch is known, appeared in an
11-minute video posted Wednesday, saying that the massacre at Charlie Hebdo was
in "vengeance for the Prophet."

Twelve people were killed when brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi launched their
assault during an editorial meeting in the magazine's offices.

The paper had in the past published cartoons of the Prophet Mohamed and today
released the first edition since the massacre of its offices which also depicts
Mohamed.

One the Kouachi brothers was filmed shouting "we are avenging the Prophet" after
the killings at Charlie Hebdo.

The video, entitled "A message regarding the Blessed Battle of Paris', was
released via the Al-Malahem Media arm of the group.

In it, Al-Ansi said France belongs to the "party of Satan" and warned of more
"tragedies and terror." He claimed the al-Qaeda branch "chose the target, laid
out the plan and financed the operation".

He highlights "crimes" committed in Central Africa, saying: "Look at it. It is
France that has shared all of America's crimes. It is France that has committed
crimes in Mali and the Islamic Maghreb. It is France that supports the
annihilation of Muslims in Central Africa in the name of race cleansing."

Read more: New video emerges showing Kouachi brothers escapingFormer MI5 head
warns Britain will descend into 'vigilantism'

Al-Ansi also called for Muslim youth to "rise up" and described the Paris
shooting as " a new turning point in the history of confrontation".

The video used footage of the 9/11 attacks, the Paris shooting, images of the
attackers and quoted threats from deceased leader Osama bin Laden.

Charlie Hebdo: The first edition since the Paris massacre

In a translation of the video under the heading "Our message to the Western
nation", it added: "We have warned you before about the consequences of these
deeds that your governments collude with under the pretext of 'freedom of press'
or 'freedom of ideas'.

"The freedom that is always tamed except when spreading vile and waging war on
Allah and His Messengers and defaming the religion.

"We tell you once again: Stop your insults on our Prophet and sanctities. Stop
spilling our blood. Leave our lands. Quit plundering our resources. Otherwise,
by Allah, do not expect of us except tragedies and terror. You will look for
peace and stability but you will not find it."

Al-Ansi also praised the separate attack on a Jewish supermarket by Amedy
Coulibaly, an associate of the brothers, who killed four hostages before being
gunned down by French police.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 14, 2015 Wednesday 9:24 AM GMT

Charlie Hebdo: Where to read first edition since Paris terror attacks;
As many as 3 million copies of the special issue are to be printed in France

BYLINE: Kashmira Gander, Adam Sherwin

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 511 words


The first issue of Charlie Hebdo to be created since its offices were targeted
by terrorists last week will hit shelves across the world on Wednesday.

As many as 12 people died in the tragic attack last Wednesday, including eight
journalists who worked for the publication.

Since Friday, surviving team members of the controversial satirical magazine
have been using the offices of French daily Libération to compile the edition
dubbed the 'survivors issue'.

Pulling no punches, its front page will feature a cartoon of the Prophet Mohamed
with a tear streaming down his cheek, holding a sign reading "Je suis Charlie" -
the phrase which has been used around the world as a show of unity with victims.

Up to three million copies of the edition will be printed in France ahead of
Wednesday's release - a huge boost compared with the magazine's regular run of
60,000 copies.

It is thought 25 countries in total will receive French-language versions. The
French edition will in turn be translated into English, Spanish and Arabic
copies which will be available in Italy and Turkey.

A PDF version will also be made available to download in French, English,
Spanish and Arabic from Wednesday morning.

Charlie Hebdo: Mourning in Paris

Read more: Charlie Hebdo team defends new Prophet Mohamed cover'WE DON'T KILL
WOMEN,' GUNMAN TOLD MASSACRE SURVIVORMUSLIM MAYOR OF ROTTERDAM'S MESSAGE TO
EXTREMISTSFRENCH POLICE SAY WEAPONS USED IN MASSACRES WERE FROM ABROADWE ARE NOT
CHARLIE: THose ANGERED FURTHER BY FRENCH SOLIDARITYANJEM CHOUDARY CALLS COVER
DEPICTING MOHAMED AN 'ACT OF WAR'

The historic issuewill receive a limited sale in the UK, amid concerns that the
number of editions being sent to Britain will not meet the expected demand.

A spokesman for newspaper and magazine wholesaler Smiths News said:  "We are due
to get a very limited supply of the title but full details are yet to be
confirmed."

The wholesaler indicated that it expected to receive around 1,000 copies.

Smiths News distributes a range of print media to 30,000 customers, ranging from
large general retailers to smaller independent newsagents.

Menzies Distribution will also make copies available. A spokesman said: "I can
confirm that Menzies Distribution will handle supplies of the upcoming Charlie
Hebdo special edition. We don't expect to face particular security issues, but
we will take whatever precautions our security team believe are sensible to
ensure the safety of our employees.

"As the allocation process is still ongoing - and we don't know for certain our
supply from the distributor - I'm unable to comment on the type of customers
likely to receive copies."

A spokesman for distributors Comag said the firm will also be involved in the
distribution of the magazine but would not be handling a lot of copies. The
spokesman said some customers would want more but he did not think the company
would "be able to satisfy that".

He added that customers interested in receiving the magazine are "specialist
retailers, not newsagents." No-one at the firm had indicated any worries about
security, he added.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 14, 2015 Wednesday 1:33 AM GMT

Paris terror attacks: France's Prime Minister seeks tighter surveillance as
police say weapons used in massacres were from abroad;
Police believe the three gunmen were members of a terror cell

BYLINE: Kashmira Gander

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 505 words


France's Prime Minister will seek to tighten the surveillance of convicted
criminals, following police reports suggesting that the weapons used to carry
out the deadly terror attacks in Paris last week came from outside the country.

Manuel Valls warned in a speech on Tuseday that "serious and very high risks
remain" in France, and called for new measures to monitor imprisoned radicals.

Christophe Crepin, a French police union representative, said several people
were being sought in relation to the "substantial" financing of the three gunmen
- the Kouachi brothers and Ahmedy Coulibaly.

Said and Cherif Kouachi sparked a three-day man hunt after they attacked the
offices of the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, where they singled out its
editor and his police bodyguard for the first shots before killing 12 people in
all.

In turn, the brothers' friend, Amedy Coulibaly, killed four hostages in a kosher
supermarket, before he was shot dead by police on Friday.

Charlie Hebdo: Mourning in Paris

Read more: Charlie Hebdo team defends new Prophet Mohamed cover'WE DON'T KILL
WOMEN,' GUNMAN TOLD MASSACRE SURVIVORMUSLIM MAYOR OF ROTTERDAM'S MESSAGE TO
EXTREMISTSWHERE CAN YOU READ THE latest edition of CHARLIE HEBDO?WE ARE NOT
CHARLIE: THose ANGERED FURTHER BY FRENCH SOLIDARITYANJEM CHOUDARY CALLS COVER
DEPICTING MOHAMED AN 'ACT OF WAR'

Mr Crepin added that the combination of the weapons being sent from abroad, the
amount sent and the logistics of the attacks indicated the trio were members of
an organised cell.

While the militants behind the attacks claimed to hold allegiances with al Qaida
and Isis - groups which view each other as enemies - Mr Crepin said he believes
the attackers held little loyalty to individual jihadi groups.

French authorities are now working to trace the source of the weapons funding,
and scouring Paris for a Mini Cooper registered to Hayat Boumeddiene,
Coulibaly's widow, who Turkish officials say is now in Syria.

Meanwhile, a Bulgarian a prosecutor has revealed that a man being held there in
custody had ties to one of the brothers who carried out the attack on the
magazine Charlie Hebdo.

The developments come after French police warned yesterday that as many as six
members of the terrorist cell that carried out the Paris attacks could still be
at large, including a man seen driving a car registered to Boumeddiene.

Responding to last week's brutal attacks, officials have deployed 10,000 troops
in France to protect sensitive sites, including Jewish schools and synagogues,
mosques and travel hubs.

In a move symptomatic of the tensions in the country, a man who had praised the
terror attacks in a drunken rant to police was swiftly sentenced yesterday to
four years in prison.

In the UK, Prime Minister David Cameron and Home Secretary Theresa May have also
used the Paris attacks to argue for increased powers of surveillance by reviving
the abandoned draft communications data bill, previously labelled a "snoopers'
charter".

Additional reporting by PA

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    January 14, 2015 Wednesday 12:38 AM GMT

Boston Marathon bombing trial: Lawyers for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev ask for delay in
wake of Paris terror attacks;
Defence fears 'extraordinary prejudice' resulting from last week's atrocities

BYLINE: Kunal Dutta

SECTION: AMERICAS

LENGTH: 385 words


Lawyers for Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the 21-year-old accused of setting off the bombs
that killed three people and injured more than 260 at the Boston Marathon in
April 2013, are asking for the jury selection process to be delayed by at least
a month because of the terror attacks in Paris.

Mr Tsarnaev's lawyers filed the motion on Tuesday arguing that the delay would
allow time for "the extraordinary prejudice" resulting from last week's events
in Paris and potential comparisons to the 2013 marathon bombing.

As the US prepares for what may the most closely watched federal death penalty
case since that of Timothy McVeigh, who was convicted of the 1995 Oklahoma City
bombing, the jury selection process, which started in earnest last week, has
proved challenging. Extensive media coverage, smartphone footage and thousands
of athletes, spectators and others who were personally affected by the bombings
means the selection criteria must be forensic. Last week a pool of 1,200
potential jurors reported to the court where the judge and lawyers  began
whittling them down to just a dozen, as well as several back-up jurors.

Mr Tsarnaev's lawyers have tried repeatedly to delay the start of the trial and
move its location. But their requests have so far been rejected. The judge will
now consider this latest application, which comes as the hunt for suspects in
the Paris shootings continue into another week.

His lawyers are expected to argue that Mr Tsarnaev was pressured into taking
part in the attack by his older brother, who embraced radical Islam in the years
before his death. Prosecutors allege that Mr Tsarnaev was a fanatic in his own
right and downloaded copies of al-Qaeda's online Inspire magazine, which
included instructions on how to make a pipe bomb.

Mr Tsarnaev is being defended by Judy Clarke, a specialist in high-profile death
penalty cases. She previously defended the Unabomber, a recluse who engaged in a
two-decade bombing campaign across the US, and a man who in 2011 shot
Congresswoman Gabby Giffords and killed six other people.

In both cases, Ms Clarke brokered deals in which her clients pleaded guilty in
exchange for the US government dropping its demand for the death sentence. A
similar arrangement is still possible in the Tsarnaev case but so far no
agreement has been reached.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Irish News

                           January 14, 2015 Wednesday

Israel mourns Paris terror attack victims

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 664 words


Thousands of mourners have joined Israeli leaders and the families of the four
Jewish victims of the terror attack on a kosher supermarket in Paris.

An emotional funeral procession in Jerusalem reflected the deep sense of
connection and concern in Israel over the safety of fellow Jews in Europe.

The ceremony, broadcast live on all Israeli TV channels, turned into a
nationwide expression of mourning and solidarity.

Relatives of each victim spoke briefly and lit a torch in memory of their loved
ones before stepping off the stage with a huge Israeli flag in the background to
embrace Israel's leaders. The ceremony concluded with the national anthem.

The four victims - Yohan Cohen, Yoav Hattab, Philipe Braham and Francois-Michel
Saada - died on Friday during a hostage stand-off at the market on the eastern
edge of Paris. They were among 17 people killed in three days of attacks last
week by terrorists claiming allegiance to al Qaida and the Islamic State
extremist groups.

The killings shocked France's Jewish community of 500,000 - the largest in
Europe - and deepened fears among European Jewish communities already shaken by
rising anti-Semitism and threats from Muslim extremists.

The attack sparked calls from Israeli leaders for French Jews to immigrate to
the Jewish state - calls that received a mixed reception in France, where
politicians and Jewish leaders insist that Jews are an integral part of the
country and where a mass migration of the community would be perceived as a
failure of the republic.

European Jews are deeply ambivalent about leaving. While maintaining close ties
to Israel, their community leaders have urged people to stay in their homelands
and not flee in the face of terror.

Still, instead of being buried in France, the victims' bodies were flown to
Israel where they received a funeral with many of the trappings of an official
ceremony.

"Yoav, Yohan, Phillipe, Francois-Michel - this is not how we wanted to welcome
you to Israel," President Reuven Rivlin said, his voice quivering.

"We wanted you alive, we wanted for you, life. At moments such as these, I stand
before you, broken-hearted, shaken and in pain, and with me stands and cries an
entire nation."

Mr Rivlin insisted that Jews should not return to their ancestral home out of
distress or fear of violence: "The land of Israel is the land of choice. We want
you to choose Israel, because of a love for Israel."

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, whom critics at home accuse of having an
overzealous and politically motivated response to the Paris killings, defended
the rights of Jews to live safely everywhere.

"I believe that they know deep in their hearts that they have one country, the
state of Israel, that is their historic homeland and will always welcome them
with open arms," he said. "Today, more than ever, Israel is the true home for
all of us."

Israeli critics, mostly in the media, have reported that Mr Netanyahu travelled
to Paris for a solidarity rally against the will of French President Francois
Hollande, a claim denied by both governments.

Commentators have also criticised his behaviour in France, including his
repeated calls for Jews to move to Israel and video of him appearing to push his
way into the front row of world leaders at the Paris solidarity march. French
officials say Mr Netanyahu stood where he was supposed to be.

France takes pride in its inclusiveness and the Jews' 2,000-year history in the
country. It was the first country in Europe to grant Jews full civil rights, in
the immediate wake of the 1789 French Revolution. It has had two Jewish prime
ministers, and former president Nicolas Sarkozy has Jewish ancestry.

Representing the French government at the Jerusalem ceremony, environment and
energy minister Segolene Royal emphasised the connection.

"All four were killed because they were Jews," she said. "Today our thoughts are
for you, your pain is our pain. Your pain is the pain of the whole of France
that cries over your children with you."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                     January 14, 2015 Wednesday 4:22 PM GMT

Will Charlie Hebdo be available to buy in Liverpool newsagents?;
The latest issue of French magazine - the first since the terror attack that
killed 12 people last week - is facing unprecedented demand

BYLINE: By Kirsty McHale

SECTION: WHAT'S ON

LENGTH: 318 words


Charlie Hebdo magazine has hit back with a powerful front cover on the first
issue since a terrorist attack on its Paris offices killed 12 people.

The latest issue of the French satirical magazine depicts the Prophet Mohamed
shedding a tear and holding a sign saying "Je Suis Charlie" - the term that
became the international show of support for the murdered Charlie Hebdo staff -
under the slogan "Tout Est Pardonne" ("All is forgiven.")

Publishers have extended the magazine's usual 60,000-copy print run to five
million - and demand is so high that copies have been selling on eBay for
hundreds of pounds. One copy was even attracting bids of over £80,000.

A limited number of copies of the new issue will be shipped to the UK for
distribution - some of which will be heading for Liverpool.

However, the exact number of copies that will be available in the city, and
where they can be bought from, is as yet unknown.

David Shedden of Menzies Distribution, which serves newsagents across the UK,
said: "We have only recently been advised of the supply which will be made
available to us in the UK - 100 copies - and allocation of the title is still
ongoing.

"Very few copies of Charlie Hebdo are ordinarily distributed by our company, if
any at all."

A spokesperson from Bold Street bookshop News from Nowhere said: "We won't be
stocking the magazine, from what we've heard they're most likely to be sold in
places that usually stock foreign-language newspapers, such as airports and
train stations."

If you are hoping to buy a copy of the latest Charlie Hebdo magazine, which will
retail at £3.50 in the UK, the advice is to call into your local newsagents and
ask if they are able to place a special order for the magazine.

Are you planning to buy a copy of this week's Charlie Hebdo magazine? Have you
already placed your order with your local newsagents? Tell us in the comments
below, or tweet us at @EchoWhatsOn.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                    January 14, 2015 Wednesday 11:05 PM GMT

City star Yaya Toure pays his respects to victims of Charlie Hebdo terror
attacks in Paris;
The Ivory Coast international, who played in France, adds in an interview that
media outlets should be more respectful over religions

BYLINE: By Paul Britton

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 364 words


Manchester city star Yaya Toure has paid his respects to the victims of the
Charlie Hebdo terror attacks in Paris and their families.

The popular Ivory Coast international, who was interviewed by CNN in Abu Dhabi
ahead of the Africa Cup of Nations, condemned the shootings at the offices of
the satirical French magazine which left 12 dead.

Yaya, 31, who used to play in France for Monaco in the 2006/7 season before he
signed for Barcelona, said he has friends in Paris and the situation was
confusing.

The midfielder, who captains his country, also said in an interview ahead of the
tournament's first game that the media should be more respectful over religions.

Toure CNN interview

Referring to last week's attack, in which eight journalists and four other
people were killed, he said: "When you hear something like that it's a bit
disappointing. I feel very sorry for the families - they lost their friend,
father, or their husband, you know."

He added: "Of course I have a friend in Paris, I have people who I work with.

"You get a bit confused, a bit afraid, because, as a Muslim, I have a friend and
they are Muslim as well and I'm afraid of what is going to happen."

Toure, who is a Muslim, spoke of the right to free speech but added that media
outlets including newspaper and magazines should be more respectful in their
attitudes to religion.

Asked about the magazine's depictions and cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed in
its editions, Yaya added in the interview with CNN News in Equatorial Guinea:
"As a Muslim I always believe in the way people can say what they want to say."

But he went on: "For me, the most important thing is that we know something that
sometimes the newspaper is doing a lot, and they're trying to do too much, and
sometimes they do it not with respect.

"Everybody has his point of view. Everybody has something to say about that. Of
course it's a newspaper trying to say something. But sometimes it hurts people."

Ivory Coast are in Group D alongside Mali, Cameroon and Guinea. The tournament
starts on Saturday.

Yaya's Ivory Coast side kick-off their 2015 Africa Cup of Nations campaign on
Tuesday against Guinea and are among the tournament's early favourites .

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    January 14, 2015 Wednesday 10:43 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo victim out of induced coma: Australian girl's relief as her
boyfriend wakes in hospital after he was shot in Paris terror attack, puncturing
his lung and spine

BYLINE: HEATHER MCNAB FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA and EMILY CRANE FOR DAILY MAIL
AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 884 words



     ·    Simon Fieschi, 31, has woken from an induced coma after he was shot
          when terrorists stormed the Paris office of Charlie Hebdo
     ·    His 27-year-old girlfriend Maisie Dubosarsky was in Sydney visiting
          family and friends at the time of the terrorist attack
     ·    Her mother confirmed that she flew to be by his side last Friday
     ·    Mr Fieschi had surgery following the terror attack where five of his
          colleagues were massacred
     ·    His lung was punctured and his spine was knicked by a bullet
     ·    Mr Fieschi ran the satirical magazine's social media accounts and
          fielded the large volume of hate mail the newspaper recieved


An Australian woman's French boyfriend who was gravely injured in the Charlie
Hedbo shooting has woken up from the coma he was in for eight days.

Simon Fieschi, 31, was in an induced coma after a bullet punctured his lung and
spine in the terror attack where two men massacred five of his colleagues in a
hail of gunfire at the satirical newspaper's office in Paris.

Masie Dubosarky was visiting friends and family in Sydney for Christmas when the
attack took place, and flew to be by her boyfriend's side on Friday as he
underwent surgery for the gunshot wounds.

Scroll down for video

Ms Dubosarky's mother said that she had been by his bedside since she arrived
back in the country.

'He is still in the intensive care unit. He has not been allowed visitors apart
from family and Maisie,' she told The Daily Telegraph.

It is still unclear whether Mr Fieschi will walk again, and his girlfriend
expressed both her relief at his lucky escape and fear for his future.

She was left fearing for the worst until hearing news on Thursday morning he was
alive but seriously injured, as bullet ricocheted off his spinal vertebra and
perforated his lung.

'Last night I was so happy because he wasn't dead. Now, realising that he might
not walk again... it's kind of terrible. I just wish it wasn't real,' she told
Fairfax Media.

He will be allowed visitors as he continues to recover, including the survivors
of the horrific attack on the satirical magazine.

Mr Fieschi, who had been responsible for fielding the large volume of hate mail
the anti-Islamic magazine received, started working for the magazine just after
the offices were firebombed in November 2011.

Ms Dubosarky, whose uncle is former Australian Treasurer Peter Costello, had
emailed Mr Fieschi just ten minutes before the attack took place.

'I don't know when the shooting started but the last email I got from him was
10.39am Paris time,' she wrote on Facebook early Thursday morning.

Ms Dubosarsky, who met her French boyfriend while on a working holiday in France
18 months ago,  said that the Charlie Hedbo staff did not consider the threats
they received to be imminent.

'They got threats all the time but ... none of them thought that their lives
were under threat. They were out in public all the time,' Ms Dubosarsky said.

She said she had met several of the people who worked at Charlie Hebdo and
described them as passionate about free speech.

'They knew they were at the forefront of that. They were attacking everyone - in
a sense they were so libertarian they almost had no politics. They went for
everybody,' she said.

Mr Fieschi's mother visited the offices of Charlie Hebdo this week as the
publication worked to resurrect its irreverent and often provocative newspaper.

The cover, released yesterday, featured a caricature of the prophet Mohammed on
the cover holding a sign which read 'Je Suis Charlie'.

The magazine, which normally sells around 30,000 copies a week, had an initial
unprecedented print run of three million. This has been increased to five
million after copies were snapped up today.

Issues of the magazine had sold out across Paris news kiosks within minutes,
appearing on newsstands one week to the day after the assault in Paris by two
masked gunmen.

They stormed the newspaper office after forcing a female employee who had just
arrived to work with her young daughter to open the door.

The attackers headed straight for the paper's editor and cartoonist, Stephane
Charbonnier, killing him and his police bodyguard.

The security had been recruited to protect him after extremists firebombed the
offices in 2011 over a satirical cartoon about the Prophet Mohammed.

A year later, Mr Charbonnier famously dismissed threats against his life,
declaring: 'I would rather die standing than live kneeling.'

The gunmen said they were wreaking vengeance for the magazine's blasphemous
cartoons and jokes about figures sacred to Islam.

One killer shouted 'Charlie Hebdo is dead!' following the massacre.

A top leader of Yemen's al Qaida branch has claimed responsibility for the
attack.

Nasr al-Ansi, a commander of Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, or AQAP as the
branch is known, appeared in an 11-minute internet video, saying that the
massacre at Charlie Hebdo was in 'vengeance for the prophet'.

Al-Ansi said France belongs to the 'party of Satan' and warned of more
'tragedies and terror'. He said Yemen's al Qaida branch 'chose the target, laid
out the plan and financed the operation'.

In the immediate aftermath of the attacks solidarity marches were organised in
major cities around the country and the globe, with thousands waving banners
reading Je suis Charlie - I am Charlie - in sympathy with the journalists that
died.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 14, 2015 Wednesday 9:32 PM GMT

French to deploy nuclear-powered aircraft carrier to the Middle East in response
to Paris terror attacks: Charles de Gaulle will join strikes against ISIS in
Iraq

BYLINE: DARREN BOYLE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 420 words



     ·    Aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle has been sent to the Persian Gulf
     ·    The nuclear-powered aircraft carrier will join attacks against ISIS in
          Iraq
     ·    President Francois Hollande said the situation 'justifies' the
          deployment
     ·    He said the government will review planned cuts to the French military


President Francois Hollande has announced the deployment of the aircraft carrier
Charles de Gaulle to the Middle East to join in attacks against ISIS forces in
Iraq.

The nuclear-powered vessel will travel to the Gulf with its battle group where
it will be in position to attack ISIS targets in Iraq with its complement of 20
combat aircraft.

Speaking today on the vessel, which is the flagship of the French navy,
President Hollande said the current situation 'justifies the presence of our
aircraft carrier'.

The deployment will take place as part of the multi-national operation 'Inherent
Resolve'.

President Hollande told personnel on board the aircraft carrier: 'Thanks to the
Charles de Gaulle we will have precious intelligence.'

France was the first country to join the United States in attacking ISIS
although it has ruled out launching strikes in Syrian territory.

It has about 800 military personnel, nine fighter jets, a maritime patrol
aircraft and a refueling plane at its base in the United Arab Emirates as part
of its 'Chammal' Iraq mission, as well as an anti-aircraft warship in the Gulf.
It also operates six Mirage fighter jets from Jordan.

France also has more than 3,000 troops carrying out counter-insurgency
operations against al Qaeda-linked militants in the Sahel-Sahara region.

It has urged African nations to step up cross-border cooperation to tackle
security challenges from Islamist groups in southern Libya to Boko Haram attacks
in Nigeria as it seeks to scale back its military commitments on the continent.

Hollande reaffirmed that France would reduce the number of troops deployed in
the Central African Republic, where it has handed control of peacekeeping
operations to United Nations missions.

France had deployed 2,000 troops to curb Christian-Muslim violence in the
country. This will fall to 800 by the autumn.

A week after Islamist militants carried out a series of attacks in Paris,
killing 17 people, Hollande said 10,500 military personnel would be deployed
across France as of Wednesday evening to bolster domestic security.

The president added that the government needed to review the rate of cuts to
French military personnel planned over the next three years to take account of
security needs.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 14, 2015 Wednesday 3:21 PM GMT

Judge DENIES request to delay Boston bomber jury selection after defense lawyers
claimed Paris terror attacks 'could taint jury pool'

BYLINE: DAVID MCCORMACK FOR MAILONLINE and ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 756 words



     ·    Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's lawyers had argued that the events in Paris had
          again placed the 2013 marathon bombings 'at the center of a grim
          global drama'
     ·    District Judge George O'Toole said on Wednesday that he saw 'no reason

           a fair and impartial jury can and will be chosen'
     ·    Jury selection for the trial began last week and will continue on
          Thursday


Lawyers representing Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev have
failed in attempts to convince a federal judge to suspend jury selection because
of last week's attacks in France.

Lawyers representing 21-year-old Tsarnaev had argued on Tuesday that the bloody
events in Paris that left 17 dead had once again placed the 2013 marathon
bombings 'at the center of a grim global drama.'

According to the lawyers, a delay would have allowed some time 'for the
extraordinary prejudice flowing from these events - and the comparison of those
events to those at issue in this case - to diminish.'

Scroll down for video

Jury selection for the trial began last week when some 1,350 candidates filled
out questionnaires at U.S. District Court in Boston and will continue on
Thursday when the first group of 20 jurors is brought in for follow-up
questioning, a process known by the Latin phrase 'voir dire.'

'My detailed review of the juror questionnaires in preparation for voir dire has
so far confirmed, rather than undermined, my judgment that a fair and impartial
jury can and will be chosen to determine the issues in this case,' U.S. District
Judge George O'Toole said in a electronic court filing on Wednesday.

Lawyers for Tsarnaev had said that potential jurors had been instructed to avoid
media reports about their client's case, but were exposed to reports about the
massacre in France.

'Almost immediately after the attacks, the press, politicians, and commentators
drew parallels between the French attacks and the Boston Marathon bombing,' the
lawyers wrote.

In the marathon case, authorities say Tsarnaev and his older brother, Tamerlan
Tsarnaev, planned and carried out the attack as retaliation for U.S. wars in
Muslim countries.

Three people were killed and more than 260 were wounded when twin bombs exploded
at the finish line on April 15, 2013.

Tamerlan was killed in a shootout with police days after the bombings. Dzhokhar,
21, could face the death penalty if convicted.

In the Paris attacks, which began January 7 on the third day of jury selection
in Tsarnaev's trial, two gunmen, brothers Cherif and Said Kouachi, burst into
the Paris offices of the French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, killing 12
people.

A total of 17 people were shot dead in a three-day terrorist killing spree,
including four hostages inside a kosher deli. The Kouachi brothers and a third
gunman, Amedy Coulibaly, were killed by police in two raids.

More than 1,350 prospective jurors in the Boston bombing trial were called in to
federal court in Boston last week to fill out lengthy juror questionnaires. The
judge will begin questioning individual jurors Thursday.

Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's lawyers have asked repeatedly to delay the trial and to move
it outside Massachusetts, where almost everyone seems to know someone connected
to the marathon or personally affected by the 2013 bombings.

Federal Judge George O'Toole Jr. has rejected the defense requests.

Last week, officials in Boston drastically stepped up security measures in light
of the attakc sin France.

White SUVs from Homeland Security lineed up bumper-to-bumper in front of
Boston's federal courthouse Friday while others periodically circled the block.

Boston police officers patroled the perimeter on foot, and a dark special
operations van was stationed near the entrance.

In the harbor nearby, armed US Coast Guard boats plied the waters, and inside
the court building officers with dogs roamed the hallways.

Boston police spokesman Michael McCarthy said his department was not aware of
any credible threats.

Boston's federal courthouse is used to heightened security, most recently in
2013, when notorious gangster James 'Whitey' Bulger was tried, convicted and
sentenced there.

Law enforcement officials will be keeping a watchful eye on the demonstrators
and onlookers the proceedings periodically have drawn, as well as the hundreds
of prospective jurors who have been filing in and out of the courthouse complex.

They'll likely also be keeping tabs on social media, where Tsarnaev's supporters
and bombing conspiracy theorists have been active.

The heightened awareness extends to nearby businesses along the rapidly
developing waterfront.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 14, 2015 Wednesday 2:57 AM GMT

Defense lawyers want Boston bomber trial postponed for a MONTH because they
claim France terror attacks 'could taint jury pool'

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 625 words



     ·    Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's lawyers said the events in Paris have again placed
          the 2013 marathon bombings 'at the center of a grim global drama'
     ·    Defense told the judge potential jurors were exposed to reports about
          the massacre in France


Lawyers representing Boston Marathon bombing suspect Dzhokhar Tsarnaev asked a
judge Tuesday to suspend jury selection for a month because of last week's
deadly terrorist attacks in France.

The 21-year-old's defense team said the bloody events in Paris that left 17 dead
have again placed the 2013 marathon bombings 'at the center of a grim global
drama.'

According to the lawyers, a delay would allow some time 'for the extraordinary
prejudice flowing from these events - and the comparison of those events to
those at issue in this case - to diminish.'

Scroll down for video

They said potential jurors have been instructed to avoid media reports about
Tsarnaev's case, but were exposed to reports about the massacre in France.

'Almost immediately after the attacks, the press, politicians, and commentators
drew parallels between the French attacks and the Boston Marathon bombing,' the
lawyers wrote.

In the marathon case, authorities say Tsarnaev and his older brother, Tamerlan
Tsarnaev, planned and carried out the attack as retaliation for US wars in
Muslim countries.

Three people were killed and more than 260 were wounded when twin bombs exploded
at the finish line April 15, 2013.

Tamerlan was killed in a shootout with police days after the bombings. Dzhokhar,
21, could face the death penalty if convicted.

In the Paris attacks, which began January 7 on the third day of jury selection
in Tsarnaev's trial, two gunmen, brothers Cherif and Said Kouachi, burst into
the Paris offices of the French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, killing 12
people.

A total of 17 people were shot dead in a three-day terrorist killing spree,
including four hostages inside a kosher deli. The Kouachi brothers and a third
gunman, Amedy Coulibaly, were killed by police in two raids.

More than 1,350 prospective jurors in the Boston bombing trial were called in to
federal court in Boston last week to fill out lengthy juror questionnaires. The
judge will begin questioning individual jurors Thursday.

Dzhokhar Tsarnaev's lawyers have asked repeatedly to delay the trial and to move
it outside Massachusetts, where almost everyone seems to know someone connected
to the marathon or personally affected by the 2013 bombings.

Federal Judge George O'Toole Jr. has rejected the defense requests.

Last week, officials in Boston drastically stepped up security measures in light
of the attakc sin France.

White SUVs from Homeland Security lineed up bumper-to-bumper in front of
Boston's federal courthouse Friday while others periodically circled the block.

Boston police officers patroled the perimeter on foot, and a dark special
operations van was stationed near the entrance.

In the harbor nearby, armed US Coast Guard boats plied the waters, and inside
the court building officers with dogs roamed the hallways.

Boston police spokesman Michael McCarthy said his department was not aware of
any credible threats.

Boston's federal courthouse is used to heightened security, most recently in
2013, when notorious gangster James 'Whitey' Bulger was tried, convicted and
sentenced there.

Law enforcement officials will be keeping a watchful eye on the demonstrators
and onlookers the proceedings periodically have drawn, as well as the hundreds
of prospective jurors who have been filing in and out of the courthouse complex.

They'll likely also be keeping tabs on social media, where Tsarnaev's supporters
and bombing conspiracy theorists have been active.

The heightened awareness extends to nearby businesses along the rapidly
developing waterfront.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                    January 14, 2015 Wednesday 02:59 PM GMT

Paris-Style Terror Attack Likely 'At Any Time'

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 388 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Home Secretary has warned that terrorists could attack the UK at
any time and that Britain's armed forces could be deployed in the event of a
Paris-style attack.


  Theresa May added that the police and security services needed powers provided
in the blocked Communications Data Bill to protect the public and save lives.

She insisted the legislation was not a bid to allow the Government to "snoop" on
the content of emails but to allow the police and security services to find out
who was contacting whom.

But her comments to MPs come days after Britain's most senior policeman said an
attack on Britain is "unlikely".

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe said he was confident
the police and security services already have the powers needed to keep people
safe.

In an exclusive interview with Sky News he said the public should remain calm.

"I don't think (an attack) is likely but I think we all know it's a
possibility," he said.

"The threat level is severe and so therefore that means a terrorist attack is
possible.

"We do our best together with the security services to make sure the terrorists
don't succeed and that we keep people safe. To date, that's broadly what we've
been able to achieve."

In a statement to the House of Commons, Ms May said: "This is not - as I have
heard it said - 'letting the Government snoop on your emails'.

"It is allowing the police and the security services, under a tightly regulated
and controlled regime, to find out the 'who, where, when and how' of a
communication but not its content.

"(This would allow police to) prove and disprove alibis, identify associations
between suspects, and tie suspects and victims to specific locations.

"It is too soon to say for certain, but it is highly probable that
communications data was used in the Paris attacks to locate the suspects and
establish the links between the two attacks.

"Quite simply ... if we want the police and the security services to protect the
public and save lives, they need this capability."

Two days ago David Cameron said that, to help the security serivces monitor
terrorist communications, he would move to ban encrypted messaging services such
as WhatsApp and iMessage if he wins the general election in May.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

VIDEO:

Home Secretary Theresa May Warns Terrorists May Attack UK Anytime

Theresa May told MPs that the police can call on the help of the military at
anytime - should the country face a Paris style attack.

Link to Video

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                    January 14, 2015 Wednesday 06:33 AM GMT

Charlie Hebdo Back On Sale After Terror Attack

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 422 words



HIGHLIGHT: French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo has gone on sale again for
the first time since Islamist gunmen massacred 12 people at its offices in
Paris.


  The front cover of the magazine - which will see three million copies printed
- depicts the Prophet Mohammed holding a sign that says "Je suis Charlie" - a
slogan taken up by supporters since the attack a week ago.

The edition's lead editorial said: "For the past week, Charlie, an athiest
newspaper, has achieved more miracles than all the saints and prophets combined.

"The one we are most proud of is that you have in your hands the newspaper that
we always made."

Profits from the "survivors' issue", which will be printed in French and Italian
along with translations in English, Spanish and Arabic in electronic form,  will
go to the families of victims of the shooting.

But the cartoon has led to warnings from Muslim groups that it could "stir up
hatred".

Al Azhar, Sunni Islam's most prestigious centre of learning based in Cairo,
Egypt, said the drawings "do not serve the peaceful co-existence between peoples
and hinders the integration of Muslims into European and Western societies."

French Muslim groups have also urged their communities to "stay calm and avoid
emotive reactions" to the magazine.

Prime Minister Manuel Valls declared a "war against terrorism" on Tuesday and in
a speech called for France to pull together after the attack and the killing of
four hostages at a Jewish supermarket in Paris as well as the murder of a police
officer in the capital.

He said: "France is at war against terrorism, jihadism, radicalism... (not)
Islam and Muslims.

"I don't want Jews in this country to be scared, or Muslims to be ashamed."

Mr Valls called for France's intelligence and anti-terrorism laws to be
strengthened and "clear failings" addressed.

The Charlie Hebdo gunmen - Said and Cherif Kouachi - and their accomplice,
supermarket gunman Amedy Coulibaly, were known to French intelligence agencies
and had been on a US terror watch list for some time.

The magazine had faced threats and was firebombed for featuring cartoons of the
prophet.

It comes after new video emerged of the Kouachi brothers on the streets of the
city after carrying out their attack on the Charlie Hebdo offices.

Funeral have taken place in Paris and Jerusalem for some of the 17 killed in the
terror attacks, which included three police officers.

The head of Europol has warned up to 5,000 EU nationals pose a potential threat
to Europe after travelling overseas to countries like Syria.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

VIDEO:

3 Million Copies Of The Magazine Are Expected To Be Sold

Sky's Robert Nisbet reports from Paris.

Link to Video

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Stroud News and Journal

                           January 14, 2015 Wednesday

Je suis Charlie: Nailsworth man creates cartoon tribute to victims of Paris
terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 70 words


TERRY Greer from Nailsworth sent in this cartoon following the terrorist attack
at Charlie Hebdo.

He said: "I was incensed at this terrorist atrocity.

"I don't particularly support this magazine but I think we try not to offend too
much these days. Everything should be fair game for satire and violence is not
the answer.

"It's time to stand up and not allow others to silence anyone just because they
don't agree with them."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 14, 2015 Wednesday 5:37 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo massacre: British paramedics and firefighters given bullet proof
vests;
Specialist units given training in rescuing casualties during a "marauding" gun
attack by terrorists

BYLINE: By Matthew Holehouse Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 502 words


Paramedics and fire crews have been issued with bullet-proof vests in
preparation for a Paris-style atrocity.

Blue-light responders have been given training in treating devastating gunshot
wounds and rescuing casualties during a "marauding" attack by jihadist gunmen.

They have also been taught how to work in buildings, airports and railway
stations that may be booby-trapped with improvised explosive devices (IEDs).

The existence of the units was revealed by Theresa May, the Home Secretary, in
an update to the Commons.

Future training exercises by police and special forces fire-arms teams will
incorporate "specific elements" of the Paris attacks, she said.

The security services an attack on Britain "highly likely" following the return
of around 300 fighters from Iraq and Syria.

The units, known as Fire Special Operations Teams (FSOTs) and Ambulance
Intervention Teams (AIT), were set up ahead of the Olympic Games, which were
feared to be highly vulnerable to a terrorist outrage.

They have been issued with ballistic vests and helmets, and are trained to deal
with what Whitehall terms a 'Marauding Terrorist Firearms Attack'.

Fourteen fire services have FSOTS, comprising six crewmen and an officer, on
standby around the clock to respond to a Mumbai-style attack involving a gunmen
with high-velocity automatic rifles shooting at the public.

Firefighters have been given training in combating blazes in buildings set
alight during a terrorist attack, and given extra training in "ballistics trauma
care".

The specialist fire and ambulance crews prepared to work in "warm zones" - areas
where an attack has recent taken place and which is "vulnerable to renewed
activity".

They are not expected to enter the so-called "hot zone", where gunmen are still
on the rampage.

They have been warned that gunmen do not expect to survive any such attack. At
least one ambulance crew has taken part in major week-long drill involving the
SAS, according to NHS records.

The development of battlefield medicine means that victims can survive major
gunshot wounds if they are rescued and taken to hospital quickly enough.

Members of the College of Paramedics have been briefed in the lessons learned
from the shooting spree of Andrew Breivik, the Norwegian far-right terrorist;
and on the risks posed by gunmen who have returned from Syria and Iraq.

At a conference in April, paramedics will be briefed on the threat posed by
"pyro-terrorism", with jihadists using arson and improvised incendiary devices
as a means of attack.

Firecrews have also studied the killing of two firemen and injury of two more by
a gunman in Webster, New York, who set fire to his family home before firing on
responders.

The urgency of their work was underlined by the slaughter of 67 people during an
Al Qaeda attack on Kenya's Westgate shopping mall.

Ambulance crews were given ballistic armour during the Troubles in Northern
Ireland. Some crews have been issued with stab-proof vests to guard against
knife attacks during call-outs.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    January 14, 2015 Wednesday 11:03 AM GMT

Letters: Charlie Hebdo cover illustration will only fan the flames of extremism;

Reacting to the Paris terror attack; how to tackle the deficit; soft skills in
business; and laying off the sauce

LENGTH: 1736 words


SIR - While I condemn the horrendous attack at the Charlie Hebdo building in
Paris last week, I cannot condone the latest act of defiance by the magazine in
publishing further offensive cartoons of the prophet Mohammed.

I'm all for freedom of the press and of speech, but there should be a mutual
respect for all religions out of our common humanity. As far as I know, no
British satirical magazine publishes such material.

Sally Burgess                      Budleigh Salterton, Devon

SIR - The cover for this week's Charlie Hebdo is not defiant. It is more akin to
throwing petrol on to a smouldering fire. I expected greater subtlety from such
an intelligent group of people.

Charles Holden                      Lymington, Hampshire

SIR - Lampooning the pompous (like yesterday's Adams cartoon) creates healthy
scepticism and intelligent debate.

I'm a Christian who is sometimes upset by criticism but well aware that a
lampooning cartoon will not offend God but rather the self-serving, puffed-up
people who claim to serve him.

Less respect, more lampooning, please.

Diane Barlow                      Cury, Cornwall

SIR - The Government should urgently consider changing the Public Order Act 1986
to allow uninhibited discussion with regard to religious ideology.

The present law clearly states that a person is guilty of an offence if he
intends his words, writing, sign or other visible representation to be
"threatening, abusive or insulting".

John Barker                      Prestbury, Cheshire

SIR - We should have the freedom to insult anyone, but the good manners not to.

Duncan Ruddick                      Lytham St Annes, Lancashire

SIR - We suffer from a lack of respect for the "other". We mask it with terms
like "satire" and when it is challenged, we cry "freedom of speech".

There are names deemed offensive to black people and Jews that we do not use. It
is time we applied these standards to Islam.

David Ross                      Huntsham, Tiverton

SIR - The Deputy Prime Minister believes we should have the "freedom to cause
offence" . What about the rights of those who are hurt by these offensive
statements?

Ernest and Sylvia Adle                      Didcot, Oxfordshire

SIR - Public focus should be on long-term planning towards a fairer society.

The right to swing my fist ends where the other man's nose begins.

Hasan Beg                      Kirkcaldy, Fife

Funding cancer drugs

SIR - Following the decision to withdraw the funding of life-extending drugs
from 8,000 cancer patients, perhaps David Cameron, Nick Clegg and other members
of the Government who so passionately support spending £11 billion of taxpayers'
money on foreign aid should explain to the patients concerned why their
treatment must be cut while the aid budget is ring-fenced.

Ian Rolfe Oxted, Surrey

SIR - The message that developing cancer is down to bad luck needs to be put
into context.

First, breast and prostate cancer were not covered in the study by Johns Hopkins
University, despite accounting for nearly 90,000 cases in Britain annually.

Secondly, the study concludes that "only" a third of cancers are preventable
through factors such as lifestyle. According to our research, this means that
81,000 cancer diagnoses a year in Britain could be prevented, which is no small
number.

Some cancers are not preventable, but the idea that we can do nothing to limit
cancer risk must be challenged.

Amanda McLean Director, World Cancer Research Fund UK London WC1

Bubbling tankards

SIR - Defending his opposition to prosecco on tap, Luca Giavi, director of the
consortium of winemakers in the Valdobbiadene-Conegliano area, claims that "the
producers of champagne... would do the same". He is on shaky ground.

I recall the bar in London's Connaught Rooms where champagne was dispensed by
the pint and half-pint, with the personal tankards of regular customers hanging,
ready for use, above the counter.

John Carter Bromley, Kent

Lost at sea

SIR - Every time there is the tragic loss of an aircraft over the sea - as with
the AirAsia jet - there follows the hunt for the black box .

Since the technology is available to transmit such information from an aircraft
to a ground location, it is time for an international agreement that all new -
and, where possible, existing - commercial aircraft must be fitted with this
facility.

Ron Mason East Grinstead, West Sussex

The Government must act to reduce the deficit

SIR - David Cameron is right to draw the electorate's attention to the
consequences of Labour's "borrow more - pay later" attitude for our children and
grandchildren. Interest costs accumulated by an ever-increasing national debt
will pile a huge burden on to future generations.

Labour's policy is one of greed - robbing the future to pay for the present.
However, with a large proportion of the population dependent on state handouts,
the chances that this message will be listened to is remote indeed.

J B Box Hertford

SIR - The Tory policy of a fixed-term approach to deficit reduction has
strangled the recovery. With £75 billion of cuts and tax rises still to come,
the inescapable conclusion is that austerity has failed.

Further attacks on the welfare budget would be morally reprehensible. For the
Tories and the Labour Party to continue with this strategy is utterly
nonsensical.

Alex Orr Edinburgh

SIR - Ed Miliband has said that he wants to lead millions of conversations
across Britain to explain his vision.

I welcome him to Surrey to explain why taxing wealth creators and family homes,
increasing government borrowing, avoiding benefit reform, bashing private
schools and refusing a referendum on the EU are policies we should support.

Stefan Reynolds Godalming, Surrey

SIR - Given that the Coalition is worried about the level of alcohol consumption
in this country, perhaps they could reduce the campaign period to three or four
weeks.

Alan Stanley Southgate, Middlesex

Business skills for life

SIR - Communication, teamwork and time management - often referred to as "soft
skills" - are qualities every employer looks for in employees.

Figures released today reveal that these skills are worth £88 billion to the
British economy. However, for too long employers, government and educators have
failed to recognise or promote soft skills sufficiently, resulting in lost
employment and development opportunities, as well as lower productivity.

We are calling for a wholescale re-evaluation of the importance of these
proficiencies. Through open consultation, we hope to understand how businesses
and government can work with educators to connect young people with employers
and help them to gain the soft skills that are needed in the workplace.

If we succeed, the British economy could benefit to the tune of £109 billion by
2020. This will make a real difference to the careers and lives of millions of
people.

James Caan Jez Langhorn McDonald's UK & Northern EuropeNeil Carberry
Confederation of British IndustryKirstie Mackey Barclays LifeskillsFiona Blacke
National Youth AgencyKaterina Rudiger Chartered Institute of Personnel and
DevelopmentRichard Atkins Association of CollegesMike Johnson Gelder
GroupsLizzie Crowley Lancaster University's Work FoundationDavid Hughes National
Institute of Adult Continuing EducationLiz Watts EdComsDereth Wood
learndirectSimon Tarr People 1stChris Jones City & GuildsJohn Allan Federation
of Small Business

To boldly swim where no man has swum before

SIR - I applaud your article encouraging more of us to embrace the pleasures of
wild and cold water swimming ("Come on in - the water's freezing", Features,
January 6).

However, without wishing to take anything away from the charitable fundraising
efforts of David Walliams, I am concerned by the implication that he is the
first and only swimmer to have swum the Thames. The only person to complete the
full swim to Southend is the extreme swimmer Lewis Pugh, whose team I lead. He
accomplished the feat in 2006, five years before Walliams. Moreover, unlike
Walliams, who stopped at Westminster, he did not wear a wetsuit.

Lewis also holds the records for the furthest north (North Pole) and south
(Antarctica) swims of one kilometre, again without a wetsuit.

Tim Toyne Sewell Nether Wallop, Hampshire

Same-sex marriage Act

SIR - Mary Baxter's letter on same-sex marriage raises important issues for all
political parties.

The Prime Minister claims that the passing of this Act was one of his proudest
moments. But one must consider the way it reached the statute books: it was
hurried through Parliament at an unprecedented rate led by what appeared to be a
personal campaign supported by an inner circle. The majority of the Government's
supporters failed to back it and a petition from the electorate with more than
500,000 signatories was virtually ignored.

If politicians wish to be respected, they need to reassure the public that the
full democratic process has been restored.

Malcolm Blunn Shorwell, Isle of Wight

Taxing questions

SIR - I run a small VAT-registered business and recently made an innocent
mistake when submitting a return.

HMRC's online system would not allow me simply to cancel the incorrect return
and resubmit. I phoned an HMRC adviser and, after a 20-minute wait, was told to
post a letter to the VAT Error Corrections office in Liverpool. I did this
immediately but, some four weeks later, I received a "default" letter,
containing a threatened surcharge. I contacted the HMRC Helpdesk via email; they
were unable to help.

This totally avoidable waste of my time and theirs - on what should have been a
very simple matter - is quite astonishing.

Wesley Hallam Ubley, Somerset

Lay off the sauce

SIR - As a young boy I was addicted to HP sauce and my father had a battle to
stop me dolloping it on every meal.

I always discovered the condiment, no matter where he'd hidden it. Finally, he
referred me to the French on the back of the bottle, solemnly informing me that
it said that HP was very dangerous for boys under the age of 17.

Foolishly, I believed him and it wasn't until I began to study French a couple
of years later that I became aware of the deception. I insisted on a raise in
pocket money to compensate for the hurt caused and, God bless him, he agreed.

Michael Wilson Dummer, Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                thejournal.co.uk

                     January 14, 2015 Wednesday 4:29 PM GMT

Peter Troy: More detail but less information about terrorist attacks;
Journal columnist Peter Troy questions the decision to focus so much attention
on what happened in Paris at the expense of events elsewhere

BYLINE: By journallive Administrator

LENGTH: 733 words


Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg is not someone I am in the practice of
quoting. However last week he got it so right in response to a belligerent phone
in listener. He said on a local radio in one of many reactions to the terrorist
atrocity in Paris:

"....in a free society people have to be free to offend each other. You cannot
have freedom unless people are free to offend each other. We have no right not
to be offended."

In contrast the comment from UKIP leader Nigel Farage was the very last thing
one might be, understandably, comfortable hearing "uncontrolled immigration" he
said "a contributory factor in the shootings in Paris", continuing that it was a
function of "multi-culturalism" and that there was an aspect of the shooting
which could be attributable to a "fifth column living within our own countries
... out to destroy our whole civilisation and our way of life".

In the fullness of time, there will be lessons to learn from last week's events
in Paris and it is going to take careful thought, comment and evaluation to come
up with the right lessons. On this issue Mr Clegg's comment was more appropriate
than his political rival.

Events and comments last week brought to mind the words of an eighteenth century
French intellectual prolific writer who once penned: "I disapprove of what you
say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it". Salient particularly
as the author, Voltaire, made many controversial comments on the worlds
religious and political beliefs of his day.

While the people of France spent the weekend coming to terms with last week's
terror attacks in Paris that left 17 dead a considerably less well reported
tragedy was unfolding in Nigeria.

Yet, reports of an estimated 2,000 casualties after an attack by Boko Haram
militants in the remote northern province of the country did not make the
headlines; Amnesty International described events as deadly and local defence
groups complained they had given up counting the bodies found lying on the
streets.

Reporting in northern Nigeria is notoriously difficult, unlike in Paris, people
on the ground are isolated and struggle with access to the internet and other
communications.

Thus there is an absence of an online community able to share news, photos and
video reports of news as it unfolds.

However, reports of the massacre were coming through and as the world's media
focused intently its attention on Paris, some have questioned why events in
Nigeria were almost ignored particularly as there were so many people murdered.

The answer has to be that despite advances in IT in recent years the national
media now report more detail but about less. When a huge news issue 'breaks' our
mainline media focus on the multiplicity of details, analysis and reactions from
leaders to the point of exclusion of other events. It is ironic that in an age
were information is so freely available one has to often self-search online to
maintain a full picture of world events.

In addition to the Nigerian massacre there were reports on line from
international agencies of the massive problems of the issue of asylum seekers -
particularly when they arrive in southern Europe on mass mostly in stressed
circumstances.

Most asylum seekers are "processed" from one EU nation to another until they
reach the richer countries to the north Europe where they hope to settle.

According to the latest Eurostat figures, by far the largest number of asylum
applications was in Germany, 126,705. France took on 64,760 and Sweden 54,270,
with Britain taking 29,875. This is only the start of the problem because, even
though many applicants may be rejected (62% in the UK), the host countries are
virtually powerless to send them away again.

Another major contributor to the story of human misery "people trafficking" by
the gangs that charge asylum seekers huge sums to board those "death ships" in
the Mediterranean - has become a multi-billion-pound criminal industry.

And then there is the plight of those 2.9 million exiled Syrians, living in
horrendous conditions in camps in Turkey, Lebanon, and elsewhere, or the
half-million refugees in Kenya, or the Eritreans being slaughtered in camps in
southern Sudan.

There is much to disapprove of, perhaps it is the role of journalists to
encourage our world leaders to walk together arm in arm in the streets more
often!Peter Troy can be contacted on peter.troy@the-publicist.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTJN


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                    January 14, 2015 Wednesday 5:21 PM  EST

STATEMENT ON TERRORIST ATTACKS IN PARIS

LENGTH: 286 words


LONDON, Jan. 14 -- The Office of The United Kingdom Parliament issued the
following press release:

Home Secretary, Theresa May, is to make a statement in the House of Commons on
Wednesday 14 January 2015, on the recent terrorist attacks in Paris.

The statement is expected to commence at 12.30pm, following the conclusion of
Prime Minister's Questions.

Timings are approximate as Parliamentary business is subject to change.

* Watch Parliament TV live: Statement: Terrorist attacks in Paris at
http://www.parliamentlive.tv/Main/Player.aspx?meetingId=16895

* Read current Parliamentary material in Topics: Terrorism at
http://www.parliament.uk/topics/Terrorism.htm

Transcripts of proceedings in the House of Commons Chamber are available three
hours after they happen in Today's Commons Debates at
http://www.parliament.uk/business/publications/hansard/commons/todays-commons-de
bates/

RELATED INFORMATION

ABOUT ORAL STATEMENTS

Oral statements are made after Question Time (or at 11am on a Friday) and after
any Urgent Questions.

Statements normally relate to matters of policy or government actions. At the
end of a statement, MPs can respond or question the government minister on its
contents.

* About Parliament: Ministerial statements at
http://www.parliament.uk/about/how/business/statements/

WATCHING PROCEEDINGS FROM THE PUBLIC GALLERY

UK residents and overseas visitors can watch proceedings in the House of Commons
by visiting the public gallery.

* How to attend a debate in the Chamber or in Westminster Hall at
http://www.parliament.uk/visiting/visiting-and-tours/overseasvisitors/debates/
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2015 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday

Italy: Rome Muslims cndemn Paris terror attack

LENGTH: 481 words


Text of report by Italian leading privately-owned centre-right daily Corriere
della Sera website, on 10 January

[Report by Paolo Conti: "At Rome Mosque: They Were Only Cartoons"]

Rome - "The way to respond to a cartoon is another cartoon, the response to a
book is another book. One may not like a cartoon, one may not agree with it, it
may irritate people. But nothing can ever justify a mass killing like the one in
Paris." It was midday yesterday, a hesitant sun was illuminating the splendid
mosque in Rome, designed by Paolo Portoghesi. Part of Italy's history. The first
stone was laid by Sandro Pertini [former Italian President] in 1984, and later
it was [former Italian President] Oscar Luigi Scalfaro who inaugurated it, in
1995. It is the religious heart of a community of around 80,000 Muslims who are
settled in Rome, according to figures provided by the offices of the mosque.

In the open space outside the entrance, immersed in green, we heard from
Abdellah Redouane, of Moroccan nationality, who for years has been Secretary
General of the Italian Islamic Cultural Centre that houses the mosque. He is
well aware that, among Muslims, there are some who, when they think of the
massacre at the Charlie Hebdo editorial offices, cite the blasphemous nature of
the cartoons to "justify" the murderous rage. But, in the view of Redouane,
there are no half-measures: "No tendency to find justifications. Our
condemnation is absolute, and very firm, fully in line with that expressed by
the Italian society that we belong to. A reflection is needed to build a future
of peace in Europe and the world. Because Islam is peace."

This was also repeated by the imam, Hassan Zeinah, in the prayers that were
delivered in Arabic and then translated into Italian: "Every act of violence is
to be condemned of and by itself. The message of Islam is peace, harmony,
solidarity, and social cohesion. Islam is a religion that is marked by mercy,
love, and non-violence." Many people were wiling to speak after the prayers were
over, like Gaoussou Ouattara, a retailer born in Cote d'Ivoire who has been in
Italy for 30 years, and who is the chairman of the African Movement in Rome:
"There is no justification for the Paris tragedy. One may not have agreed with
the work of the Charlie Hebdo cartoonists, but it is impossible to find
justifications for such a barbarous murder, especially thinking that it is
contrary to freedom of information." Muhammad Gaber Haiba is 27, and is an
Italian citizen born in Rome to Egyptian parents, and an expert in robotics: "On
Twitter and Facebook I have explained my thoughts. Terrorism does not have a
religion. And all this has nothing to do with Islam." Farida, a Moroccan woman,
who has been in Italy for 26 years, shouted: "Who is it who is brainwashing
these young people?".

Source: Corriere della Sera website, Milan, in Italian 0000 gmt 10 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday

Cypriot president says authorities taking measures to prevent terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 265 words


Text of report in English by Greek Cypriot news agency CNA

[Unattributed report: "Security Authorities Take All Measures To Prevent a
Terrorist Attack, President Says"]

The security services are taking all necessary measures to prevent a terrorist
attack in Cyprus, President of the Republic Nicos Anastasiades [Nikos
Anastasiadis] said here today, as he signed the book of condolences which opened
for the victims of the terrorist attacks in Paris, at the residence of the
French Ambassador.

Asked to comment on reports that very soon a major terrorist attack will take
place in Europe, the President said that "what I know from the security services
is that we are taking all necessary measures to prevent anything similar
happening in our country."

The President expressed hope that the universal reaction to the terrorist
attacks in Paris would make extremists to have second thoughts before attempting
any unacceptable act.

In his message in the book of condolences, Nicos Anastasiades says the
following: "The Government of the Republic of Cyprus utterly and unequivocally
condemns the heinous and barbaric attacks in Paris a few days ago, which
resulted in the death of 17 people. The world community, shocked by this
atrocity, shall not allow extremists to challenge our democratic values and
silence the free flow of opinions and ideas. On behalf of the people of Cyprus,
I express my deepest condolences and sympathy to the families of the victims and
assure the French government and people of our sincere solidarity."

Source: Cyprus News Agency, Nicosia, in English 1425 gmt 14 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     January 15, 2015 Thursday 9:22 AM GMT

Chelsea up security for PSG trip after Charlie Hebdo terror attacks

BYLINE: Jack Wilson

LENGTH: 129 words


CHELSEA have beefed up security for their trip to face Paris St-Germain next
month.

The pair go head-to-head in the Champions League last-16 on February 17 in the
French capital.

The second leg is on March 11 at Stamford Bridge.

In the wake of last week's terror attack, the Blues have hire extra bodyguards
to protect their superstar squad.

A source told The Sun: "They're taking no chances. It was almost inevitable
after the horrific events.

"Player safety is the club's No.1 priority."

Related articles PAPER REVIEW: Chelsea duo to LEAVE, Messi swoop, Arsenal battle
Spurs, Defoe Prem DEAL Chelsea News: Salah and Schurrle sold to buy Varane,
Mourinho's team secret, Ramires vow REVEALED: The secret to Jose Mourinho's
success at Chelsea

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Paramedics trained to deal with terrorist gun attacks

BYLINE: Matthew Holehouse

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 393 words


PARAMEDICS and firemen are being given bulletproof vests so they can rescue
victims of gun attacks similar to the Paris massacre last week.

Emergency responders have been trained to treat battlefield wounds and in
retrieving casualties in the aftermath of an atrocity by jihadist gunmen.

They have also been taught how to work in buildings, airports and railway
stations that are booby-trapped with improvised explosive devices (IEDs).

The existence of the units was disclosed by Theresa May, the Home Secretary, in
an update to the Commons in which she warned lives were being put at risk
because the security services were barred by law from accessing terrorists'
online communications. Future training by police and special forces firearms
teams will incorporate "specific elements" of the Paris attacks, she said.

The security services deem such an attack "highly likely" following the return
of about 300 fighters from Iraq and Syria. The units, known as Fire Special
Operations Teams (FSOTs) and Ambulance Intervention Teams (AIT), were set up
before the Olympic Games. They are trained to deal with what Whitehall terms a
"marauding terrorist firearms attack". Fourteen fire services have FSOTs,
comprising six crewmen and an officer, on standby around the clock to respond to
a Mumbai-style attack involving gunmen with high-velocity automatic rifles.

Firemen have been given training in extinguishing blazes in buildings set alight
during a terrorist attack, and have taken part in drills alongside the SAS.

The specialist fire and ambulance crews are prepared to work in "warm zones",
areas where an attack has recently taken place and which are "vulnerable to
renewed activity". They are not expected to enter the so-called "hot zone",
where gunmen are still on the rampage.

The development of battlefield medicine means that victims can survive major
gunshot wounds if they are rescued and taken to hospital quickly enough.

Members of the College of Paramedics have been briefed in the lessons learnt
from the shooting spree of Anders Breivik, the Norwegian far-Right terrorist;
and on the risks posed by gunmen who have returned from Syria and Iraq. At a
conference in April, paramedics will be briefed on the threat of
"pyro-terrorism", with jihadists using arson and improvised incendiary devices
as a means of attack.

France terror attacks: Page 14

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Dover Express Series

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday

Proud of Deal's moving tribute to Paris terror attack victims

SECTION: NEWS:POLITICS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 443  words


WE WERE all shocked by the terrorist attacks in Paris last week. Islamist
extremists killed 17 people in a horrific series of events across the city. In
attacking a satirical magazine and a Jewish supermarket, the terrorists were
trying to attack two core principles that underpin our society - freedom of
speech and freedom of religion. Alerts to catch the terrorists were sent round
Europe. There were concerns they would seek to flee to Britain. Security at the
Port of Dover was stepped up.

In the face of this shock it was heartening to see so many people in France and
around the world stand up against these attacks. The message "Je Suis Charlie"
quickly spread in solidarity with the satirical magazine, Charlie Hebdo, where
10 staff were killed.

People here in Dover and Deal too felt deeply that the values we hold dear were
under threat. In Deal, residents swiftly organised a gathering on the pier to
show their solidarity with the Paris victims. Two hundred people came, from all
political parties and none. Carrying pens, lanterns and Je Suis Charlie
placards, the throng marched down the pier towards France.

It was moving to attend this spontaneous event and see the local strength of
feeling against these terrorist attacks, and for our values of freedom of speech
and of the press.

These values of freedom have been hard won over the centuries. We have seen
attacks on freedom of speech and freedom of religion before. Indeed our White
Cliffs stand as a symbol for the protection of our freedoms. And they stand as a
warning against extremism and the politics of hate. The reaction across the
world, and in our corner of Kent, shows why the terrorists will ultimately fail.
In trying to attack free speech and our way of life, they reinvigorated support
for freedom across our society.

These attacks also highlight the importance of promoting our core British values
and freedoms. Yes, we need a live and let live attitude on how people choose to
live. But we should also not be shy in promoting the fact that we are all
British, we have shared customs, shared values, laws and freedoms that we should
be proud of.

So we must make the case for integration - not the entrenchment of division that
is multiculturalism. We are all in it together, we are all one community and one
nation - and   strongest when we all stand together.

Last week's atrocities highlighted why we should always be vigilant in
protecting our freedoms. So dearly won, they are so easily lost and so often
under siege. Our White Cliffs are a symbol of the values we hold dear. I was
proud to stand with so many residents of Deal in tribute to the victims of the
Paris attacks.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror cells are ready to attack West again, says British jihadist

BYLINE: Kiran Randhawa

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 161 words


A BRITISH extremist thought to be part of a prisoner exchange between Turkey and
Islamic State (IS) in Syria has warned his fellow fighters stand ready to attack
western targets in the wake of the Paris shootings.

Shabazz Suleman, 19, from Buckinghamshire, told the Times he was among 200 IS
captives released in return for Turkish consular staff seized in the Iraqi city
Mosul last year.

Suleman had travelled to Syria in a convoy that delivered humanitarian aid to
Aleppo, according to the paper.

Following the attacks in Paris last week, he told the paper: "There's so many
brothers just waiting for the order to do attacks on the West."

Speaking of his detention in Turkey, he said: "Cops were friendly. It was good
lol. After a month they told us buses are waiting outside for u (sic)."

Last October, Turkish prime minister Ahmet Davutoglu gave no explanation for the
release of the diplomats, but confirmed the operation was led by Turkey's MIT
intelligence agency.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EST


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     January 15, 2015 Thursday 4:46 PM GMT

Man arrested on suspicion of supplying weapons to Paris terror attack gunmen

BYLINE: Rebecca Perring

LENGTH: 607 words


A MAN suspected of supplying guns to one of three gunmen responsible for the
Paris terror attacks last week has been arrested in Belgium.

REUTERS

Amedy Coulibaly killed four Jewish people

The man is believed to have handed himself in to police in the southern city of
Charleroi on Tuesday, saying he had been in touch with Amedy Coulibaly - the
jihadist who was gunned down by police after he shot a policewoman dead before
killing four hostages in a kosher supermarket in the French capital.

This was on the same day brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi, 34 and 32, were also
killed after they murdered 12 people around the offices of the satirical
magazine Charlie Hebdo.

According to local media reports, the man told officers he "swindled" Coulibaly,
32, in a car sale, but police later found evidence that the two were negotiating
about the sale of ammunition for a 7.62 mm caliber firearm - the kind of gun
used by Coulibaly in the Paris attacks.

REUTERS

A man prays for the victims of the Kosher supermarket terror siege

The Tokarev pistol is also believed to have been used in the possible non-fatal
shooting of a jogger two days before the terror atrocity.

A spokesman for Belgium's federal prosecution said: "The man is being held by
the judge in Charleroi on suspicion of arms dealing.

"Further investigations will have to show whether there is a link with the
events in Paris."

Today's news came as police revealed Coulibaly had rented a small suburban house
the week before and filled it with an arsenal of weapons.

The store included three Kalashnikov assault rifles, a rocket-propelled grenade
launcher, a machine pistol, smoke grenades and bombs, fragmentation grenades,
handguns and industrial explosives.

It also emerged that a search of the house - in a quiet street in the town of
Gentilly, south of Paris - could help officers identity a potential fourth
attacker through a money and supply trail of the Kouachi brothers and Coulibaly.



Former drug-dealing associates of Coulibaly reportedly claimed he was selling
marijuana in the Paris suburbs as recently as a month ago.

AP

Sherif and Said Kouachi

The Kouachi brothers also allegedly sold knock-off sporting goods made in China.

French police officials refused to say what had been discovered inside the
house, but a local newspaper reported that officers seized a scooter that
allowed them to identity "a fourth man" who may have acted as Coulibaly's
accomplice.

The newspaper did not identify the man, but said he may be responsible for the
shooting of the injured jogger.

However there are fears he may have already escaped to Syria, according to local
reports.

Police have also warned that as many as six members of the same radical Islamic
terror cell may be at large.

French police union spokesman Christophe Crepin said: "We have put our finger on
some extremely dangerous people, men and women.

"We are really in a war. We're dealing with a well-organised mafia-like
structure."

Counter-terrorism police continue to hunt for the girlfriend of Coulibaly,
26-year-old Hayat Boumeddiene, who is thought to have helped mastermind the
terror attacks.

Earlier this week, pictures emerged of her on the run.

A video released by the Turkish authorities today shows Boumeddiene arriving at
Istanbul airport on January 2, with a fourth suspect, identified as Mehdi Sabri
Belhoucine, 23.

brightcove.createExperiences; Related articles Is this the future? Jewish
schools in UK tighten security amid terror attacks in Paris French police
investigate fifth suspect in Paris terror attacks Policewoman 'deliberately' hit
by car in central Paris as suspects remain on run

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     January 15, 2015 Thursday 4:35 PM GMT

British grammar school jihadist returned to Islamic State warns of MORE terror
attacks

BYLINE: Dion Dassanayake

LENGTH: 578 words


A BRITISH jihadist who was transferred into the hands of the Islamic State by
authorities has warned of more terror attacks in the West.

SWNS/AP

Shabazz Suleman has warned Islamic State are prepared for more attacks on the
West

Shabazz Suleman, who studied at a UK grammar school, has warned he has "so many
brothers" waiting for an "order" to attack Europe and the US.

The 19-year-old was part of a prisoner swap deal between Turkey and IS, and he
was transferred to Iraq - where the terror group control large parts.

Speaking for the first time since the deal, he said: "There's so many brothers
just waiting for the order to do attacks on the West."

He also claimed to The Times that 200 IS recruits were traded for 49 Turkish
consular staff in the deal.

This was despite an appeal by UK diplomats for information to trace Suleman, a
former pupil of the Royal Grammar School in High Wycombe.

AP

Shabazz Suleman was transferred into the hands of Islamic State by authorities

The teen, who praised the massacres at the Charlie Hebdo newspaper in France
which left 12 dead, also spoke of his time in Turkish prisons.

He boasted that he had a "good" time as fellow captives were allowed to contact
IS on the internet and that police gave them Domino's pizza.

He also claimed that the police holding him "understood" why he wanted to fight
as they also "hated" Israel and Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

In a message to The Times, Suleman wrote: "Cops were very friendly.

"Understood why we wanted to fight in Syria. They hated Assad, Israel etc.

"Their ideology was that of the Muslim brotherhood."

Speaking of his experience in prison, he added: "It was good lol. Had pizza in
prison. Dominoes lol. Was allowed net.

"We spoke to dawla [IS] in prison, Watched [IS] videos. Sang nasheeds [Islamic
chants]."

AP

It comes as Christopher Cornell was arrested by the FBI for an alleged
IS-inspired attack on the US

The teenager also said that he had wanted to join the United Nations and had
been poised to study at Keele University before being radicalised.

Suleman said he was converted by "jihadi scholars" that he met on Twitter after
the conflict in Syria.

The warning of impending attacks on the West comes as the FBI arrested a man in
America for allegedly planning to attack the US Capitol in an IS-inspired
attack.

Christopher Cornell, is claimed to have told an informant they should "wage
jihad" and showed him plants to bomb the Capitol and shoot people.

brightcove.createExperiences; Related articles Islamic State sympathisers hack
US Central Command Twitter account Viral photo of 'white Briton who joined
Islamic State' blasted as a FAKE One of two Austrian teens who fled to Syria to
fight with IS 'killed' while other 'missing

The 20-year-old from Ohio came to the attention of the FBI after posting his
support for groups like Islamic extremists IS on Twitter.

Meanwhile, on Tuesday the director of Europe's crime agency Europol warned up to
5,000 EU nationals could commit terror attacks on the continent.

Rob Wainwright told the Home Affairs Select Committee that the huge number had
travelled to countries like Syria and could return to commit atrocities.

He said: "The British people can be assured that here in the UK we have some of
the most well developed and effective counter-terrorism arrangements in the
world.

"That said, the threat is here and clearly affects the UK, at least as much as
many other countries across Europe. It's a real threat."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     January 15, 2015 Thursday 1:06 PM GMT

Is this the future? Jewish schools in UK tighten security amid terror attacks in
Paris

BYLINE: Lianne Kolirin

LENGTH: 1346 words


EVENTS in Paris have made the Jewish community fearful. Here LIANNE KOLIRIN, a
British mother, writes of heightened security in her children's school in
London.

GETTY

Many Jewish schools in Paris, like the one pictured, have also tightened
security

When I drop my children off at school in the morning, I will be greeted by the
sight of burly security guards dressed in black on the gate.

It's a horrifying image for any parent, but one that has sadly become part of
the normal reality of having children at a Jewish school today.

A shocking new report published today revealed that more than half of British
Jews feel that anti-Semitism now echoes the 1930s.

I am glad to say that I do not count myself among them and consider Britain to
be a peaceful and tolerant country which has been welcoming and hospitable to
the Jewish community, as well as countless other immigrant groups. While I do
not deny the existence of antisemitism, my personal experience has fortunately
been largely free of such experiences.

Sadly, however, things have been changing - and not for the better.

GETTY

The terror attacks in Paris have made the Jewish community fearful

My husband and I are far from religious, yet we have a strong cultural identity
which is why we opted to send our children to a Jewish primary school. Under the
leadership of a fabulous non-Jewish head teacher, they have enjoyed a superb and
trouble-free education. Teachers follow the national curriculum, but also
introduce the children to our festivals, traditions, songs and more.  As far as
my sons are concerned, being Jewish is a hugely positive experience that they
celebrate with family and friends.

My boys are aged six, eight and 11. They know nothing about politics or land
disputes or religious hatred. For them, being Jewish is all about lighting
candles on a Friday night and eating deliciously fattening food at every
available opportunity.

Fortunately they remain ignorant of the uglier side of their heritage, and for
that I am grateful. Neither my husband nor I have been in any rush to burst the
bubble of their innocence, but just how long can we continue in this vein?

Inevitably, security has been tightened at their school in north London in light
of events in Paris last week - as indeed it has at Jewish institutions up and
down the country.

The fatal hostage situation at a kosher supermarket was a chilling reminder to
the Jewish community - not just in France, but Europe as a whole - of just how
vulnerable it is. There are countless Jewish shops, restaurants, schools,
synagogues and community centres in London, Manchester, Birmingham and other
large British cities. Britain is immune neither from terrorism nor as this
recent poll has shown, antisemitism. Putting it plainly, it could have been us.

GETTY

French soldiers stand guard in front of the entrance of a Jewish school

On Monday morning I - like all other parents with children at Jewish schools -
received a letter from the Community Security Trust , a charity that was set up
in 1994 upon the recommendation of the then Home Secretary and Met Police
Commissioner. Since then, it has been working tirelessly to provide physical
security, training and advice for the protection of British Jews.

The letter asked that the community to "be alert" but not "unduly alarmed or in
a state of panic".

Although it does not believe a threat on British Jews to be imminent, the letter
went on to say: "Nobody is complacent about this situation and we will continue
to work with schools, Police and Government to keep improving security measures
wherever possible."

Security has been tight around Jewish schools for as long as I can remember. In
fact, as a child I myself attended another Jewish primary school in a far more
religious part of north London. During my time there, the school was subjected
to an arson attack and swastikas were daubed on the wall.

My children's school has always been surrounded by a high metal fence. Until
recently, parents were asked to voluntarily carry out guarding duties in order
to prevent suspicious activity in the nearby surroundings. Access is only gained
via an intercom through to security and parents are asked not to hold the gates
open for anyone they do not know.

Sadly, out of necessity, this fortress-like attitude has only worsened of late
with the introduction of professional guards. Following the horrific attack on a
Jewish school in Toulouse in 2012, police officers greeted us as we dropped our
children off each day.

The police guard was of course only temporary, but tensions mounted further
still last summer during Israel's most recent conflict with Gaza. A brick was
thrown threw the window of a synagogue, just yards away from the school and a
sign was found posted on the window of a nearby Jewish charity shop which read
"death to Jews".

BARCROFT

Some Jewish schools regularly drill what to do and where to hide if a 'robber'
breaks in

BARCROFT

Crowds pay their respects to Yohan Cohen, Philippe Braham, Francois-Michel Saada
and Yoav Hattab

I have since heard that the children are regularly put through security drills
at most Jewish schools about what to do and where to hide if a 'robber' breaks
in.

Britain's Jewish community is less than 300,000-strong. We make up a mere 0.4
per cent of the population at large, and yet last year saw saw the most
anti-Semitic incidents recorded by police since records began 30 years ago,
according to The Campaign Against Anti-Semitism .

Much of the CST's focus and multi-million pound expenditure is focused on
protecting our innocent children, which affords them the right to an education
safe from the threat of harm.

The new research revealed that 54% of British Jews fear they have no future in
the UK and a quarter have considered leaving the UK in the last two years.

Gideon Falter, chairman of the CAA, said that Britain is at a "tipping point".
Whatever the reality about an impending threat, the perception is enough to send
shivers through the community - myself included.

At the end of this academic year my son will be leaving his small and nurturing
primary school. Like thousands of other anxious parents of Year 6 children, we
have been weighing up the pros and cons of where to send him next year. We have
two excellent Jewish secondary schools near by, both of which our son may well
land a place at. Their facilities are modern, their results excellent and the
journey there and back is not too cumbersome.

And yet, there is one aspect that I cannot get out of my mind: however good the
education, however tight the security - this school will always be regarded as a
potential target in the eyes of irrational extremists.

Related articles COMMENT: I am Ahmed, I am Charlie: I am Muslim - Let's march
for unity NOT hatred Charlie Hebdo: Al-Qaeda in Yemen claim responsibility for
terror attack in video message

Whatever we decide to do, the time will soon come when I must broach the
subjects of antisemitism and terrorism with my boys.

Psychotherapist Anne Denny, a positive parenting coach, agrees. She has devised
SleepTalk, a talking therapy for children's behavioural issues, including
trauma, stress and anxiety. Our default position, when faced with difficult
questions, is to fob kids off with a story, but honesty is all important, she
says.

"Explain things in terms of their realities," she says. "Say, for example, they
might have had an argument with someone. Explain that in some people that anger
gets bigger and makes them do terrible things. You're worried you'll destroy
your son's innocence and he will live in fear for ever. But he may go on to use
the information as a force for good."

Miss Denny recommends balancing the horror with positivity. In discussing Paris,
for example, highlight the millions of people who turned out for all the vigils
around the world in memory of the victims.

"Talking to children about terrorism is like talking about death: it's hard and
painful and we try to protect them from it. But you can be truthful without
being harsh and the fear is just our fear about what the truth will do to them."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 15, 2015 Thursday 3:56 PM GMT

Books to breed tolerance: what children can read after the terrorist attacks in
Paris;
Sita Brahmachari on why it's more important than ever to write stories for
children that explore our differences and common humanity - and her richly
diverse book list for all ages Now including your recommendations of books which
have helped you see the world differently. It's quite a list!

BYLINE: Sita Brahmachari

SECTION: CHILDREN'S BOOKS

LENGTH: 1496 words


In the week of the tragic terrorist attacks that took place in Paris my youngest
daughter (aged 10) came back from school with homework to research and write
about a human rights concern in relation to children anywhere in the world. She
already had a clear idea of what she wanted to research.

I had the radio on and she listened to the news of the terrorist attacks that
had taken place on the offices of the cartoonists Charlie Hebdo and the Kosher
supermarket.

I attempted to explain to her that these terrorist attacks were against the
freedom for people to believe in what they believe in and to express what they
think through their cartoons and words.

"Why would the terrorists do that?" She asked; wide eyed and horrified by the
idea. "You can't kill someone for drawing a cartoon. You can't stop someone
saying what they think."

I could not have expressed it more clearly myself and her words echo article 19
of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights summarised here for the very young
in We Are All born Free a picture book by Amnesty International.

"We all have the right to make up our own minds, to think what we like, to say
what we think and to share our ideas with other people."

But the sad truth is that all over the world, every day this and many other
universal human rights are being threatened.

"That's just wrong," I heard my daughter mutter under her breath as she went on
to do her homework.

The motivation for writing my last book Red Leaves came from finding it
increasingly difficult to make sense of some of the great divides that exist in
the world today... refugee experience, religious difference, intolerance and
conflict, homelessness, the war in Syria... I thought if I find all this so
difficult to understand how do children and young people view our increasingly
fractured world?

So I turned to fiction because since my own childhood I have found sanctuary in
stories, away from the news and the noise of the world, so many things can be
understood, felt and discovered.

After a week of emotional turmoil it felt strangely comforting that my daughter
was so keen to write about human rights abuses. As she carried on researching
there were gasps followed by explanations of "I don't believe this!" "How can
adults do this to children?" "Why can't people be fair with one another?" Her
questions led me to think about how this sense of outrage is common to many
great characters in stories for children and young people. I too love writing
characters who find their voice and then are not afraid to use it.

Yet over these days I had sat at my desk listening to the news and felt unable
to continue with my writing routine. I had not written a single word but my
daughter's passion set me off again and made me think that it's more important
than ever to write stories that explore our differences and our common humanity
- stories that feature young characters who may or may not be part of a religion
or culture that is like us or unlike us... or those who are "notsurewho,"
"notsurewhat" and "notsurewhy" about anything, but search to answer the big
questions about human rights, minds and hearts.

I often sit down to write without fully appreciating what is for me to have a
voice and to have that voice heard. As I witnessed my daughter exercising her
right to express her opinion I decided to begin to compile a list of
contemporary authors whose books have helped me and my family understand and
empathise with some of the most complicated situations we face in the world
today.

For younger readers

For Every Child - UNICEF (with a foreward by Archbishop Desmond Tutu)

Girl with a White Dog by Anne Booth

Malala Yousafzai: Warrior With Words by Karen Leggett Abouraya

The Colour of Home by Mary Hoffman

We are all Born Free - An Amnesty International picture book of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights

Dare To Be Different - A Celebration of Freedom in association with Amnesty
International: collection of Stories and poems

For older readers

The Arrival - Shaun Tan

Lines in the Sand : UNICEF New Writing about War and Peace by Mary Hoffman and
Rhiannon Lassiter.

Once by Morris Gleitzman

Free? Stories about Human Rights - Amnesty International anthology of short
stories

Freedom. Short stories celebrating Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Amnesty International anthology

Hidden by Mariam Halahmy

From Somalia with Love by Naima B Roberts

Malala: The Girl Who Stood up for Education and Changed the World by Malala
Yousafzai and Patricia McCormick

Sold by Patricia McCormick

Refugee Boy by Benjamin Zephaniah

Noughts and Crosses by Malorie Blackman

The Weight of Water by Sarah Crossan

Secrets of the Henna Girl by Sufiyah Ahmed

A little Piece of Ground by Elizabeth Laird

The Garbage King by Elizabeth Laird

Quicksilver by Samira Osman

Shadow by Michael Morpurgo

A Beautiful Lie by Irfan Master

Guantanamo Boy by Anna Perera

I was just beginning to think that I would love to have more recommendations to
add to my list when my daughter sighed deeply

"Mum! What else can I read about children forced to work in clothes making
factories?|" She asked. "A story... not news. I want to write it as if I'm her."

I was so happy to have a choice of stories to suggest to her. If you have
recommendations of books that have opened up your world, helped you understand
human rights and see things differently please share your thoughts... If we
spread the word about the passion these stories inspire in us no voice can be
silenced and together we might have the power to transform and expand all of our
worlds.

Which books have helped you see the world differently? Let us know by emailing
childrens.books@theguardian.com or on Twitter @GdnChildrensBks. Also see our
fabulous list The 50 best culturally diverse books.

Post script from Sita, 15 January

For me this set out as a wish to share a few books on my family bookshelf that
had helped my children explore human rights. When we invited people to help me
expand the list I had no idea that the response would be so heart-warming. This
is still in no way a comprehensive list, but it is one that may help young
readers navigate through some complex human rights concerns. I'm sure there are
books to add but for the time being I think we have created a hopeful list to
celebrate freedom of speech and narratives of unity:

Come On Everybody by Adrian Mitchell (Collected poems) Michael Rosen's The Best
Children's Poetry From Agard to ZephaniahAll Sorts to Make a World by John Agard
The Child's Elephant by Rachel Campbell-Johnston I Have the Right to Be a Child
by Alan Serres (Translated by Sarah Ardizzione) Kami and the Yaks by Andrea
Stenn Stryer The Humans by Matt Haig The Dragon Fly Pool by Eva Ibbotson Journey
to the River Sea by Eva Ibbotson Phoenix by SF Said Varjak Paw by SF Said
Sawbones by Catherine Johnson Torn by David Massey Where I Belong by Gillian
Cross Wolf by Gillian Cross After Tomorrow by Gillian Cross Shine by Candy
Gourlay Tall Story by Candy Gourlay Iqbal by Francesco D'Adamo Street Child by
Berlie Doherty Far From Home by Berlie Doherty Looking At The Stars by Jo
Cotterill Abela - The Girl Who Saw Lions by Berlie Doherty Boy Overboard by
Morris Gleitzman Girl Underground by Morris Gleitzman Old Dog, New Tricks by
Bali Rai The Savage Fortress by Sarwat Chadda Deadly Letter by Mary Hoffman The
Island by Armin Greder Under The Skin by Cathy MacPhail Klaus Vogel and the Bad
Lads by David Almond Nadine Dreams of Home by Bernard Ashley Three Wishes
Palestinan and Israeli Children Speak by Deborah Ellis One of Us by Jeannie
Waudby A Stone in My Hand by Cathryn Clynton Undone by Cat Clarke Blackberry
Blue and other Fairy Stories by Jamila Gavin The Wheel of Surya by Jamila Gavin
If You Were Me by Samira Osman (To be published in April 2015) Bird by Crystal
Chan The Heaven Shop Deborah Ellis Children of War Deborah Ellis The Other Side
of Truth by Beverley Naidoo Artichoke Hearts by Sita Brahmachari Jasmine Skies
by Sita Brahmachari Red Leaves by Sita Brahmachari Breadwinner Deborah Ellis Now
Is the Time for Running by Michael Williams In The Sea There are Crocodiles by
Fabio Geda The Middle of Nowhere by Geraldine McCaughrean She Wore Red Trainers
by Naima B Roberts Tasting the Sky by Ibtisam Barakat My Basmati Mat Mitzvah by
Paula J Freedman Kindertransport by Diane Samuels

Thank you to everyone that has shared.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Harlow Star Series

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday

MPs' tribute to victims of Paris terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS:CRIME; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 119  words


ROBERT Halfon joined other MPs from Essex in paying tribute to the victims of
the terrorist attacks in France.

Mr Halfon, Bob Russell (Colchester), Stephen Metcalfe (South Basildon & East
Thurrock) and  John Whittingdale (Maldon) took part in a two-minute silence in
the wake of the  shooting at the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in
Paris last Wednesday in which 12 people lost their lives.

"It was incredibly important to honour the victims of the shooting," said Mr
Halfon. "We need to insure  the values of freedom of expression, religious
tolerance, opportunity and the rule of law continue to flourish and that
appeasement of terrorism in the guise of extreme Islamism will never be
tolerated."

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Hereford Times

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday

Lyonshall journalist worked at scene of Paris terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 401 words


HEREFORDSHIRE journalist Katie Boyce was working in the heart of Paris during
last week's series of terrorist attacks, and she joined thousands of others for
Sunday's emotional unity march in the Place de la Republique.

Katie, aged 30, from Lyonshall, had finished a night shift at the 24-hour news
channel, France 24, when the Charlie Hebdo magazine's offices were attacked.
Later, she was at the scene when police stormed the kosher supermarket in the
French capital.

"I didn't really think Paris would be the place where I would get my first
experience of a major story at first hand," she said.

"As an English speaker in Paris, journalist friends working in the UK were
calling me to get news from the scene after the Charlie Hebdo attack.

"Fortunately I was able to help out, although it was pretty chaotic trying to
get information, as noone knew exactly what was happening."

Katie, a former pupil at Kington Primary School and John Beddoes School in
Presteigne, was filming as a freelance at the scene of the Charlie Hebdo
shooting.

When news of the supermarket attack in Porte de Vincenne broke, she was working
in the newsroom at France 24.

"We were still piecing together the first two attacks and suddenly it became
even more dramatic," she said.

"We began to feel Paris really was under attack at that point."

At the scene of the supersomemarket siege, the international media had arrived
along with a huge crowd.

While journalists crammed into an internet cafe, a huge explosion echoed in the
street.

"The crowd fell silent, there was a second explosion and there was a collective
gasp and screams, and people came running out into the street," Katie added.

"It was surreal to hear the sound of grenades in such an ordinary suburban
street.

"I was due to relay what was happening by phone at this point and my hands were
shaking as I dialled the number."

After two further explosions and bursts of gunfire, the siege was over.

Katie also said that it was a privilege for her to be part of Sunday's unity
march.

She added: "An amazing moment was when the cheers and applause passed through
the crowds like a Mexican wave - it's something I will remember."

Although armed police have been stationed outside her workplace, France 24,
since the attacks, Katie said: "Paris is still a lovely place, and people are
just getting on with their lives.

However, I don't know if it will ever feel quite the same as before."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 15, 2015 Thursday 8:37 PM GMT

Paris terror attacks: French broadcasting watchdog discusses 'reporting
failures' which could have further endangered hostages;
The meetings were held the same day as funerals for victims of the Charlie Hebdo
attack

BYLINE: Kashmira Gander

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 496 words


France's broadcasting watchdog is meeting with TV stations today to discuss
"failures" in the coverage of last week's Paris terror attacks, which may have
put hostages at greater risk.

Elsewhere in Paris, loved-ones and well-wishers gather at funerals for the
victims of the tragic Charlie Hebdo attack.

Last Wednesday, Brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi killed 12 people in a massacre
that started at the satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo. The following day, Amedy
Coulibaly shot a policewoman, and murdered four others in an attack against a
kosher grocery store on 9 January.

The fast pace of France's bloodiest and most dramatic terror attacks in decades
saw millions across France using TV news reports to stay up to date.

But TV news stations now face accusations that they put hostages at risk by
revealing too much information on their whereabouts. Others have also claimed
they interfered with police operations.

Charlie Hebdo: Mourning in Paris

Read more: Charlie Hebdo founder says late editor 'dragged' staff to deathUS
politician claims Charlie Hebdo killings were by 'US and Mossad' Protesters in
Philippines burn Charlie Hebdo poster with face of Benjamin Netanyahu

Staff at the Higher Broadcasting Council (CSA) have re-watched hundreds of hours
of footage, and will decide whether French TV stations are liable to incur
penalties or sanctions for their reporting.

They will also consider whether rules should be put in place for the coverage of
future emergency events.

The meeting took place as some of the victims of the Charlie Hebdo massacre were
laid to rest.

The funerals for cartoonists Bernard Verlhac, known as Tignous, and Georges
Wolinski, as well as columnist Elsa Cayat and policeman Franck Brinsolaro were
all held today, BBC News reported.

Tignous was remembered at a private service in the suburb of Montreuil, ahead of
his burial in Pere Lachaise - a cemetery home to the bodies of many writers,
artists and composers, including Irish playwright Oscar Wilde.

The cartoonist's body arrived at Montreuil town hall in a coffin covered in
drawings and messages from well-wishers, and was greeted by applause from
crowds.

Corinne Rey, a colleague of Tignous, described him as the "king of jokes" and
was "never afraid" during a heartfelt tribute, adding that Charlie Hebdo will
live on and its staff "won't be afraid either."

Meanwhile, Cayat was buried in Montparnasse cemetery. A ceremony for Brinsolaro,
a policeman assigned to guard Charlie Hebdo editor Stephane Charbonnier, will
take place in Sainte-Croix de Bernay.

A ceremony was also held at Pere Lachaise for Wolinski, who is to be cremated.

Mirroing Rey's sentiments, Wolinski's daughter Elsa said her father's ideals
would live on.

"I'm beginning to realise that he is gone," she said. "But as I said before,
they've killed a man and not his ideas. So here we are. We stand here and will
continue to defend the principles of Charlie Hebdo."

Additional reporting by AP

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 15, 2015 Thursday 2:22 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo: AirFrance supplies passengers with copies of satirical magazine
targeted in terror attack;
To cope with demand, the print run of this week's special international edition
was increased from 40,000 to 5 million

BYLINE: Kashmira Gander

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 331 words


AirFrance has supplied passengers with the first issue of Charlie Hebdo to be
published since its offices were targeted by terrorists last week.

In the wake of the tragic attack in Paris last week in which 12 people were
killed, demand for the publication has skyrocketed.

On Monday, it was confirmed that the usual print run of 40,000 copies would be
upped to 3million. It was later announced that, to cope with demand, the print
run of this week's special international edition of Charlie Hebdo would be
increased to 5 million.

Charlie Hebdo: The first edition since the Paris massacre

Read more: Charlie Hebdo new edition live blogCharlie Hebdo: Inside the first
edition since the Paris massacrePolice arrest 54 people for 'defending or
glorifying terrorism'Muslim leaders condemn depiction of Prophet Mohamed

A spokeswoman from AirFrance confirmed that the firm bought 20,000 copies of the
often controversial satirical magazine.

"They have been located in the lounges and boarding areas of both Paris airports
(Charles de Gaulle and Orly) for passengers who wish to take a copy.

"This offer is meant as a support to a French press title," she told The
Independent.

Since Friday, remaining Charlie Hebdo team members used the offices of French
daily newspaper Libération to compile the edition dubbed the 'survivors issue'.

As the latest issue hit shelves across 25 countries this morning, there was high
demand for the scarce copies, with several newspapers in Europe running special
supplements of Charlie Hebdo cartoons to satiate curious readers.

These included Spain's El Pais published a two-page supplement with Spanish
translation, and a small Italian newspaper, Il Fatto Quotidiano (The Daily
Fact), which published CharlieHebdo as a 16-page supplement, in French with
Italian translations of the captions. Physical copies of Charlie Hebdo were hard
to find, though newsagents in several countries said they hoped to have some in
stock by the end of the week. Additional reporting by AP

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Even 5 million copies cannot meet the demand of a city on the prowl;
An anti-Semitic comedian is arrested in the aftermath of last week's terror
attacks while newsstands quickly sell out of 'Charlie Hebdo'. JOHN LICHFIELD was
among thousands on the streets of Paris early yesterday

BYLINE: JOHN LICHFIELD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 868 words


After seven days of terror and defiance, France lapsed into the surreal.
Yesterday people queued at 7am to buy a magazine while President François
Hollande went up in the polls, and the previous night the Prime Minister Manuel
Valls was cheered by his political enemies in the National Assembly.
Parliamentarians all sang "La Marseillaise" together for the first time since
the First World War.

More predictably, anti-Semitic comedian Dieudonné M'bala M'bala was arrested on
charges of "apologising for terrorism". So a week dominated by questions of
democratic values and freedom of speech ended with the detention of the serial
provocateur for being provocative.

Most surreal of all, in a country where newspaper sales are low, was the sight
of scores of people desperately searching the Champs-??lysées at 7am for a copy
of Charlie Hebdo. A long queue formed outside a store near the Arc de Triomphe,
which opens at 8am. Other news kiosks and news agents were cleaned out of the
"survivors'" edition of the magazine within 60 minutes of opening at 6am.

"Don't ask for Charlie Hebdo," said a weary kiosk man. "They're all gone. Try
again tomorrow."

The Independent found one of the last available copies in the eighth
arrondissement. "I never buy it normally," said Anne-Marie, a 43-year-old
lawyer, clutching her magazine as if it was a winning ticket in the EuroMillions
lottery. "I wanted to get one because it's a historic edition and because I
think everyone should support them, whether they like the magazine or not."

Yesterday - one week after the Kouachi brothers stormed into the Charlie Hebdo
offices and murdered 12 people - the magazine was supposed to flood France with
three million copies. Printing and distribution restraints meant only 700,000
copies were produced (more than 10 times the normal print run). Another 500,000
will be printed today and the same number on following days. The magazine hopes
to produce five million in all - ending its long-standing financial difficulties
and providing a fund for the families of those killed. One newsstand near the
Champs-??lysées sold out in five minutes, while another near Saint-Lazare
reported a fight between customers. The demand was not limited to the streets:
Air France bought 20,000 copies of Charlie Hebdo to distribute to passengers.

President Hollande's poll ratings have been stuck for months at the lowest level
endured by a French head of state in recent times. He received a reward
yesterday for what has generally been acknowledged as a sure-footed handling of
last week's three days of bloodshed followed by epic "marches against hatred" in
France at the weekend.

An Odoxa poll for Le Parisien, taken on Monday, gave President Hollande a 29 per
cent approval rating - miserable enough, but eight points up since December.
Perhaps more significantly, 85 per cent of those asked said President Hollande
had been impressive in crisis - calming fears, promising retribution against
terrorists, refusing to stigmatise the wider Muslim community and gathering more
than 40 world leaders for the march in Paris on Sunday.

The actions and words of far-right Front National leader, Marine Le Pen -
attacking immigration and calling for the closure of France's borders - won
approval from only 33 per cent.

In a display of military strength, President Hollande announced that France's
most prominent military asset the Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier was ready
to be used to support military strikes against Isis in Iraq.

Last night the French comedian Dieudonné, 48, was charged and released after he
compared himself to Amédy Coulibaly, the terrorist who murdered four people at a
kosher supermarket in Paris last week. It emerged that more than 50 similar
cases have been brought since the three days of terrorism ended on Friday. Six
have already been convicted and two sentenced to short prison terms.

On Facebook Dieudonné mocked media superlatives about the march in Paris on
Sunday, and declared: "I am Charlie Coulibaly." The comments generated a wave of
fury online, and his statement was withdrawn in less than an hour. The comedian,
who has several convictions for making anti-Semitic remarks, claimed he had been
misunderstood. What was the difference, he asked, between his jokes about Jews
and the Holocaust and Charlie Hebdo's jokes about radical Islam? Prime Minister
Valls responded, calling him a "peddler of hate" and saying there could be no
comparison between "impertinent" satire and "anti-Semitism, racism and
negationism".

ALLEGED US ISIS CELL

AMERICAN ARRESTED

An American accused of wanting to set up a US branch of Isis has been arrested
for allegedly planning to bomb the US Capitol.

Christopher Lee Cornell, of Cincinnati, Ohio, was detained on charges of
attempting to kill a US government official. He was allegedly going to set off
pipe bombs and shoot people as they fled.

He is accused of support for "jihad" on Twitter accounts under the alias "Raheel
Mahrus Ubaydah".

"I believe that we should just wage jihad under our own orders and plan attacks
and everything," he allegedly wrote to an informant in August. "I believe we
should meet up and make our own group in alliance with the Islamic State (Isis)
here???"

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 15, 2015 Thursday 9:44 PM GMT

Police finally crackdown on hate sheik: Self-styled preacher Junaid Thorne, who
praised Paris terror attacks, is ordered to face court after raid on home in
Sydney

BYLINE: DANIEL PIOTROWSKI and EMILY CRANE FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 775 words



     ·    Junaid Thorne has been ordered by Federal Police to face charges in
          court
     ·    Self-styled sheik was on Thursday issued with a court attendance
          notice
     ·    It was a result of AFP officers carrying out a search warrant in Bass
          Hill, south-west of Sydney
     ·    Thorne sparked outrage last week after he said insults to the Prophet
          Mohammad were 'not allowed' following the Paris terror massacre
     ·    Outspoken politician Jacqui Lambie called for him to be jailed for
          treason following his controversial comments


Authorities are cracking down on Islamic fundamentalist preacher Junaid Thorne
after they ordered him to face charges in court following allegations he has
travelled between Sydney and Perth using false names.

The controversial self-styled sheik was on Thursday issued with a notice to
appear in a Perth court at a later date, an AFP spokesperson told Daily Mail
Australia.

AFP officers conducted a search warrant on a home in Bass Hill, south-west of
Sydney, on Thursday and the 25-year-old was subsequently informed of the notice.

He will face charges in court for using a carriage service to book a ticket
under a false name and the second for using the ticket to travel interstate, the
West Australian reports.

Scroll down for video

While police only released few details of the raid in Sydney, Thorne could
reportedly face further charges.

Daily Mail Australia understands Thorne has recently moved from Perth to Sydney.



It comes days after he sparked outrage when he told social media followers that
insults to the Prophet Mohammad were 'not allowed' and were likely to 'simulate
some kind of response' following the terror attacks on satirical newspaper
Charlie Hebdo in Paris.

His comments came just hours after 12 people were killed in the Paris massacre.

Thorne said staff at Charlie Hebdo had 'forbade to learn the lesson' of a
firebombing in 2011, which took place a day after a caricature of the Prophet
was published.

'Insulting someone's Prophet is very likely to stimulate some kind of response.
It is not allowed under any context/religion,' Thorne tweeted last week.

'If you want to enjoy 'freedom of speech' with no limits, expect others to
exercise "freedom of action".'

Thorne, who spent 14-years growing up in Saudi Arabia, refused to answer
questions about his statement when contacted by Daily Mail Australia.

Outspoken politician Jacqui Lambie called for him to be jailed for treason
following his controversial comments.

In a statement, Ms Lambie blamed previous governments for failing to protect
Australian citizens against these type of extremists living amongst us.

'There are now Australian citizens (like the mongrel in WA) who brazenly,
express public sympathy and support for the actions of the Islamic extremists,'
Ms Lambie said.

'When you provoke an enormous number of people, or degrade the followers of a
religion by insulting something or someone they hold sacred, don't expect to be
left alone,' he said.

Ms Lambie called for Thorne and other extremists living in Australia to be tried
for treason before they 'seek to impose their culture on us - or kill us'.

His remarks came as pictures emerged of the preacher last year accompanying
Sulayman Khalid, 20, to a court appearance.

Khalid, from western Sydney, was charged with terrorism related offences last
month over an alleged plot to commit guerilla warfare in the Blue Mountains,
west of Sydney.

The court appearance concerned allegations Khalid intimidated an Iraqi cleaner
at a western Sydney shopping centre.

Khalid rose to infamy after wearing an Islamic State symbol onto the set of an
SBS television program about the Islamic State last year.

Thorne would not answer questions about how he knew Khalid, only joking: 'We
used to go out in (Kings) Cross together... Since we started going to church'.

Over the past 12 months, Thorne's views have been the subject of public
scrutiny.

Following the nation's biggest ever terror raids last September, he labelled
Australian authorities 'the real terrorists' in a statement posted on his
Facebook page.

After Melbourne man Numan Haider, 18, allegedly stabbed two police officers
outside of a police station, Thorne said that he had been 'murdered by
authorities'.

Thorne later told the ABC Haider had attended some of his lectures, which he
performs around the country.

Thorne does not describe himself as a supporter of the Islamic State.

He told the ABC last year: 'If I were to vocalise my complete support to them
(Islamic State), I would get in trouble,' he said.

'If I was to say that (I) don't support them at all, that would be untrue.

'I may support them on certain issues, while I disagree with them on other
issues'.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 15, 2015 Thursday 4:54 PM GMT

Independent newsagent and fancy dress shop are latest stores to stock Charlie
Hebdo newspaper in wake of Paris terror attacks 'because it's the right thing to
do'

BYLINE: HUGO GYE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 978 words



     ·    News kiosk owner is taking a stand by selling the magazine's new issue
     ·    A fancy dress shop has ordered 100 copies of the controversial
          publication
     ·    The first issue of Charlie Hebdo since last week's massacre features a
          cartoon of the Prophet Mohammed on its front cover
     ·    Parisians were queuing up yesterday to buy the magazine's new issue


An increasing number of shops in Britain have decided to stock the new issue of
Charlie Hebdo in a show of support for the victims of last week's Paris terror
attacks.

The latest outlets to stock the satirical magazine, which features a cartoon of
the Prophet Mohammed on its front cover, are a fancy dress shop and a news
kiosk.

One shopkeeper said it is 'the right thing to do' to sell the magazine in
support of free speech, while another said the publication had 'caught the
imagination of the world'.

The magazine was first published in France yesterday, just a week after jihadi
terrorists stormed the Charlie Hebdo offices in Paris and killed 12 people,
including the editor.

Its initial print run sold out within hours as potential buyers queued up in the
streets, and it is expected to sell a total of 5million copies.

The first copies destined for Britain are due to arrive tomorrow, and a number
of shopkeepers have already announced that they will make the magazine available
even though they don't usually stock it.

Jon Powell, who runs a kiosk selling newspapers and magazines, said he would
sell a limited number of magazines on a first-come, first-served basis.

And even though the new issue has apparently been fetching hundreds of pounds on
eBay, he has vowed not to charge more than the the face value of (EURO)3 (around
£2.30).

'I'm a little bit concerned about the reaction, but if it's perfectly legal to
sell them, we'll sell them,' Mr Powell, 36, said. 'Some of the magazines offend
different people for different reasons but we live in a free society.

'It was a big call to make to publicise it, but it was the right thing to do. I
have sympathy for the people who make the magazine.'

He added: 'I got the magazine in in response to customers calling first thing to
get a copy.

'I phoned the wholesalers and put my name down for a couple of copies and if
there were a few extra.

'After I put it out there on social media the phone has been ringing red hot and
demand shot up to 30 copies.

'I know some are up on eBay but I will be selling them at face value. I'm
providing the news that people want and I wouldn't want to make money on the
back of misfortune.'

Matthew Stephenson, the owner of a fancy dress shop, said that he would sell 100
copies of Charlie Hebdo.

'The magazine has caught the imagination of the world,' the 43-year-old said. 'I
have managed to get 100 copies to collect at 7am on Friday.

'Lots of customers have shown an interest in buying a copy. I believe they are
as curious as I am to see it.'

CAN YOU BUY CHARLIE HEBDO IN THE UK AND IF SO, WHERE?

There is a huge rush for copies of the 'Survivors' edition of Charlie Hebdo in
Britain - but there is confusion about how many will be available.

The French satirical magazine usually sells around 30 copies a week in Britain.

But distributors hope they will be able to get their hands on 2,000 copies,
which are likely to arrive from Friday - two days after it went on sale in
France.

The UK copies are being distributed by newspaper and magazine wholesalers Smiths
News and Menzies Distribution - Britain's biggest suppliers.

But they have also admitted they are still unsure how many they will get because
Charlie Hebdo sold out in France this morning - meaning there may not be any to
sell.

London is likely to have the majority of copies from Friday, because it has up
to 400,000 French people living there.

Larger stores like WH Smith have ruled out selling but smaller foreign book
stores and newsagents will.

One, the French Bookshop in South Kensington, said: 'We will be selling it on a
first come, first served basis when we get it'.

Another unnamed retailer told MailOnline they would like to sell it but are not
hopeful they will be able to get any copies.

Another British newsagent was seen selling copies of the magazine which had
apparently been photocopied, according to Press Gazette.

He was charging £9 for the counterfeit publications, but still managed to sell
70 copies.

It emerged yesterday that a village shopkeeper who announced that she would be
selling the new Charlie Hebdo had run out of her 200 copies before they were
even delivered to her.

Only around 2,000 copies are being imported into the UK, sparking a huge rush on
eBay. One auction saw bidding hit £100,000, but the sale is believed to have
been sabotaged.

At an emotional press conference on Tuesday, members of staff at Charlie Hebdo
vowed not to censor the magazine despite the horrific massacre which left many
of their colleagues dead.

The new front cover features the headline 'All is forgiven' over a tearful
Mohammed holding a sign reading 'Je suis Charlie', the slogan that has become a
rallying cry for those appalled by the massacre.

The image was the work of cartoonist Renald 'Luz' Luzier, who survived the
killings because he was late for work that day.

The magazine also includes cartoons mocking the two killers, brothers Cherif and
Said Kouachi.

Some British Muslims have spoken out against the decision to run a cartoon of
Mohammed, claiming that it is a provocative move which could further inflame
tensions.

Labour MP Khalid Mahmood urged newspapers and broadcasters not to show the
images, saying: 'These cartoons are not satire, they are not in good taste -
they are just offensive.'

However, David Cameron said: 'When your freedom of expression is attacked in
this way, I don't think it's surprising that people want to stand up and fight
for that freedom of expression they believe in.'

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 15, 2015 Thursday 11:05 AM GMT

Chelsea will hire extra security for Champions League trip to PSG following
Paris terror attacks

BYLINE: CHRIS WAUGH FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: FOOTBALL

LENGTH: 283 words



     ·    Chelsea face Paris Saint-Germain at the Parc des Princes on February
          17
     ·    Blues will hire extra security for Champions League last-16 first-leg
          tie
     ·    This comes after Paris terror attacks during which 17 people were
          killed
     ·    Extra security guards will escort players around French capital
     ·    Click here for more Chelsea news


Chelsea are 'taking no chances' with security when they head to France next
month to play Paris Saint-Germain and will ensure extra bodyguards are hired to
protect their stars.

The Blues face Ligue 1 champions PSG for the second successive season in the
Champions League when they go head to head in the last 16 of Europe's premier
competition on Tuesday, February 17.

In the wake of last week's Charlie Hebdo terror attacks - during which 12 people
were killed before another five died across the city - Chelsea will ensure they
have heightened security.

Extra security guards will be hired by the Blues to protect players as they move
in and around the French capital, and as they make their way to and from the
Parc des Princes.

A source told The Sun: 'They're taking no chances. It was almost inevitable
after the horrific events.

'Player safety is the club's No 1 priority.'

When the two sides met at the Parc des Princes last season in the Champions
League quarter-final first leg, PSG triumphed 3-1 thanks to strikes from
Ezequiel Lavezzi, Javier Pastore and a David Luiz own goal - with Eden Hazard
replying from the penalty spot.

However, Chelsea turned things around in the second leg and progressed to the
last four of the competition.

Goals from Andre Schurrle and Demba Ba gave Jose Mourinho's side the two-goal
victory they needed at Stamford Bridge in order to reach the semi-finals.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 15, 2015 Thursday 4:39 AM GMT

Sydney siege officially designated a TERRORIST ATTACK by the government so
insurers pay up

BYLINE: DANIEL PIOTROWSKI FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 257 words



     ·    Lindt cafe siege labelled a terrorist attack for insurance purposes
     ·    It's positive news for businesses who were affected by Man Monis'
          actions
     ·    Insurers will be barred from refusing claims because of terror clauses
     ·    Treasurer Joe Hockey made the announcement in a statement Thursday


An Australian government agency has labelled the Sydney siege a terrorist
attack.

In positive news for businesses affected by the December attack on the Lindt
chocolate cafe, Treasurer Joe Hockey today labelled the siege a 'terrorist
incident' for insurance purposes.

The ruling under the Terrorism Insurance Act means that insurers will not be
able to refuse claims because of terrorism exclusion clauses in their policies.

Scroll down for video

Three insurances have registered claims relating to the siege to date, according
to the Australian Reinsurance Pool Corporation.

Mr Hockey said he was pleased the companies did not apply terrorism exclusion
policies.

Today's announcement follows reports one of the hostages is seeking a 'six
figure sum' to speak to media outlets.

Marcia Mikhael, one of 18 hostages held prisoner by the mad gunman Man Horan
Monis, is reportedly seeking a 'six figure sum' for a televised interview.

Daily Mail Australia understands several hostages have held discussions with
television networks about telling their story.

The Federal and State governments are both conducting a review into the siege to
examine what lessons could be learned.

The NSW Coroner announced this week that an inquest will be held into the siege
from January 29.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Scramble for first Charlie Hebdo since terror attack

BYLINE: DOMINIC YEATMAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 242 words


READERS in France mobbed newsstands yesterday to buy the 'survivors' edition of
Charlie Hebdo. They lined up before dawn to get the first edition of the
satirical magazine since the terrorist attack on its office killed 12.

'The queues have stretched everywhere but lots of people are disappointed,' said
Paris newsagent Michel Blanchet.

Paris resident Eric Randolph tweeted: 'My local had a queue of 70 people waiting
at 5.45am.' The magazine's usual print run of 30,000 was raised to 3million this
week - but a further 2million have now been ordered. The money raised will go
the victims' families.

Shoppers also queued outside the French Bookshop in South Kensington, west
London, only for them to be told it will not be available in British shops until
tomorrow.

That did not stop some turning to eBay where one copy attracted an unconfirmed
bid of more than £100,000. Fewer than 3,000 of the magazines are likely to be
sold in Britain but Air France yesterday handed out copies on flights leaving
Paris.

Its front cover depicts a weeping Prophet Muhammad and inside one cartoon shows
the terrorists arriving in Heaven looking for their promised virgins, only to
find the murdered cartoonists are already with them.

Islamic leaders urged the country's 5million Muslims not to be provoked by the
images and 'stay calm'.

French prime minister Manuel Valls held up a copy of the paper as he left a
cabinet meeting but his hand carefully covered Muhammad's face.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Supporter: French prime minister Manuel Valls carries a copy of the
magazine

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Mid Somerset Series

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday

Floral tribute left to terror attack victims

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 73  words


A TRIBUTE to 12 people who were killed at the offices of the satirical newspaper
Charlie Hebdo in France has been left in Glastonbury.

Flowers, pencils and a 'Je suis Charlie' sign were placed by the war memorial
following the incident on January 7.

'Je suis Charlie' was the slogan adopted by supporters of free speech and
freedom of expression after the massacre.

Editor's comment, Christian comment and cartoon, page 23; Ramble on, page 26

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                     January 15, 2015 Thursday 8:59 PM GMT

Belgium terror raids: two killed as police foil 'major terrorist attack'

BYLINE: Gareth Vipers

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 417 words


Two people have been killed after Belgian police raided a terrorist cell in the
east of the country.

Witnesses reported hearing explosions and gunfire near a train station in the
Verviers region.

Magistrate Eric Van der Sypt told reporters in Brussels today that the suspects
were on the verge of committing a major terrorist attack, and that they
immediately opened fire on security forces.

He said at emergency news conference that anti-terrorist raids are under way in
the Brussels region and Verviers.

He said Belgium's terror alert level was raised to its second highest level.

The raid was part of an investigation into extremists returning from Syria.

Belgian authorities are looking into possible links to attacks in neighbouring
France last week that killed 20 people, including three gunmen who attacked
satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo, a kosher supermarket and police.

Witnesses speaking on Belgium's RTBF radio described a series of explosions
followed by rapid fire at the centre of Verviers, near a bakery and in the area
of the train station. Video posted online of what appeared to be the raid showed
a dark view of a building amid blasts, gunshots and sirens, and a fire with
smoke billowing up.

RTBF said two people were killed during the raid in Verviers, a former
industrial town with a large immigrant population about 80 miles) southeast of
the capital, Brussels. Flemish broadcaster VRT said two were killed, one injured
and one arrested.

Earlier today, Belgian authorities said they were looking into possible links
between a man they arrested in the southern city of Charleroi for illegal trade
in weapons and Amedy Coulibaly, who prosecutors say killed four people in a
Paris kosher market last week.

The man arrested in Belgium "claims that he wanted to buy a car from the wife of
Coulibaly," said federal prosecutor's spokesman, Eric Van der Sypt. "At this
moment this is the only link between what happened in Paris."

Related stories

Van der Sypt said that "of course, naturally" we are continuing the
investigation.

At first the man came to police himself claiming there had been contact with
Coulibaly's common law wife regarding the car, but he was arrested following a
search on his premises when enough indications of illegal weapons trade were
found.

Van der Sypt stressed there was no established weapons link with the Paris
attack at this moment.

Several countries are now involved in the hunt for possible accomplices to
Coulibaly and the two other gunmen in the French attacks.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 15, 2015 Thursday 3:04 AM GMT

Charlie Hebdo attack: Anwar al-Awlaki - the al-Qaeda ideologue who may have
inspired the massacre;
After inciting a long list of terrorist attacks and calling for cartoonists who
"insult" the Prophet to be killed, Anwar al-Awlaki may still be encouraging
bloodshed from beyond the grave

BYLINE: By David Blair

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 531 words


Even beyond the grave, al-Qaeda's most successful propagandist may have inspired
more bloodshed.

Anwar al-Awlaki, an American-born preacher who specialised in radicalising
Muslims in the West, appears to have met Said Kouachi in Yemen in 2011.

If so, Kouachi would have been among his last pupils: Awlaki was killed by an
American drone in September 2011 . Yet more than three years after his death,
his preachings may still have helped to incite the murders of 12 people in
Paris.

Awlaki's brand of indoctrination has a remarkable history of encouraging
terrorism. What made him different from other jihadist ideologues was that he
concentrated his message almost entirely on Muslims in the West.

Awlaki's own background made him ideally suited for this task. He was an
American citizen, born in New Mexico in 1971 to Yemeni parents and educated at
Colorado State University.

English was his first language and he knew exactly how to tailor his message to
win over Muslims living in America and Europe. Awlaki understood that
theological ramblings made little impression; pointed attacks on the alleged
iniquities of Western foreign policy would be far more likely to hit their mark.

He was also among the first to grasp the full range of opportunities afforded by
the internet. Awlaki helped to create al-Qaeda's online English-language
magazine, "Inspire", and seized the chance to fill cyberspace with video clips
of his sermons.

The list of people who committed murder under his influence is remarkable. Nidal
Malik Hasan, the US Army major who killed 13 fellow soldiers in Fort Hood in
2009, was in regular email contact with Awlaki.

The Nigerian student, Omar Farouk Abdulmuttalab, who tried to destroy an
American airliner over Detroit on Christmas Day 2009 had also listened to
Awlaki's preachings in Yemen. The man who planted a car bomb near Times Square
in New York in 2010, Faisal Shahzad, told his interrogators that he was
"inspired" by Awlaki.

Another devotee of Awlaki's online performances was Roshanara Chaudhry, the
British Muslim who stabbed Stephen Timms, the Labour MP, during a routine
constituency surgery in 2010.

Now the name of Said Kouachi might be added to the roll call of young Muslims
who were roused to violence by Awlaki.

The preacher's influence lives on after him. Although he was killed in Yemen and
various internet providers have tried to cleanse their servers of his speeches,
Awlaki's orations remain available to anyone prepared to look hard enough.

Until near the end of his life, he retained a veneer of respectability. After
leaving America in 2002, Awlaki moved to Britain where he lived until 2004.
During this period, he spoke at the East London Mosque and addressed a dinner
held by the Federation of Student Islamic Societies in 2003.

Even after moving to Yemen, Awlaki continued to address audiences in Britain. In
2008 and again in 2009, he spoke by audiolink to fundraising dinners held by
Cage, a group campaigning for Guantanamo inmates.

His words, always aimed at Muslims in the West, appear to have found their mark
on many impressionable young minds. The journalists of Charlie Hebdo could have
been the latest to pay the price.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     January 15, 2015 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT

Imran Khan booed at terror attack school

BYLINE: Robin Pagnamenta, Mumbai

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 422 words


Imran Khan and his wife were heckled and booed yesterday by the parents of
children massacred at a school in Peshawar, as a visit to express their
condolences turned into a public relations disaster.

Visiting the Army Public School two days after it reopened since 132 pupils and
several teachers were killed by Taliban gunmen on December 16, the
cricketer-turned-politician was greeted by cries of "Go Imran Go" from parents.

Family members of the dead, holding banners and placards, tried to blockade his
convoy and denounced him for "forgetting the ordeal of the martyred families" by
opting to marry Reham Khan, the TV presenter, at a lavish ceremony on January 8,
three weeks after the country's worst terrorist attack.

Some parents also criticised Mr Khan, 62, for not visiting the school earlier
and only eventually doing so "with reporters to show his fake prayers and
condolences".

One mother said: "For one whole day, the [media] showed [Imran Khan's] wedding
and valima [wedding banquet]. They were not showing anything about the children
anymore. Nobody cares and he came to visit after a month."

Mr Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party controls the government of
Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province, of which Peshawar is the capital. It is the third
biggest political party in the country.

The badly damaged school, in Peshawar's sprawling military zone, is attended
mainly by the children of Pakistani soldiers. It reopened on Monday for a week
of counselling for staff and pupils before the resumption of regular teaching.

The wedding to Reham Khan, 42, a British-Pakistani divorcée who worked briefly
as a weather presenter for BBC South, has been condemned by many conservative
Pakistanis. They feel she is an unsuitable partner for Mr Khan, a right-winger
who has made much of his Islamic faith.

Pakistanis usually observe 40 days of mourning after the death of a close friend
or relative, especially in conservative parts of the country like
Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, where Pashtunwali, a tribal honour code, exerts a powerful
influence.

Pakistan responded to the terrorist attack by scrapping a moratorium on the
death penalty, pledging to execute hundreds of convicts and intensifying a
military campaign to crush Taliban militants in the Afghan border region.

The attack by seven gunmen led to an increase in security at schools, with armed
guards and metal detectors being installed at many of them.

Mr Khan told parents that he respected their protests. "I fully understand their
grief," he said. "They have lost their children."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  West Briton

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday

Vigil follows terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 86  words


FALMOUTH Quakers held a peace vigil in the town centre to coincide with the
march taking place in Paris following the terrorist attacks that left 17 people
dead across the city.

Ten members stood together on The Moor on Sunday afternoon.

Quaker Andrina Cossey said: "We stand in solidarity with the people of France."

The event was held in the wake of the murders in the French capital by three
Islamic extremists of three police officers, staff at satirical magazine Charlie
Hebdo and four people at a Jewish grocer's.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Quakers on The Moor show support for the Paris peace marchers.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday

Leeds community leaders call for calm in wake of terror attacks

LENGTH: 1109  words


The Paris terror attacks sent shockwaves across the world's Jewish and Muslim
communities. Sarah Freeman and Chris Bond report.

Aurelie doesn't talk about her religion any more.

The Jewish mother of three left her native France for Britain a few years ago
and with anti-Semitic feelings on the rise in her homeland, she says there's
little chance of them ever returning.

"You've seen the news last week," says the 37 year old, referring to the three
days of terror attacks, which brought bloodshed to Paris and saw a gunman storm
a kosher supermarket in the east of the city. "That's how my country is getting
worse and worse."

For now she feels more secure living across The Channel and happy to call
herself British, but for how long? Concerns about the safety of Jewish
communities have been further fuelled in this country with the publication of
two surveys by the Campaign Against Anti-Semitism (CAA).

As 1,500 Jews were reported to be leaving France for Israel, the first said more
than half of Britain's Jews had considered leaving the country in the last two
years. The second poll made even grimmer reading, highlighting the fact that
anti-Semitism is not just a problem of the past. Questioning more than 3,400
adults, 45 per cent of adults believed at least one anti-Semitic view presented
to them was definitely or probably true. Confirming lazy stereotype after lazy
stereotype, depressingly, one in eight thought Jews talked about the Holocaust
to get sympathy.

"It saddens me and greatly concerns me," says Simon Jackson, president of the
Leeds Jewish Representative Council and partner with the city's law firm
Shulmans. "It devalues the absolute horror of the Holocaust. I believe most of
this stems from lack of education and those who express that view I suspect have
no real understanding of the causes and effects. The Jewish community does not
seek sympathy. It simply points out the horrendous facts to prevent any possible
genocide reoccurring anywhere in the world."

While the scale and apparently random nature of the attacks has sent shockwaves
throughout the world, for many within the Jewish community it has been a tragedy
waiting to happen.

"The Anglo- Jewish community has for many years been concerned about their
security," says Simon. "There have been an increasing number of anti- Semitic
incidents and the attacks in France have not come as a surprise. There is a
general view and there has been for some time, that Europe is harking back
towards the dark days of the last century with governments having turned a blind
eye to the rise of anti-Semitism.

"Unfortunately the root of the problem is ignorance of the Jewish communities
around the world and a lack of appreciation by the masses of what those
Communities give to their countries of birth, coupled with the continual and
completely erroneous demonisation of Israel from the UN, the EU and others that
gives rise to anti-Semitism. If  only all appreciated that Israel is a fully
democratic state which provides equal rights to all, including the  one million
Arabs living, there would be less anti-Semitism. The recent actions by the EU
concerning Hamas by taking them off the terrorist list, and who have no
different ideology than ISIS only adds fuel to the fire."

In the wake of the terror attacks, which began when two Islamist gunmen forced
their way into and opened fire in the Paris headquarters of the satirical
magazine Charlie Hebdo killing 12 of its staff, saw immediate calls for calm.
However, while the decision by its publishers to print three million copies of
its current edition, which depicts the Prophet Muhammad weeping while holding a
sign saying "I am Charlie", is seen in some quarters as an act of defiance, the
"survivors' issue" of Charlie Hebdo has angered some Muslims.

Mohammed Rafiq Sehgal, president of the Council for Mosques, in Bradford,
understands why the decision was made, but questions whether it was right.
"Obviously, the magazine sees it as important not to be giving in to the forces
of terror and oppression. For the magazine this is an important principle to
demonstrate and uphold.

"However, in doing this it could be seen to be showing no regard to the feelings
of millions of Muslims throughout the world who have stood in solidarity with
the victims, their families and world leaders in condemnation of the atrocity."

Mr Sehgal says the eyes of the world are now focused on Muslim communities. "We
therefore need to be resolute in our role against the forces of terror and
oppression. This may require us to lead from the front. We must not flinch from
our role and responsibility in ensuring that our societies will not be held to
ransom by the terrorists' elements whatever their visible motives."

At the same time, though, there is a feeling among many Muslims that they again
find themselves having to justify their place in Western society, with UK
Independence Party leader Nigel Farage yesterday claiming that the country must
deal with the "terrible mistakes" of multiculturalism.

The response of Muslim leaders to the publication of Charlie Hebdo's latest
front cover was a measured one, but it highlights the glaring differences of
opinion between large parts of secular society and that of many Muslims.

"The motives of those publishing the caricatures of Prophet Muhammad, especially
at a time when Muslims and non-Muslims have already died defending their right
to do so, must be questioned," said Imam Qari Asim from the Makkah Mosque in
Leeds. "Muslims do believe in freedom of speech and do respect the right for
people to exercise their freedom."

Speaking to The Yorkshire Post, Mr Asim, who added that freedom of speech has
its moral and legal limitations, said the reason the imams had spoken out was to
try and limit the fallout from the cartoons and also to try and start a "frank
and open dialogue" about how to safeguard our freedoms.

However, there remain serious concerns about Islamophobia and the radicalisation
of young, alienated Muslims, and Mr Asim said that both need to be tackled.
"There is no one single issue, but we have got to work together because nobody
wants to live in a world with fanatics."

In wake of the CAA survey, its chairman Gideon Falter described the results as a
"shocking wake-up call". Britain, he said, was at a tipping point and a refusal
to tackle the very real tensions between different ethnic groups will inevitably
lead to more victims like those being mourned right now in Paris.

"Yes there is a tipping point and how close we are to that I don't know," says
Mrs Jackson. "Look at the German Jews pre 1933. They didn't worry and look what
happened there."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 16, 2015 Friday

India prepared to thwart possible terror attack - defence minister

LENGTH: 375 words


Text of report published by Press Trust of India (PTI)

New Delhi/Nagrota, 15 January: Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar on Thursday
said India is "well prepared" to thwart any possible terror attack in the
backdrop of intelligence inputs that strikes could be carried out on "soft
targets" in Jammu and Kashmir ahead of US President Barack Obama's visit here
this month.

"They (terrorists) may try to do something to create news. But we are well
prepared," Parrikar said.

He was replying to a question about the statement by a top army officer that
there were inputs about possibility of attacks on "soft targets" by
Pakistan-based terror groups such as schools, religious places, military convoys
and civilian areas in the militancy-hit state ahead of Obama's visit.

General Officer Commanding (GOC), 16 Corps, Lt Gen K H Singh said that 200
heavily armed militants were waiting in 36 launching pads across the Line of
Control (LoC) on the other side of Pir Panjal range and there is every
possibility that Pakistan might try to divert the fringe elements of the
home-grown terrorist outfits on this side of the border.

"There are general inputs that terrorists might try to attack soft targets,
including schools, religions places, army convoys and other civilian areas," he
told reporters in Nagrota.

Asked if the killing of five hardcore militants of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) and
Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) in a fierce gunbattle in Shopian district of south
Kashmir today was related to Obama visit, he said, "No, that (encounter) is a
different thing."

He said the encounter showed the success of information gathering by the
security forces.

Talking to reporters on the sidelines of a reception hosted by Army Chief Gen
Dalbir Singh on occasion of Army Day, Parrikar said Pakistan will have to put
words into action for bilateral dialogue process to begin.

"Let things cool down at the borders also. If things are quite now, it is not
because of Pakistan Army. It is because we reacted in a certain way when they
fired first," he said, when asked about media reports from Pakistan that it's
government plans to ban 10 terror outfits, including 26/11 mastermind Hafiz
Saeed-led Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD).

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1152gmt 15 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 16, 2015 Friday

Suspected Islamic State notes found at Mumbai airport warn of terror attack

LENGTH: 233 words


Text of report headlined "ISIS notes found at Mumbai Airport, warn of terror
attack on Republic Day" published by private Indian television channel Zee News
TV website on 16 January

Mumbai: Security agencies here have gone into high alert mode after two notes
found at the Mumbai airport on Thursday [15 January] evening warned of a terror
attack on Republic Day.

As per reports, the two notes with ISIS names on them teasingly ask: "Is
26/01/2015 BOM OK?"

The notes were found in two toilets, meant for males, by a cleaner.

The toilets are located inside the Terminal A1 of Mumbai's domestic airport.

The development came just over a week after a hand-written note scribbled on a
wall inside the Mumbai airport threatened of an impending attack by the ISIS, or
the Islamic State, on January 10.

The note, found inside a toilet in the Level 2 of Terminal 2 of the Chhatrapati
Shivaji International Airport, read "ATTECK BY ISIS DATE 10/01/15 (sic)".

The note appeared to have been scribbled on the wall using a pen.

The Mumbai Police has been - in view of the Republic Day on January 26 -
maintaining heightened level of vigil.

Security agencies have reasons to be worried as four Indian youth, who had
joined the Islamic State, were from Thane near Mumbai, pointing to the
possibility of a network of ISIS sympathisers being active in the city.

Source: Zee News TV website, Noida, in English 0000gmt 16 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 16, 2015 Friday

Bulgarian security chief says risk of terror attack exists

LENGTH: 201 words


Text of report in English by Bulgarian national news agency BTA

Sofia, January 15 (BTA) - There is a risk of a terrorist act in Bulgaria, but
the Bulgarian services do not currently have information about the preparation
or carrying out of such an act, State Agency for National Security (SANS) head
Vladimir Pisanchev told journalists on Thursday. He was given a hearing at the
parliamentary Committee for Oversight of the Security Services, the Deployment
of Special Surveillance Techniques and the Access of Data under the Electronic
Communications Act. "You can see what the situation is and what is happening
around us and in Europe," he said. Pisanchev noted that SANS does not have
information about terrorist cells in Bulgaria. In his words, the creation of
such a cell was prevented after the operation in Pazardjik (North Central
Bulgaria) late last year. Parliamentary Committee Chair Dimiter Lazarov said
that he is content with the measures and analyses presented by the heads of the
security services. The Committee assesses their work as good, he said and added
that the services are working in

constant coordination with each other.

Source: BTA news agency, Sofia, in English 1702 gmt 15 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Borehamwood Times

                            January 16, 2015 Friday

Borehamwood mayor writes to French twin town's mayor after terror attacks

BYLINE: Anna Slater

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 235 words


The Mayor of Elstree & Borehamwood has written to her counterpart in the
village's twin town in Paris to express her sorrow at the city's recent terror
attacks.

Councillor Pat Strack penned the heartfelt letter to Lareunt Vastel, who
represents residents in Fontenay-aux-Roses, in the outskirts of Paris.

The violence in the French capital city began after brothers Said and Cherif
Kouachi attacked the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo on Wednesday,
killing 12 employees.

On Thursday, another gunman, Amedy Coulibaly, shot dead a policewoman and
injured a man in the southern Paris suburb of Montrouge before fleeing.

On Friday, the same gunman killed four people at a kosher supermarket in eastern
Paris. In her letter, Cllr Strack wrote: "I would like to express the shock and
horror we felt as the events of the terrorist attacks on Paris last week
unfolded.

"This must have been a very terrifying time for the people of Fontenay - so
close to the initial attack on the offices of Charlie Hebdo and the sieges at
Dammartin-en-Goele and Porte de Vincennes. The response from the people of
Paris, and the whole of France, on Sunday was inspiring and a great example of
reconciliation and solidarity.

"Condolences are sent from the councillors and staff of Elstree and Borehamwood
Town Council on behalf of the residents. We stand together with you in support
of freedom and tolerance in this troubled time."

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      January 16, 2015 Friday 06:15 AM GMT

Belgian terrorists were just 'hours away' from attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 954 words


Belgian authorities have said they thwarted a major attack by just hours when
they killed two suspects in a shoot-out and arrested a third in a huge
anti-terror operation that stretched into the night.

The police raid on a former bakery in the city of Verviers was another palpable
sign that terror had seeped deep into Europe's heartland as security forces
struck against returnees from Islamic holy war in Syria.

"As soon as I opened the window, you could smell the gunpowder," said neighbour
Alexandre Massaux following a firefight with automatic weapons and Kalashnikovs
that was punctuated by explosions.

Two suspects were killed and a third arrested and charged with belonging to a
terrorist organisation.

"As soon as they thought special forces were there, they opened fire," federal
magistrate Eric Van der Sypt said.

After the gun smoke lifted, police continued with searches in Verviers and the
greater Brussels area, seeking more clues in a weeks-long investigation that
started well before the terrorism spree last week that led to 17 deaths in the
Paris area. The Belgian operations had no apparent link to the terrorist acts
committed in France.

Unlike the Paris terrorists, who attacked the office of a satirical newspaper
and a kosher grocery store, the suspects in Belgium were reportedly aiming at
hard targets: police installations.

"They were on the verge of committing important terror attacks," Mr Van der Sypt
said in Brussels.

Across Europe, anxiety has grown as the manhunt continues for potential
accomplices of the three Paris terrorists, all of whom were shot dead by police.
Authorities in Belgium signalled they were ready for more trouble by raising the
national terror alert level from two to three, the second-highest level.

"It shows we have to be extremely careful," Mr Van der Sypt said. The Verviers
suspects "were extremely well-armed men" equipped with automatic weapons, he
said. Authorities have previously said 300 Belgian residents have gone to fight
with extremist Islamic formations in Syria. It is unclear how many have
returned.

"It sent shivers down my spine to think about it" that the suspects could have
been trained in Syria, Mr Massaux said.

Prime minister Charles Michel said the increase in the threat level was "a
choice for prudence".

"There is no concrete or specific knowledge of new elements of threat," he said.

The suspects in Verviers opened fire on police when officers closed in on them
near the city's railway station, the magistrate said. There was an intense
firefight for several minutes.

Video posted online showed a dark view of a building amid blasts, gunshots and
sirens, and a fire with smoke billowing.

No police were wounded or killed in the clash, at the height of the evening rush
hour in a crowded neighbourhood of the former industrial city of 56,000, about
80 miles south east of the capital Brussels.

Earlier, authorities said they were looking into possible links between a man
they arrested in the southern city of Charleroi for illegal trade in weapons and
Amedy Coulibaly, who killed four people in a Paris kosher market last week.

The man arrested in Belgium "claims that he wanted to buy a car from the wife of
Coulibaly", Mr Van der Sypt said. "At this moment this is the only link between
what happened in Paris."

Mr Van der Sypt said that "of course, naturally" we are continuing the
investigation.

At first, the man came to police himself claiming there had been contact with
Coulibaly's common-law wife Hayat Boumeddiene regarding the car, but he was
arrested following a search of his premises when indications of illegal weapons
trading were found.

A Belgian connection figured in a 2010 French criminal investigation into a
foiled terrorist plot in which Coulibaly was one of the convicted
co-conspirators. The plotters included a Brussels-area contact who was supposed
to furnish both weapons and ammunition, according to French judicial documents
obtained by The Associated Press.

Several other countries are also involved in the hunt for possible accomplices
to Coulibaly and the other gunmen in the French attacks, brothers Cherif and
Said Kouachi.

In Spain, authorities said Coulibaly drove Boumeddiene from France to Madrid on
December 31 and was with her until she took a January 2 flight to Istanbul,
Turkey.

Spain's National Court said it was investigating what Coulibaly did in the
country's capital with Boumeddiene and a third person who was not identified but
is suspected of helping Boumeddiene get from Turkey to Syria.

France is on edge since last week's attacks, which began at the satirical
newspaper Charlie Hebdo. The paper, repeatedly threatened for its caricatures of
the Prophet Mohammed, buried several of its murdered staff members yesterday
even as it reprinted another weekly issue with Mohammed on its cover.

Defence sources said France was also under an unprecedented cyber-attack with
19,000 launched after the country's bloodiest terrorist attacks in decades,
frustrating authorities as they try to thwart repeat violence.

Around 120,000 security forces are deployed to prevent future attacks.

Calling it an unprecedented surge, Admiral Arnaud Coustilliere, head of
cyber-defence for the French military, said about 19,000 French websites had
been attacked in recent days, some carried out by well-known Islamic hacker
groups.

The attacks, mostly relatively minor denial-of-service attacks, hit sites as
varied as military regiments to pizza shops but none appeared to have caused
serious damage, he said. Military authorities launched round-the-clock
surveillance to protect the government sites still coming under attack.

The Kouachi brothers claimed allegiance to al Qaida in Yemen and Coulibaly to
the Islamic State group.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2015 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            January 16, 2015 Friday

Terrorist attack will alter France's path

BYLINE: Tuo Yannan in Paris, France

SECTION: DIGEST

LENGTH: 668 words


The terrorist attack at the Paris offices of French satirical magazine Charlie
Hebdo that killed 12 people will bring significant changes to the country's
political and social paths, said politicians and think tank experts.

Two gunmen attacked the magazine's offices on Jan 7, killing four of France's
top cartoonists in an act of revenge for the prophet Mohammed for Charlie
Hebdo's satire of him.

It was not the first time the magazine's offices have been attacked. In 2011,
its offices in Paris were bombed after it ran controversial cartoons of the
prophet.

Alain Marsaud, a former anti-terrorism judge and center-right politician, said
because of the latest attack, French right-wing parties will win the next
election as current left-wing President Francois Hollande loses support from
French voters.

"I believe that if we held a presidential election today, there is no doubt that
Jean-Marie Le Pen would win as president after the attacks," Marsaud explains.

Jean-Luc Marret, senior fellow at the defense and security think tank Fondation
pour la Recherche Strategique, says that while he doesn't see any adverse impact
to the French economy from the attack, he says the tragic event could polarize,
at least in the short term, the political fringes of Europe.

Josef Janning, senior policy fellow at the European Council on Foreign
Relations, says this is a major challenge to the police and legal systems around
Europe.

"Europeans are aware that the problem is not solved by killing this or that
figure in a rather decentralized milieu of extremists. Most policymakers know
that this cannot be won easily if it can be won at all. They will go for
increased security measures but not introduce fundamental changes like the
United States did with homeland security," Janning says.

As a longtime friend of slain Charlie Hebdo cartoonist Jean Cabut, retired
French general Eric de la Maisonneuve says France has swept the dirt under the
rug for far too long.

"This is a question between liberty and security, between secularity and
religion. It has existed for a long time in France. In the past we could still
handle it and now we can't deal with it anymore," he says.

"The number of immigrants has been growing rapidly over the last decades, but we
didn't take it into account. We still have been using the old policies of
integration to try to absorb them. And while it has worked when immigration
represented 5 or 6 percent of the French population, it just doesn't work
anymore when we have 10 percent or more."

Janning adds that "it seems that among the socially marginalized migrant
communities, even those born and raised in France or other European countries,
there are serious issues of identity and personal happiness".

De la Maisonneuve says France should adapt its immigration politics to the
current reality.

"The reason why we have such tragedy is because we didn't manage to take
immigration issue into the mainstream of society. They don't get good education
and they are just left on the fringes of the society. It's France who should be
responsible for this."

To solve the problem, De la Maisonneuve suggests that France should work more on
its laws and legislators.

"We should have always kept an eye on those who are engaged in terrorism. And
political measures in prison should be reviewed as well. Other countries should
not feel unconcerned. Terrorism is a global issue now. Everyone needs to help
each other. Given the important weight on the international stage, countries
like the United States and China should also make efforts to fight terrorism."

Janning says it may help to have religious instruction in schools by teachers of
Islam educated in Europe.

"Upward mobility in social terms would also help, it would require better
integration into the educational system and labor market. This will prevent
young people to fall into the trap of religious fanatics," he explains.

Sun Hang contributed to this story.

(China Daily European Weekly 01/16/2015 page3)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      January 16, 2015 Friday 8:09 AM GMT

Terror in Belgium: Two suspected terrorists killed and a third arrested in a
shoot-out with police;
THE fire-fight - in the town of Verviers close to the German border - broke out
as police mounted a series of raids amid fears an "operational cell" was about
to mount a major terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Lindsey Archibald

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 556 words


TWO suspected terrorists have been killed and a third arrested in a shoot-out
with police in Belgium, prosecutors have said.

The fire-fight - in the town of Verviers close to the German border - broke out
as police mounted a series of raids amid fears an "operational cell" was about
to mount a major terrorist attack.

A spokesman for the Belgian Federal Prosecutor said that they had been
investigating a group involving individuals who had recently returned from
Syria.

"During the search warrants in Verviers, certain suspects immediately opened
fire with automatic weapons," Eric Van der Sypt told a news conference in
Brussels.

Latest ISIS video threatens terror attacks in Belgium, the rest of Europe and
America

"They opened fire for several minutes before being neutralised. Two of the
suspects were killed. A third one has been arrested."

With the investigation continuing, the Belgium authorities last night said that
the country's terror alert level was being raised to its second highest level.

The incident comes little more than a week after Islamist terrorists in
neighbouring France killed 17 people in attacks on the satirical magazine
Charlie Hebdo and a kosher supermarket in Paris.

Mr Van der Sypt said there was no link at this stage to the events in the French
capital.

The Belgian authorities believe that the suspects were planning to target police
buildings in attacks which could have been carried out in a matter of days - or
even hours.

Eyewitnesses to the raid in Verviers described hearing a series of explosions
followed by rapid fire.

Marylou Fletcher, told the BBC: "We were going back from shopping and saw the
police cars. We thought there was an accident then we heard something blowing
up.

Footage from Verviers which police are said to have had a shoot out with jihadis
leaving 3 dead

"We started running but did not understand what had happened. There was a lot of
gun shots. My children cried. They are just terrified."

The area around the train station at Verviers was reported to have been cordoned
off and there were reports of a heavy police presence in the town centre.

Mr Van der Sypt said police had been acting on a series of around 10 warrants
relating to locations in Verviers and Brussels issued by an investigating
magistrate who specialises in terrorism cases.

Last night's raid was carried out with the support of Belgian security services
and "police special forces", he said. No police or members of the public were
injured.

Earlier, the Belgian authorities said they were looking into possible links
between a man arrested in the southern city of Charleroi for illegal arms
dealing and Amedy Coulibaly, the gunman who killed four people in a Paris kosher
market last week.

David Cameron, in Washington for talks with US President Barack Obama, said they
would be discussing the incident in Belgium.

"It's still early days in terms of getting information but it looks like yet
another indication of the huge risk that we face from Islamist extremist terror
in Europe after the attacks in Paris, after events here in America, now we see
this," he said

"We have to remain extremely vigilant, we have to take all the steps we can to
beat this evil."

Try your hand at our daily news quiz:

Quick Quiz: News 15/1/15

Follow the Daily Record on Facebook for all the latest news, sports &
entertainment updates

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 16, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Belgian police kill jihadists plotting a 'major attack';
Terror attacks

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 610 words


POLICE in Belgium killed two men and arrested another last night during a
counter-terrorism raid against a group suspected of planning a "major" attack.

The suspects immediately opened fire on police when special forces closed in on
them near the railway station in the eastern city of Verviers, near the border
with Germany, Eric Van der Sypt, a federal magistrate, said.

The arrested man was shot in the abdomen and seriously wounded.

"There was acute danger. The possible attack could have taken place within a
matter of hours," said Mr Van der Sypt.

There was "no link at this stage to the Paris attacks" last week which left 17
innocent people dead, he added. "The investigation started a few weeks ago
before the attacks in Paris, I would like to stress. They [the suspects] all
have Belgian nationality."

However, he added: "This operation stopped a major terrorist attack from taking
place. You could say a second potential Paris has been averted." The men were
known jihadists who had returned from Syria in the last month.

The Belgian secret service believed they were about to carry out an attack on a
police station and called in special forces. The successful operation will raise
questions in France about why the authorities were unable to take similar action
to prevent the attacks there.

Belgium is on alert across all police forces with a heightened warning for
Brussels and Antwerp.

Police searched more than 10 properties in Brussels, Verviers and
Halle-Vilvoorde as part of an investigation into extremists returning from
Syria, authorities said.

"We found that this group was about to commit a terrorist attack in Belgium," a
statement said. "When the search warrants were executed in Verviers the suspects
immediately opened fire with automatic weapons on special police forces. They
opened fire for several minutes before being neutralised."

No police or civilians were hurt. Residents in Verviers, in the east of the
country, heard machinegun shots and explosions. One said: "I heard two
explosions and saw two young men run away. They were between 25 and 30 years of
Arab origin."

Another told RTBF television: "I was just going to pick up my kids from school.
We saw a blue van and another car in the middle of the street. At first I
thought it was an accident. But then we saw police cars right down the street. A
man walking on the street fled. I started running. Immediately afterwards we
heard three or four large explosions and gunfire."

Earlier this week, police arrested Neetin Farasula, from Charleroi in southern
Belgium, who is thought to have been involved in negotiating the sale of guns to
Amedy Coulibaly, the Paris terrorist.

Faith Insulting religion is provocative, says Pope

The Pope has weighed in to the debate over freedom of expression in the wake of
the Paris attacks, saying that anyone who insults a religion can expect "a punch
on the nose".

In provocative remarks that may cause consternation in France, Pope Francis said
that freedom of expression had its limits.

He made the forthright comments to journalists on board his official plane as he
flew from Sri Lanka to the Philippines, the two stops on his week-long visit to
Asia.

Gesturing towards Alberto Gasparri, a Vatican official who was next to him on
board the plane, he said: "If my good friend Dr Gasparri says a curse word
against my mother, he can expect a punch on the nose."

Throwing a pretend punch, the Pope said: "It's normal. You cannot provoke. You
cannot insult the faith of others."

The Pope did not refer specifically to the Charlie Hebdo magazine, insisting
that violence carried out in God's name was "an aberration".

Nick Squires in Rome

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                            January 16, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Gunmen killed as terror plot foiled;
Fanatics poised to attack cops, says prosecutor

BYLINE: ANDY LINES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 357 words


TWO suspected jihadis died in a gun battle in Belgium last night as police
commandos acted to prevent a terrorist atrocity.

A third man who was wounded was arrested and was being held for questioning last
night.

The gunfight broke out when police pounced on the cell at a flat in the town of
Verviers, near the German border.

It is believed the men had recently returned from Islamic State training in
Syria. Federal prosecutor Eric Van Der Sypt said they were about to strike at
police targets within days or hours and were planning attacks on "a grand
scale".

Locals said shots were fired at police from a flat above a bakery. They returned
fire in a gunfight which lasted several minutes.

Van Der Sypt said: "The suspects immediately and for several minutes opened fire
with military weaponry and handguns on the units of the federal police before
they were neutralised."

Local reports quoted a police source as saying a "Belgian Charlie Hebdo" had
been stopped.

One witness to the raid, Marylou Fletcher, said: "We were going back from
shopping and saw the police cars. We thought there was an accident then we heard
something blowing up.

"We started running. There was a lot of gunshots. My children cried. They are
terrified."

The area around the train station at Verviers was reported to have been cordoned
off and there was a heavy police presence in the town centre.

One of the gunmen was thought to be a Chechen who was "active on the terrorist
scene," according to a police source.

Police in Belgium also carried out 10 operations in cities including Vilvoorde,
Brussels and Molenbeek-Saint-Jean. The security alert came on the same day
Belgian police arrested a man accused of selling weapons to Amedy Coulibaly, the
gunman in the Paris deli attack last week.

The Kalashnikovs and rocket launchers used by the Charlie Hebdo magazine killers
were also bought from gangs in Belgium.

Yesterday, the funerals of four of the people killed in the Charlie Hebdo
offices took place.

Friends and family paid last respects to cartoonists Bernard Verlhac, known as
Tignous, and Georges Wolinski, as well as columnist Elsa Cayat and policeman
Franck Brinsolaro.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STREETS OF FEAR Police and forensic officers comb the scene in the
Belgian town of Verviers after the shootout. Picture: John Thys/

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      January 16, 2015 Friday 11:02 PM GMT

Belgian raids reinforce fears of new terror attacks in Europe;
Belgium PM announces new counter-terror measures amid concern about radicalised
Muslims returning from war in Syria

BYLINE: Ian Traynor in Brussels

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 879 words


Thirteen jihadist suspects are in detention and two others are dead after one of
the biggest counter-terror operations mounted in Belgium foiled a sophisticated
plot to kill police, according to authorities.

Five suspects faced charges of taking part in "terrorist activities" on Friday
evening, but two were conditionally released.

Coming on top of the atrocities in Paris last week, the operations in Belgium
and France have reinforced fears that radicalised European Muslims returning
from the war in Syria are preparing a series of outrages in Europe. Senior EU
security officials met in Brussels on Friday to come up with new counter-terror
measures to be put to an EU summit next month.

The Belgian government announced 12 measures to combat the threat of attacks.
"Vigilance, but no need for panic," said the Belgian prime minister, Charles
Michel.

Following a brief gun battle on Thursday evening that left two alleged militants
dead in the eastern town of Verviers, Eric van der Sypt, the spokesman for
Belgium's federal prosecutor's office, said: "There were plans to assassinate
police on the streets. It could have been hours and certainly no more than a day
or two [before the attacks occurred]."

The raids in Verviers and in and around Brussels resulted in a haul of police
uniforms, forged identification documents, substantial amounts of money, four
Kalashnikovs, handguns, a knife, ammunition, explosives and communications
equipment.

Thirteen arrests were made at different locations in Belgium, and a further two
people were detained in France at Belgium's request. All were implicated in the
same plot to kill police, the prosecutor's office said.

"We're pleased with the outcome in that we arrested a lot of terrorists. We gave
an important blow to terrorism in Belgium," said Van der Sypt.

On Friday morning the prosecutor's office said all 15 were detained as terrorism
suspects. But by Friday night only three had been remanded in custody. Two of
those also accused of terrorism activity were freed conditionally.

The authorities said many of those arrested, and the two killed in Verviers, had
recently been fighting in Syria. None of those arrested nor the two dead men
were formally identified.

The two men who were killed when police stormed a flat were named by local media
and were said to be well-known militants in the town.

But on Friday night, citing police sources, De Standaard newspaper said the two
were not resident in Verviers and had been using the flat raided by police as a
safe house.

Another man who was hit in the abdomen in the shootout and then arrested denied
he had anything to do with terrorism. His mother and family members were also
briefly detained. But he was among the three remanded.

He was named on Belgian websites as Marouane E. His lawyer, Didier de Quévy,
said the suspect had no knowledge of terrorism plans, had never been to Syria,
had no criminal record and had been at the scene of the shootout in connection
with drugs.

The magistrate in charge of the terror investigation, Isabelle Panou, ordered
the man to be held in custody, possibly facing five terrorism-related charges.

Most of those arrested were Belgian nationals, including the two in France. With
Belgium on its second highest state of alert and following the Paris attacks
that included the murder of four people at a kosher supermarket, the country's
Jewish community was acutely on edge. The main Flemish city of Antwerp boasts a
large, thriving Jewish community, the only one left on the continent speaking
traditional Yiddish.

The main Jewish schools and synagogues were closed in Brussels and Antwerp on
Friday, and Brussels' Jewish radio station halted broadcasting for the first
time in more than three decades.

Avraham Gigi, a rabbi and Jewish community leader, deplored the shutdown of
Jewish institutions. "Today we closed synagogues and schools. This shows that
there is fear ... It's as if we've submitted to what's happening," he told
Israeli radio. "This is a big mistake. For all this time, despite all the
problems that we had, we were proud that all the Jewish institutions were open
and working. We were not deterred by events."

It was clear that the investigation and surveillance of the suspects were only a
few weeks old - Van der Sypt described the operation as having lasted weeks
rather than months. The investigation was continuing, but he said: "We've
arrested the people we wanted to arrest."

Michel, the prime minister, announced tightened counter-terrorism measures,
including deploying the army if needed on internal security duties. "The army is
available to guarantee security," he said.

He announced 12 measures to tackle terrorism and radicalism. Travelling abroad
for militant purposes will be criminalised and the legal scope for withdrawing
citizenship will be extended. Identity cards and passports could be confiscated
for at least three months and assets of suspects could be frozen.

Rules decided last year on "foreign fighters" will be tightened and simplified,
and prison reforms will be introduced after the growing realisation across
Europe that jails are becoming a place of radicalisation for incarcerated young
Muslims. There were also unspecified reforms and greater powers for the security
and intelligence services.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      January 16, 2015 Friday 8:38 PM GMT

Terror attacks in Europe: the five danger zones;
Security experts believe jihadis returning from Syria are most likely to be
plotting attacks in five western European countries

BYLINE: Jason Rodrigues

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 792 words


Last week's attacks in Paris and this week's arrests in Belgium and Germany have
thrown the spotlight on to jihadis returning from Syria to hatch terror plots in
Europe. The five countries deemed to be at most risk of attack are Belgium,
France, Germany, the UK and the Netherlands.

Belgium

                     Nationals who have fought in Syria 250

Recent terrorist incidents and arrests

15 January 2015  Two suspected jihadists are killed by Belgian conter-terrorism
police in the town of Verviers. A third is arrested. Thirteen others suspected
of some involvement in terror activities are subsequently detained. Two men
suspected of involvement have also been arrested in France.

24 May 2014 Mehdi Nemmouche, a suspected jihadist, kills four people at the
Brussels Jewish Museum before escaping. Nemmouche, from Roubaix, France, is said
to have been under surveillance by French counter-terrorism police since his
return from Syria, where he is believed to have fought alongside Islamist
groups.

Ongoing trials of terrorism suspects

October 2014 Members of Sharia4Belgium go on trial in Antwerp accused of
"brainwashing" young Belgian Muslims to go and fight with jihadists in Syria.

France

                     Nationals who have fought in Syria 700

Recent terrorist incidents and arrests

7-9 January 2015                     Two gunmen attack Charlie Hebdo magazine,
killing 12. The following day, a policewoman is shot dead near Paris by a gunman
linked to the Charlie Hebdo attackers. All three gunmen are killed after being
cornered by police. Denouement also results in four hostages being killed at
Jewish grocery store in Paris. At least 12 people have been arrested in
anti-terrorism raids in the Paris area in the wake of the Charlie Hebdo attacks.

21 December 2014 A man shouting "Allahu Akbar" (God is great) deliberately
drives his car at pedestrians in Dijon, injuring 11 pepole before being
arrested.

20 December 2014 Bertrand Nzohabonayo, a former rapper from Burundi who had
converted to Islam, is shot dead after carrying out a knife attack in a police
station near the city of Tours, injuring several officers. Nzohabonayo
reportedly cried "Allahu Akbar" during the attack.

28 August 2014                     Police arrest an alleged French-Algerian
terrorist in Cannes after a raid uncovers almost a kilogram of the high
explosive TATP in his family's Cannes apartment building.

Ongoing trials of terrorism suspects

None reported.

Germany

                     Nationals who have fought in Syria 270

Recent terrorist incidents and arrests

January 16 2015 Two people detained following a raid on 12 homes and a mosque. A
police spokesman says the suspects are probably part of an extremist cell that
recruited fighters for Syria.

Ongoing trials of terrorism suspects

October 2014 20-year-old man confesses to fighting with IS in Syria.

November 2014 Second trial starts of a man suspected of fighting alongside Isis.


UK

                     Nationals who have fought in Syria 400

Recent terrorist incidents and arrests

November 2014 Scotland Yard commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe claims that
"four of five" terror attacks have been foiled in the weeks leading up to
November 2014.

Ongoing trials of terrorism suspects

October 2014 Erol Incedal, accused of plotting a terror attack on the streets of
the UK, may have been targeting Tony Blair and his wife. He is expected to
appear in court again this year after the jury was discharged in a largely
secret trial.

Netherlands

                     Nationals who have fought in Syria 400

Recent terrorist incidents and arrests

September 2014                     Security levels are raised after a Dutch
national fighting in Syria calls on his "brothers in the Netherlands and
Belgium" to take action. Security experts claim that there could be at least 20
terror cells on standby in Europe, several of them likely to be based in
Holland.

Ongoing trials of terrorist suspects

None reported.

Sources: International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation and Political
Violence, the Economist, the Guardian

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      January 16, 2015 Friday 2:09 AM GMT

PM's plans to monitor encrypted messages 'would turn UK into China';
Magazine points to 'lone wolf' trend in terror attacks as David Cameron defends
proposal on visit to Washington

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt in Washington

SECTION: POLITICS

LENGTH: 607 words


A better-quality debate needs to be held on state surveillance powers, David
Cameron has said after the conservative-leaning Spectator magazine warned that
Britain is in danger of ending up like China and Russia where encrypted
communications are banned.

The prime minister, who was speaking in Washington before he opened two days of
talks with Barack Obama over dinner at the White House last night, called for a
raising of the quality of debate in the wake of the Spectator article.

Cameron spoke out after the Spectator challenged his plans to create a legal
framework to allow the intelligence agencies to break into the encrypted
communications of terror suspects on the grounds that the Paris attackers were
working on their own.

The Spectator wrote: "If anything, the trend in terrorism is towards more
lone-wolf attacks. It is far from clear how they can be countered, but one thing
is for sure: it is not through surveillance. Unless in the habit of talking to
themselves, lone wolves have not much need to communicate their plans."

The prime minister said: "We have a very robust system. The public would expect
us to be able, in extremis, under the law with all these conditions in place to
be able to try to prevent terrorist outrages ... If you read the Spectator this
week there is an assertion that because we are dealing with line wolf attacks,
lone wolves don't communicate with anybody and so all these powers are
meaningless. That is so far off the truth ... we need to up the quality of the
debate."

Cameron defended his plans to create a new legal framework to allow the agencies
to keep pace with technological changes as they seek to maintain access to the
data and content of communications.

He said: "The principle we should adopt is that there shouldn't be a safe space
for terrorists to communicate. When we first established a system for sending
letters to people, then fixed telephone communications to people and then mobile
telephone communications to people - the view of the British parliament and the
British government, rather similar to the US, was in extremis, under the law
under a signed a warrant it should be possible to look at the content of a
communication to keep people safe.

"This is something done within a very clear legal framework we have in the UK.
There are two issues. There is communications data - the information about when
a phone call was made, who to, who from. We obviously need to make sure that is
modernised in the internet age. The second set of issues is around the actual
intercepting of the content of a call or a communication which again has to be
modernised in the internet age."

Cameron added: "Post Snowden, everyone assumes there are all sorts of activities
going on outside the law. That is not the case. There is a legal framework in
the UK for everything that happens. I think there isn't this conflict, that some
people say, between liberty and security. In order to maintain our liberty we
need to have proper security. This security is provided within the law and the
proper legal framework."

The Spectator was scathing about his plans. It wrote: "He wants to ban all kinds
of encrypted communications which the security forces struggle to decipher. 'I
think we cannot allow modern forms of communication to be exempt from the
ability, in extremis, with a warrant signed by the home secretary, to be
listened to,' he said.

"The implication is that Britain could end up joining the group of countries,
which includes Russia, China and Iran, where using services such as Snapchat and
WhatsApp - which encrypt messages in just the way David Cameron suggests - is
forbidden."

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Herts Mercury

                            January 16, 2015 Friday

Poet's tribute to Paris terrorist attack victims

SECTION: NEWS:CRIME; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 137  words


A POET has put pen to paper in tribute to those who died in the Paris terrorist
attacks.

Tony Gorman, 68, from Waltham Cross, said he wrote A Future Script "in support
of all fellow writers and in support of all the families who lost their loved
ones".

He told the Mercury: "The horrendous happenings in France of last week and the
show of unity by the French people in their quest for freedom of speech inspired
me to write my poem."

The poem begins: "Freedom of speech be it oral or pen/

Has been a law instigated since the creation of men/ And those who oppose must
have something to hide/ Afraid of exposure on their slippery slide."

Mr Gorman, who has previously published a collection of work entitled Poems of
Reality: At One With Life, bases most of his works on world events.

To see the full poem, visit the Mercury website

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                January 16, 2015
                                 First Edition

Two suspects killed by police as 'large-scale terrorist attack' is foiled;
BELGIUM

BYLINE: Cahal Milmo and Charlotte McDonald-Gibson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 423 words


A "large-scale" terrorist attack by alleged jihadists in Belgium was foiled
after police carried out a series of raids last night, including one that turned
into a firefight in which two suspects were killed, officials said.

A week after the attacks on Paris which left 20 people dead, Belgium's security
services were sent in to 10 properties in the Brussels area and Verviers in the
country's east.

Witnesses to the operation in Verviers described a barrage of explosions and
multiple gunshots as police entered a building close to the town's railway
station shortly before 6pm local time. Sharpshooters were also seen on nearby
rooftops.

The raid was targeted against a group of three young men who had recently
returned from Syria and had been under surveillance, according to the Belgian
authorities. Two men were killed and a third was arrested. There were also
several other arrests during raids in other parts of the country.

The federal prosecutor, Eric Van Der Sypt, told reporters that Belgian police
and special forces launched the operation yesterday evening after receiving
information that a cell was poised to launch a "large-scale" terror strike.

He said that as soon as police launched the raid in central Verviers "certain
suspects immediately opened fire with automatic weapons at special forces of the
police".

Mr Van Der Sypt said the gunfire went on "for several minutes" before two
suspects were shot dead and a third was arrested. He said that no police or
passers-by were injured.

While the authorities would give no further information about the investigation
or reveal the identities of the suspects, they said they would be raising the
national security alert level. A Belgian news agency reported last night that
police had been hunting a man who witnesses said brandished a weapon and shouted
religious slogans in Arabic at a Brussels metro station. Officials said it was
not thought at this stage that the suspected cell had any links to those behind
last week's attacks in Paris on the offices of Charlie Hebdo and a kosher
grocery store.

Prior to events in Verviers, the Belgian authorities had announced the arrest of
a man in Charleroi, close to the French border, on suspicion of supplying
ammunition to Amedy Coulibaly, the gunman responsible for shooting dead four
Jews in the Hyper Cacher supermarket in Paris on Friday.

The events in Belgium took place as France's President François Hollande vowed
to protect Muslims and the Pope intervened in the debate by saying there were
limits to freedom of expression.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2015 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 16, 2015 Friday 8:11 AM GMT

French turn to tranquilisers in wake of Paris terror attacks;
Health firms claim to have seen an almost 20 per cent rise in requests for drugs

BYLINE: Rose Troup Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 317 words


In the wake of the Paris terror attacks French people are apparently turning to
tranquilisers in record numbers.

Researchers claimed that sales of anti-anxiety drugs and sleeping pills rose
almost 20 per cent between Friday and Tuesday, according to The Times.

French health data consultancy firm Celtipharm contacted 4,800 chemists and
noticed there had been an 18.2 per cent rise: they claimed there was no
precedent anywhere in the world.

"This type of phenomenon has never been observed before," the firm's chief
executive Patrick Guerin told The Times.

read more: France hit by 19,000 cyberattacks since Paris shootingsParis kosher
supermarket hero Lassan Bathily 'to receive French citizenship'Comment: The
Paris march was a perfect tribute to satireProfile: Charlie Hebdo cartoonist
Philippe Honoré

Roughly one in six French people take tranquilisers occasionally, and apparently
many rushed to their local chemists for an extra box following events in Paris
last week.

The massacre of eight journalists at the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, along
with two policemen, a caretaker and a visitor to the company sparked a chain of
events that shocked France and transfixed the world last week.

Charlie Hebdo: Mourning in Paris

The two gunmen were killed during a seven-hour standoff with French security
police, as another extremist - speculated to have been linked to the first two -
murdered four hostages in a Jewish grocery store before also being killed by
officers.

The attacks brought millions of ordinary citizens - and world leaders - onto the
streets on Sunday to protest the perceived attack on freedom of speech.

Retailers are also feeling the aftereffects of the attacks: around Paris there
were 10 per cent fewer shoppers in the days following events compared to the
previous year.

Individuals who did shop spent less, compared to the same period in 2014
nationwide takings were down 8.3 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 16, 2015 Friday
                                 First Edition

Belgian police foil terror attack;
Two suspected jihadists are killed after gunfight with police who believe series
of raids across the country has prevented a 'large-scale' terror strike. CAHAL
MILMO and CHARLOTTE MCDONALD-GIBSON report Hollande promises to protect Muslims
in wake of Paris

BYLINE: CAHAL MILMO and CHARLOTTE MCDONALD-GIBSON

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 936 words


A "large-scale" terrorist attack by alleged jihadists in Belgium was foiled
after police carried out a series of raids yesterday. One raid ended in a
firefight in which two suspects were killed, officials said.

A week after the attacks in Paris which left 20 people dead, Belgian anti-terror
police stormed 10 properties in the Brussels area and Verviers in the country's
east.

Witnesses in Verviers described a barrage of explosions and multiple gunshots as
police entered a building close to the town's railway station shortly before 6pm
local time. Sharpshooters were also seen on rooftops.

The raid targeted three young men who recently returned from Syria and had been
under surveillance, according to the authorities. Two men were killed and a
third was arrested. There were several other arrests during the raids in other
parts of the country.

The federal prosecutor, Eric Van Der Sypt, told reporters that police and
special forces launched the operation after receiving information that a cell
was poised to launch a "large-scale" terror strike.

He said that as soon as police launched the raid in central Verviers "certain
suspects immediately opened fire with automatic weapons at special forces of the
police".

Mr Van Der Sypt said the gunfire went on "for several minutes" before two
suspects were shot dead and a third was arrested. He said that no police or
passers-by were wounded.

While the authorities would give no further information about the investigation
or reveal the identities of the suspects, they said they would be raising the
national security alert level.

A Belgian news agency reported that police had been hunting a man who witnesses
said brandished a weapon and shouted religious slogans in Arabic at a Brussels
metro station. Officials said it was not thought at this stage that the suspects
were linked to those behind last week's attacks in Paris on the offices of
Charlie Hebdo magazine and a kosher grocery store, which claimed the lives of
three terrorists and their 17 victims.

Before the raid in Verviers, the Belgian authorities had announced the arrest of
a man in Charleroi, close to the French border, on suspicion of supplying
ammunition to Amedy Coulibaly, the gunman who shot dead four Jews in the Hyper
Cacher supermarket in Paris on Friday.

The man voluntarily surrendered himself to police, claiming he had conned
Coulibaly in a deal to buy a car but denying any involvement in arms sales.

Belgium was targeted by jihadists in May last year when a gunman shot dead four
people at a Jewish museum in Brussels.

Mehdi Memmouche, 29, a Frenchman who had previously acted as a jailer to Western
hostages for Isis in Syria, is awaiting trial for the killings.

Belgium is the European country with the highest proportion of its citizens
fighting for the Syrian rebels in the past four years.

Yesterday's events took place as President François Hollande of France vowed to
protect Muslims in the wake of the Charlie Hebdo murders and the Pope intervened
in the debate about the Paris attacks by saying there were limits to freedom of
expression.

The funerals of four of the 12 people killed in the magazine's offices were held
as France continued to grapple with the aftermath of the attacks. Mr Hollande
used a speech at the Institute of the Arab World in Paris to emphasise that
Muslims were the "first victims of fanaticism, fundamentalism and intolerance"
and that while France would protect them there would also be no compromise on
its commitment to freedom and democracy.

The President, seeking to strike a balance between safeguarding Europe's largest
Muslim population and the principles of free speech, said: "French of the Muslim
faith have the same rights and duties as all citizens."

But Pope Francis placed a different emphasis on the interpretation of freedom of
expression, saying that while it was a fundamental right it also carried limits,
particularly when it came to insulting the beliefs of others.

Copies of the "survivors' issue" of Charlie Hebdo, the first since last week's
killings, sold out for the second day running in France yesterday. A total of
five million copies of the magazine, which carries - as it has in the past - a
cartoon of the Prophet Mohamed on its front page, have been printed, sparking
protests in some Muslim countries including Pakistan.

Speaking as he travelled to the Philippines, Pope Francis said free speech
brought with it a duty to speak for the common good. He said: "You cannot
provoke. You cannot insult the faith of others. You cannot make fun of the faith
of others."

The interior ministry in Paris meanwhile announced that it was fast-tracking
French nationality for a Malian Muslim who hid shoppers from the gunman.

Lassana Bathily, a 24-year-old shop attendant, was hailed as a hero after he hid
several people in the kosher store's freezer and then managed to escape the
store to give police information about the actions of the gunman. He will
receive his citizenship personally from Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve next
week.

The aftermath of the Paris attacks has also provoked an unprecedented cyber
attack on 19,000 French websites. Arnaud Coustillière, head of cyber defence for
the French armed forces, said the attacks had hit the websites of targets from
military regiments to pizza shops and some had been carried out by known
Islamist hacker groups.

They included, officials said, groups called Meca (Middle East Cyber Army) and
the "Cyber Caliphate". Mr Coustillière said that while the majority of the
incidents appeared to be minor denial-of-service attacks, the scale of the
onslaught had never been seen before.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 16, 2015 Friday 1:18 PM GMT

Europe's top rabbis petition the EU demanding new laws that allow Jews to carry
guns to protect themselves in the wake of recent terror attacks

BYLINE: CHRIS PLEASANCE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 514 words



     ·    Rabbi Menachem Margolin said it is 'time to stop talking and start
          acting'
     ·    Asked for law to allow 'designated' Jews to be armed for
          'self-defence'
     ·    Comes after organistations warn of rising tide of anti-Semitism in
          Europe


One of Europe's largest Jewish associations has written a letter to EU ministers
asking for gun laws to be relaxed to allow Jews to arm themselves to protect
against terror attacks.

Rabbi Menachem Margolin, the head of the European Jewish Association, made the
request in the wake of the Paris attacks in which four Jews were killed inside a
deli in the French capital.

In the letter, dated January 13, he asks for permission for 'people in the
Jewish communities and institutions to own weapons' to protect against
'anti-Semitism, racism, and intolerance'.

Mr Margolin, who is also the head of the Rabbinical Centre of Europe, speaks of
the need 'stop talking and start acting' while seeking to reassure ministers by
saying the guns will be for 'self-protection only'.

The letter speaks about the need for protection after Islamist Amedy Coulibaly
gunned down four Jewish shoppers in cold blood in a Paris deli last Friday
before he was shot by armed police.

The fanatic said he had deliberately chosen a Jewish shop, claiming his victims
were legitimate targets in revenge for the deaths of Muslims in Palestine.

Police later found he had maps showing the locations of Jewish schools in Paris.



Hundreds of armed police have been dispatched to guard Jewish schools around
France since the attacks last week, with military units standing in reserve.

The letter also comes amid warnings of a tide of antisemitism across France as a
Jewish emigration agency warned a record 15,000 Jews are expected to flee the
country for Israel this year.

In 2014 a total of 7,086 Jews emigrated from France to Israel, the highest
number in the world, up from 3,293 in 2013.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has set up committee to look at ways
of boosting Jewish immigration from France and other EU countries 'which are
being hit by terrible anti-Semitism'.

Netanyahu's said that every Jew who wanted to move to Israel would be 'welcomed
with a warm heart and open arms.'

In Britain, a survey also found that half of Britons believed at least one
antisemetic value to be 'definitely or probably true' when presented with a list
of statements.

One in eight believed Jews talked about the Holocaust to get sympathy, one in
four believed Jewish people 'chase money more than others', while one in six
felt Jews thought they were better than other people.

Nobody from the European Council of Ministers was immediately available for
comment on the letter when contacted by Mail Online this afternoon.

Mr Margolin was also unavailable to speak with Mail Online, but told the
Washington Beacon: 'We demanded from the European governments some time ago that
action should be taken [and] were not surprised to see the results in Paris.

'Many people today are not coming to synagogue because of the issue and they'd
be more comfortable if they knew people were trained to react in an emergency.'

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 16, 2015 Friday 12:05 AM GMT

Delhi top cop warns of aerial terror attacks during Republic Day

BYLINE: MAHENDER SINGH MANRAL

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 375 words


Ahead of the Republic Day parade during which US President Barack Obama will be
the chief guest, Delhi Police Commissioner B.S. Bassi has warned of possible
terror attacks in the national Capital by means of paragliders or drones.

At a recent meeting, the top cop informed all the police personnel to be
cautious about possible aerial attacks in their areas. Bassi also ordered the
police personnel to shoot if they found any suspicious drone in their areas.

A joint commissioner of police, who attended the meeting, told Mail Today that
the special security- related meeting was called by Bassi on Monday where all
the district heads, along with assistant commissioners of police and station
house officers participated.

"Bassi shared the latest intelligence input and said that an Intelligence Bureau
report on Sunday said that terrorists and anti-social elements may carry out the
attacks using a drone controlled with a remote. There is a strong possibility
that terrorists may attack by means of paragliders, remote-controlled micro
light aircraft in and around Rajpath and India Gate during the Republic Day
parade, he said. Bassi then asked all the police personnel to ensure that no
remote-controlled aerial device could get used in their areas," the officer
said.

Bassi also told his force that there are specific intelligence inputs about
possible terror attack on Delhi-Kabul flight, Lahore-Amritsar bus, Lahore- Delhi
bus and Samjhauta Express, two prominent five-star hotels situated in New Delhi
district area, private international school in Delhi and the embassies,
especially the US embassy in Chanakyapuri area.

Sources said that Bassi and Special Commissioner of Police (Law and Order)
Deepak Mishra were not happy with the performance of Delhi Police personnel.
They also ordered that all criminals be nabbed with a sense of urgency.

"According to a fresh Intelligence Bureau input, Indian Mujahideen could be in
the process of planning a terrorist attack in Delhi, and Lashkar-e- Jhangvi
(LeJ) of Pakistan was planning a 26/11-type terror attack in Delhi," a source
said. "Some inputs also stated that Lashkar-e-Taiba is re-organising its
external operations group tasked with assassinating VIPs in the Capital," the
source added.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            January 16, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Two suspects shot dead as Belgium defuses plot for 'huge terror attacks'

BYLINE: DANIEL BINNS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 270 words


ARMED police in Belgium claim to have averted 'terror attacks on a grand scale'
after killing two suspects in a raid last night.

A third suspected Islamist militant was also injured when officers stormed a
flat above a bakery in the eastern city of Verviers, near Liege.

The suspects opened fire with automatic weapons and the gun battle with officers
lasted for several minutes.

Two men were killed and the third was wounded and then arrested, said federal
prosecutor Eric van der Sypt.

He said the operation was launched as part of an investigation into a suspected
terror cell of men who had recently returned from Syria.

Mr van der Sypt told a press conference they were thought to be planning
imminent 'terrorist attacks on a grand scale' on Belgian soil.

A video of the raid on YouTube showed flames shooting from the flat as officers
fired at the suspects.

An eyewitness named Yilmaz, 41, told La Libre Belgique newspaper: 'I heard two
explosions. I left, then I saw two young men running. [They were] Arab-looking
between 25 and 30. They headed towards the Pakistani and Afghan quarter. I
called the police.' Meanwhile, officers secured warrants to search ten addresses
across Belgium, with raids also being reported in Halle-Vilvoorde and Brussels.

A HEROIC Muslim immigrant who hid six people in a freezer during a terrorist
attack on a Jewish supermarket in Paris is to be rewarded with French
citizenship. Malian national Lassana Bathily's citizenship application, which he
filed in July, is to be fast-tracked, interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve said.
He was supported by a 300,000-strong petition.

BRUSSELS VERVIERS

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drama: The town of Verviers was in shock last nightRaid: Riot police
block a road in Verviers after officers smashed the terror cell PICTURE: EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 New Statesman

                                January 16, 2015

Leader: the Charlie Hebdo attack and the terror next time

BYLINE: New Statesman

SECTION: Vol. 144 No. 5244 ISSN: 1364-7431

LENGTH: 764 words



HIGHLIGHT: To overreact to what happened in Paris   to indulge in grandiose
declarations about wars between civilisations or to turn Britain into a
surveillance state   would further encourage the terrorists to believe that they
are winning. They are not.


The well-planned and murderous attacks in Paris in which 17 people were killed
by Kalashnikov-wielding Islamist militants provoked worldwide outrage and
revulsion. There was an outpouring of sympathy for and expressions of solidarity
with the murdered journalists of Charlie Hebdo, the once obscure and struggling
satirical magazine that emerged out of the countercultural upheavals of the late
1960s and that has long delighted in wilful provocation and shattering of
taboos.

If the French-Algerian Kouachi brothers and their sponsors wished to silence
Charlie Hebdo, which offended many Muslims by publishing cartoons of the Prophet
Muhammad, their failure could not have been greater. On 14 January, the magazine
published a 16-page special edition, which had a print run of three million, and
the paper has been flooded with donations from media groups. If it did not
before, the world now knows all about Charlie Hebdo and what it represents.

Left to its own devices or ignored, it might well have gone out of business. As
it stands, Charlie Hebdo will be able to go on blaspheming, offending and
defending the values of the French republic. One does not have to agree with all
of its ultra-left-libertarian editorial decisions to be greatly cheered by this,
as well as the courage of its surviving staff.

The attack by the Kouachi brothers  associate Amedy Coulibaly on a kosher
supermarket on 9 January, in which four Jewish men were murdered, was yet
another reminder of the vulnerability of Jews, wherever they happen to be in the
world. Already the vast majority of Jews have left, or have been forced to
leave, North Africa and the Arab Middle East, where millions once lived even as
recently as the 1950s (there are small communities remaining in a few countries,
such as Iran and Turkey). It is estimated there are 1.1 million Jews in the
European Union, mostly in France and Britain. How safe must they feel in the
present environment?

The Kouachi brothers said that they did not kill civilians, from which one
concludes that as well as the military the terrorists considered the police,
journalists and, in the case of Coulibaly, Jews to be legitimate targets in
their war against the secular west. Small wonder that more and more Jews are
choosing to emigrate from France to Israel because of the way anti-Semitism has
poisoned the culture.

How vulnerable is Britain to comparable attacks? As Andrew Hussey, a Paris-based
academic and the author of The French Intifada, explains in this week s
magazine, the attacks have to be understood in the context of the peculiarities
and specificities of France s relationship with its Arabs and its former
colonies. French colonialism, the Algerian civil war and its long, violent
aftermath, the alienation felt by many Muslim youths living in the impoverished
banlieue   the zones surrounding cities such as Paris and Lyons   high
unemployment, the failures of post-colonial integration: all have contributed to
a sense of a nation at war with itself.

Yet, throughout the world, atrocities and the mass murder of civilians are being
committed by those who claim to act in the name of Islam, from Boko Haram in
Nigeria to the Taliban in Pakistan and Afghanistan. Militant Islamism is one of
the great transnational evils and it thrives in states of disorder and where the
rule of law has broken down.

Britain has endured attacks   from the London bombings of 7 July 2005 to the
brutal murder of Fusilier Lee Rigby in Woolwich, south London, in 2013   and
will do so again. But we should treat with scepticism the alarmist
pronouncements of those such as Andrew Parker, the head of MI5, who, in a speech
on 8 January, warned that Britain was at risk of an imminent attack from
al-Qaeda or one of its affiliates. He used his speech to ask for the security
services to be granted enhanced access to surveillance of digital
communications, to which David Cameron seems more than happy to accede. The
issue of how to balance the competing needs of security and liberty remains as
difficult as ever.

British jihadis are as opposed to the values of a free press and the open
society as the Kouachi brothers and their like. They wish to destroy our way of
life and change our behaviour and we should not let them. The best way to combat
their extremism is through vigilance, patience and a benign reassertion of
liberal values.

To overreact, to indulge in grandiose declarations about wars between
civilisations or to turn Britain into a surveillance state would further
encourage the terrorists to believe that they are winning. They are not.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                       Copyright 2015 New Statesman Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Nottingham Post

                            January 16, 2015 Friday

Two dead as 'large-scale' terror attacks foiled

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 40-41

LENGTH: 188  words


BELGIAN police have killed two men suspected of planning to launch imminent
"large-scale" terrorist attacks.

They died during one of about 10 raids carried out against alleged Islamist
extremists thought to have returned from fighting in the Syrian civil war, Sky
News reported.

Suspects opened fire on police before being killed in the raid in the eastern
town of Verviers and no officers or civilians were hurt, according to a
prosecutor.

Eric Van Der Sypt said: "The suspects immediately and for several minutes opened
fire with military weaponry and handguns on the special units of the federal
police before they were neutralised."

One person was arrested and there were reports he had been injured in the raid
but that has not been confirmed.

Belgium's public broadcaster RTBF said the raid was on an apartment above a
bakery and explosions and gunfire were apparently heard near the train station.

The website of La Meuse newspaper quoted an unidentified police officer as
saying: "We've averted a Belgian Charlie Hebdo."

The French satirical magazine was attacked last week by brothers Said and Cherif
Kouachi, who killed 12 people.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 16, 2015 Friday 10:29 PM GMT

How Belgium prevented a 'second Paris' - and what more it can do prevent future
terror attacks;
Big Question: Belgian police, judiciary and intelligence have proved to work
effectively together, but what security forces need is resources and a sound
legal background to arrest suspects to avoid another Charlie Hebdo-style attack

BYLINE: By Pascal Carlucci, King's College London

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 836 words


On Thursday night, Belgian special forces raided an apartment in Verviers where
suspected terrorists were plotting terror attacks against police officers . They
killed two of the suspected jihadists and arrested one.

The plot was discovered after suspicious calls were intercepted and the police
raid at Verviers was the result of a vast police operation launched to arrest
the suspects.

But what more can Belgium, and other Western countries, do to prevent another
Charlie Hebdo-style killing ?

Investigation

Like France, Belgium has been communicating details of the investigation and the
raid through its judicial authorities, giving the image of a rule of law
response.

This is important because Belgian police, judiciary and intelligence have proved
to work effectively together.

Phone interception has been a crucial element of the investigation to prevent
terrorist attacks in Belgium.

This raises again the need of better - not necessarily increased - surveillance
mechanisms that would allow acquiring a mass of information necessary to
identify the largest number of suspects and information related to planned
activities.

Better surveillance - as opposed to increased surveillance - requires close
cooperation with judicial authorities, a sound legal framework and better
management of investigative means available.

Police cannot rely solely on surveillance as terrorists will rapidly adjust to
this investigative posture. In light of past controversies regarding prevention
of terrorist attacks, public opinion must be informed that when the
investigation reaches an appropriate volume of information, police will promptly
prevent attack.

But with safeguards on privacy, surveillance remains an effective anti­terror
tactic.

Police response

Special police units and a vast police operation were essential in dealing with
a very difficult situation.

As opposed to French police forces that have operated under the scrutiny of
global media, the Belgian police had the advantage of operating in secret.

The operation in Verviers was coordinated by the federal attorney Frederic Van
Leeuw with the support of the counterterrorism cell of the Federal Police and
other security agencies.

The police has carried out other operations and searches in Belgium. Once again,
availability of human resources and specialised units has proven to be an
effective element of success.

Tackling jihad

There is a growing need to take longer-term, strategic actions to prevent the
terrorist threat within Europe.

It is clear that suspects that have been fighting in Iraq and Syria committing
acts of terrorism represent a particular threat.

What security forces need is resources and a sound legal background to arrest
suspects.

Belgium this week presented a series of measures to tackle this criminal
phenomenon:

1. Traveling abroad for terrorist purposes as a criminal offence

2. Extension of the list of crimes (i.e. terrorist recruitment, provocation to
commit acts of terrorism) requiring special investigative techniques

3. Extension of cases in which nationality can be revoked

4. Temporary withdrawal of identity cards and passports

5. Freezing of assets for people involved in terrorism financing

6. Revision of measures concerning foreign fighters

7. Improvement of information exchange

8. Review of radicalisation measures

9. Measures to fight radicalisation in prisons

10. Reform of intelligence agencies

11. Military support for specific tasks

12. Enhancement of the state's analytical capabilities

Belgium is taking serious steps to update the security measures to prevent
terrorist attacks in his territory.

Terrorist tactics will change with time, so countries have to be flexible by
constantly updating measures and, if possible, anticipating future developments.

Radicalisation on the other hand requires clarity in terms of definition of the
problem, constant engagement with communities, social actions to recuperate
radicalised individuals and direct actions to disrupt the sources of radical
narratives.

If police are provided with efficient means to fight this catastrophic criminal
phenomenon, our way of life can be preserved - and the dangers of populism and
xenophobic behaviour disrupted.

Pascal Carlucci is a PhD researcher at Defence Studies Department at King's
College London. He focuses on irregular warfare and criminal networks. Follow
him on Twitter @PascalCarlucci

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 16, 2015 Friday 7:42 PM GMT

Belgian terrorist cell 'linked to targeting of news agents selling Charlie
Hebdo';
Belgian terrorist cell 'had been planning to attack people selling or queuing to
buy Charlie Hebdo produced one week after the Paris attacks'

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield Brussels

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 853 words


A Belgian terrorist cell was linked to threats of violence targeting newsagents
selling the latest copy of Charlie Hebdo on Friday night, according to documents
found in a flat where two terror suspects were killed.

The two men killed during a firefight with Belgium's special forces in Verviers
on Thursday night have been named locally as Redouane Hagaoui and Tarik Jadaoun,
who had recently returned from fighting in Syria.

Belgian secret service agents called in the armed police raid when intelligence
indicated the terror cell was about to carry out an attack.

Following the raid, police found four Kalashnikov AK47 rifles, four handguns,
ammunition and explosives. The terrorist cell was also equipped with police
uniforms, radio, false documentation and an "important sum of cash".

Documents found in the house, 16 Rue de la Colline, Verviers also pointed to a
terrorist attack on shops selling the current issue of Charlie Hebdo, depicting
a weeping Prophet Mohammed and the slogan, "Tout est pardonné, French for "All
is forgiven".

Earlier in the week, armed police units had been called out to protect
newsagents following intelligence of a threat to target people selling or
queuing to buy the magazine produced one week after Islamist terrorists attacked
Charlie Hebdo's Paris office, killing 12 people.

Investigators believe the men were poised to carry out attacks while
impersonating antiterrorist police officers, targeting either police stations,
courts or shops and other public places.

"What is certain is that a major attack by this terrorist cell was imminent,"
said Eric Van der Sypt, the spokesman for Belgium's federal prosecutor.

Hagaoui, 23, also known as Abu Khalid Al Maghribi, had been under surveillance
by Belgium's secret service after returning from fighting with radical Islamists
in Syria.

He left his job as a cook to travel to Syria via Turkey last January after
telling his parents he was going to visit relatives in their country of origin,
Morocco.

The other man killed, Jadaoun, is thought to be of Chechen origin.

"The identification of the two suspects who were killed is in progress," said Mr
Van der Sypt. "We have a very fair idea of who they are."

A third man wounded in the shoot-out has been named as Marouane E, 25. He has
been charged with terrorist offences but denies all charges. Four other people
were charged along with "Marouane E" him for "participating in the activities of
a terrorist group".

Didier De Quévy, his lawyer, told police that his client has never been to Syria
and claims to have been with the two dead suspects while a drugs deal was being
transacted.

Verviers, a run down city near the German border, once renowned for its textiles
and woollen industries, has a reputation as a hotbed of Islamist extremism.

In recent decades it has become home to foreign communities from Pakistan,
Morocco, Afghanistan and Chechnya in search of cheap housing.

In 2008, the city was identified as a stronghold of the Muslim Brotherhood and
Hamas.

The authorities estimate that 335 Belgians have gone to fight in Syria and Iraq
in recent years, putting it top of the list of European nations exporting jihadi
fighters in proportion to its small population of 11 million.

Two Belgians who were arrested in France after fleeing police raids against an
Islamist cell in their home country, were headed towards Italy, police sources
said.

They fled as Belgian police launched raids across the country leading to 13
arrests, mainly in Brussels and the two deaths in Verviers.

"We have arrested the people we wanted to arrest but I cannot confirm that we
arrested everyone in this group," said Mr Van der Sypt. "This group was specific
to Belgium."

Raids were also launched in France and Germany

In Germany it was reported that foreign intelligence agencies had intercepted
discussions by Islamist militants about possible attacks on weekly marches
organised by the country's new anti-Islamist movement, according to Der Spiegel
magazine.

The report in this weekend's magazine said foreign intelligence services had
picked up the content of communications by some "known international jihadists"
which indicated they had discussed possible attacks on the rallies organised by
the group, "Patriotic Europeans Against the Islamisation of the Occident"
(Pegida).

"We take these leads very seriously," said an unnamed high-ranking security
official.

Pegida marches began in the eastern city of Dresden with several hundred
supporters three months ago and have steadily grown, to number 25,000 on Monday,
five days after the attacks in Paris.

In Berlin, police arrested two men on Friday morning on suspicion of recruiting
fighters for the Islamic State group in Syria.

French police arrested 12 people in the Paris region in relation to the attacks
last week that claimed 17 lives.

A gunman who took two people hostage in a post office in Colombes, a suburb of
northwest Paris, was arrested after giving himself up to police.

The hostages were released unharmed, according to police, in an incident which
they said had no link to terrorism but added to the tension on the streets in
the country.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 16, 2015 Friday 4:25 PM GMT

Japan's final sarin gas trial unlikely to bring closure;
Eleven members of Aum Shinrikyo cult face execution, yet group that carried out
Japan's worst domestic terrorist attack lives on

BYLINE: By Julian Ryall Tokyo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 558 words


The final trial of a member of the Aum Shinrikyo cult opened in Tokyo today,
nearly 20 years after followers of the apocalyptic group released sarin nerve
gas on the city's subway system. When the case concludes, and cult members are
no longer required to give testimony against each other, the executions can
begin.

Eleven followers of Shoko Asahara, who declared himself a reincarnation of
Christ and founded the cult in 1984, have been sentenced to death for crimes
that include murder, abduction, the production of weapons and creating nerve
gas.

In total, 189 people were indicted for crimes carried out by Aum, culminating in
Japan's worst case of domestic terrorism and an incident that still has
reverberations today.

The last cult follower to appear in court is Katsuya Takahashi, who was spotted
in a comic book cafe in Tokyo in June 2012.

On the run for more than 16 years, 56-year-old Takahashi is charged with murder
for his part in the morning rush-hour sarin gas attack on March 20, 1995, in
which 13 commuters and station staff died, with 6,000 more hospitalised.

The trial is expected to last until April and prosecutors have indicated that
they will call at least three members of the cult who are presently languishing
on death row to give testimony.

But even with the conclusion of the final trial, Tokyo residents say closure is
likely to elude many who were directly affected by the cult's murderous
policies.

"The legacy of those days still lingers, both physically and in terms of the
security arrangements that were put in place immediately afterwards - in much
the same way as controls were brought in after 9/11", said Jun Okumura, a
visiting scholar at the Meiji Institute for Global Affairs.

"Personally, as someone who could have been affected, I've put it behind me, but
there have been changes", he said, pointing out that rubbish bins are only now
reappearing on train platforms and have been redesigned so that their contents
are visible through transparent panels.

"In that physical sense, the after-effects of Aum are everywhere, even if they
are muted", Mr Okumura said.

More worrying for many is that while Aum Shinrikyo was swiftly outlawed, two
splinter groups were quickly set up, protected by the constitutional right to
religious freedom yet still swearing allegiance to Asahara.

In December, the Public Security Intelligence Agency applied to continue to
carry out surveillance of the two groups, called Aleph and Circle of Light, to
ensure they pose no threat to the public.

The agency stated that Asahara's daughter is a senior member of Aleph and is
behind many of the group's decisions. The woman has filed a suit against the
agency, denying that she is a high-ranking officer of the group and demanding
Y10 million (£55,873) in damages for emotional distress.

Japan has executed 11 death row inmates since the conservative government of
Shinzo Abe came to power in December 2012. In that time, punishment in cases in
which there were numerous victims and the appeals process had been exhausted
generally came fairly swiftly.

Public opinion polls show that fully 80 percent of the Japanese public support
the death penalty. And given that no crime in living memory has shocked Japanese
society like those carried in Asahara's name, there are likely to be few tears
shed when the sentences are, inevitably, carried out.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 17, 2015 Saturday

Singapore government to make utmost efforts to prevent terror attack - PM

LENGTH: 408 words


Text of report by Zakir Hussain from the "Top of the News" section headlined
"Terror threat 'is real and we must be prepared for it'" published by Singapore
newspaper The Straits Times website on 17 January

As terrorism stalks the world, the Government will do its best to prevent any
such attack in Singapore, said Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong.

But it cannot say for sure that a terror attack could never happen here, he
added.

In the event that it does, Mr Lee believes the greatest damage would not be in
the number of direct casualties from the attack "but the trust and the
confidence that we have built up over the years between the communities".

He made the point in an interview on Wednesday [14 January] with Singapore
reporters, who had asked him about the terror threat.

As part of its preventive measures, the Government is closely watching
developments abroad like the rise of the militant group, Islamic State in Iraq
and Syria (ISIS), he said.

It is also keeping an eye on self-radicalised individuals, and tries to nip the
problem in the bud before it becomes a disaster.

At the same time, it strives to educate Singaporeans about the threat and
prepare them for it.

"We should not be completely shocked should we have an incident happen either
here or close to us," he said.

He noted that the Government held regular dialogues on the topic with leaders of
various communities.

Last November, he met Muslim and non-Muslim community leaders to talk about
ISIS, and said several hundred individuals from South-east Asia, including a few
self-radicalised Singaporeans, had gone to Syria and Iraq to fight alongside the
militants there.

When they return home, they pose a threat to the region.

Said Mr Lee: "Indonesia has a very serious problem, hundreds of people have gone
to the Middle East.

"Malaysia has quite a serious problem, they have dozens of people who have gone
to the Middle East, Iraq and Syria, including several who have actually
committed suicide bombings."

"In Singapore, can I say that it will never happen? I cannot say that," he
added, referring to the possibility of a terror attack.

"What I can do is to try my best to prepare people to minimise the chance, and
to prepare people psychologically so that if it happens, we are not completely
shocked and stunned, and we also are able to maintain the ties between the
communities and we keep our multiracial fabric."

Source: The Straits Times website, Singapore, in English 17 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                     January 17, 2015 Saturday 2:43 PM GMT

Police step up patrols to protect Gateshead Jewish community following Paris
terror attacks;
Northumbria Police said it will be increasing the number of patrols it has in
areas with large Jewish communities

BYLINE: By Michael Brown

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 689 words


Jewish communities in the North are to be given extra protection in the wake of
the Paris terror attacks.

The national head of counter-terrorism policing in the UK said the attack on a
kosher supermarket in the French capital and anti-semitic rhetoric from
extremists had led to a "heightened concern" about the risk to the Jews on this
side of the channel.

And now officers in the North are preparing to mount extra patrols to deter
hatemongers in the region.

A spokesman for Northumbria Police said it would be increasing its presence in
the Bensham area of Gateshead, which has a thriving Jewish community.

"Our neighbourhood policing teams have an excellent relationship with all the
communities and we are in close contact with community leaders, to discuss any
concerns they may have," police said.

Spokesmen for Cleveland and Durham said officers were on heightened alert in the
wake of the Paris attacks, as are officers nationwide.

But no specific patrols to safeguard Jewish sites, homes or businesses were
currently planned in their areas.

It comes after Britain's chief counter-terror police officer, the Metropolitan
Police's assistant commissioner Mark Rowley, said chief constables across the
country are reviewing how they deal with possible threats.

"The global picture of terrorist activity does give us heightened concern about
the risk to the Jewish community in the UK," Mr Rowley said.

"We are seeing continuing anti-Semitic rhetoric from extremists and attacks on
this community in France and elsewhere."

Speaking at Scotland Yard's headquarters, Mr Rowley said an "unprecented" number
of terrorist attacks had been thwarted in the UK in recent months, as he
revealed the number of terror arrests rose by a third last year.

"As the determination, intent and capabilty of terrorist groups pushes harder we
have to push harder back and change our stance in how we deal with those
issues," said Mr Rowley, who also revealed police are reviewing how to keep
their own officers safe.

"We mustn't, and we can't, change the stance of policing in a way that
undermines our ability to protect the public. This is not about officers being
afraid to leave police stations or never going out on their own.

"It is about how do we assess the patrols officers are on, the incidents we send
officers to, how we assess their day to day work to help feel secure."

An 18-year-old woman was arrested on suspicion of terrorism offences at Stansted
Airport on Friday afternoon, while the continent has also seen a string of
arrests.

The threat against police has been raised to 'severe', the highest level yet, in
the UK.

Mr Rowley said the terrorist threat level facing Britain was of "grave concern"
and had led to the "massive" number of arrests in the last year.

There were 327 arrests for terrorist offences in 2014 - a 32% increase on the
previous year.

"We haven't seen anything falling back in the last year," he said.

"The volume of activity continues, the volume of arrests continues, month in,
month out. We've never seen the level of arrests we've made in the last year or
so for a sustained period before.

"The sustained pace of arrests and disruption, we've not seen before. Likewise
the number of plots we've disrupted in recent months is unprecedented.

"We can't do this on our own. If we're to succeed in the fight against terrorism
then information from members of the public, from all communities, about
suspicious behaviour they've seen, about people of concern who are being
radicalised, anything like that people musn't hesitate and come forward to us."

Meanwhile, the European Union's law enforcement agency said the UK public can be
reassured by increased security measures on the streets - but admitted a
terrorist attack cannot be ruled out.

Rob Wainwright, director of Europol, said: "Stopping everything is very
difficult, containing the threat fully is very difficult, but I'm sure we will
prevail, as we have prevailed against other forms of terrorism in the past."

Mr Wainwright has said that at least 2,500 and possibly up to 5,000 people have
travelled from Europe to conflicts in Syria and Iraq and might have been
radicalised.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                     January 17, 2015 Saturday 12:00 PM GMT

Europe on high alert for terror attacks

BYLINE: Emma Thomas

LENGTH: 507 words


THE threat of terrorism in Europe is the worst it has been in ten years,
Europe's head of police warned.

Rob Wainwright, head EU law enforcement agency Europol, said they were facing an
"urgent and serious" challenge as security services struggled to watch terror
suspects spread across the continent.

Mr Wainwright said: "We are dealing with a very serious threat spread around
many European countries and propagated by thousands of suspects radicalised on
the internet and through conflict experience in Syria and Iraq."

Europol is quick to share information about suspects with other countries and Mr
Wainwright said "significant" work was being done to stop attacks.

He said: "The scale of the problem has increased over the last 10 years. But
over the last ten years the sophistication of the police response has increased
too."

Hundreds of police commandos raided terrorist cells in northern Europe -
targeting Islamic State terrorists in the wake of the Paris attacks which left
17 dead.

Two jihadists were killed in Belgium after a night of violence and two dozen
people have been arrested in France, Germany and Belgium.

It was in the town of Verviers, near Belgium's border with Germany, that the two
jihadists suspected of planning a "Belgium Charlie Hebdo" - the terror attack on
the satirical magazine in the French capital - were killed during a 10-minute
gun battle.

It has since emerged that the "heavily-armed" jihadists had just returned from
fighting and training in war-torn Syria and were planning "terrorist attacks on
a grand scale."

But Mr Wainwright, speaking to Sky News, admitted it was "extremely difficult"
to stop every threat.

He added: "Stopping everything is very difficult, containing the threat wholly
is very difficult but I am sure we will prevail.

"We can't or what happened in Paris would not have happened."

Mr Wainwright's comments come as Prime Minister David Cameron announced Britain
and America will set up a group to counter the "death cult" of violent
extremism.

Following recent terror attacks in Paris, Pakistan and Nigeria, Cameron and
Barack Obama have vowed to confront the "poisonous and fanatical ideology" of
extremists.

The countries will learn from each other's experience, while Britain will step
up its support of Iraqi forces fight Islamic State terrorists.

Mr Cameron, speaking to CBS News in America, said the terror threat had changed.



He said: "We face a very severe threat, we believe an attack is highly likely.

"This threat keeps morphing. It is the same fundamental problem but whereas the
majority was coming from Afghanistan and Pakistan, more is now coming from Iraq
and Syria. Added to that, you've got these so-called 'lone wolf' or 'self
starter' terrorists who have been radicalised because of what they have seen on
the internet who may not be connected to some plot being hatched in Iraq or
Syria.

"The threat has changed but it is still the same problem - a death cult
narrative which is the perversion of one of the word's major religions."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           January 17, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Tragedy opens Flood's eyes to the real France;
EUROPEAN CHAMPIONSHIP Reaction to Paris terror attacks has helped Toulouse's
English fly-half gain a deeper understanding of the true culture of his adopted
home, writes Mick Cleary

BYLINE: Mick Cleary

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 1142 words


Toby Flood has immersed himself in the French way of life. Toulouse, the Pink
City? Explored. The local market? Done that. Foie gras? Done that. A drop or two
of wine, occasional weekend flits to the Pyrenees or across the border into
Spain, and many hours in a restaurant conversing as best he can in his adopted
tongue - all have been duly absorbed.

A French friend threw him recently with a perspective on the difference between
French and English cultures. "How can there be an expression in English that
says you 'agree to disagree'? Don't you just fight your corner until you have
won the argument?"

Flood was stumped. Compromise is not an option in French discourse. The
passionate expression of ideas and ideals has found particular resonance these
past 10 days in France. Flood's team-mate at Stade Toulousain, France captain
Thierry Dusautoir, was moved to pen his own thoughts on the Paris shootings in a
Huffington Post blog - lucid, heartfelt and provoking.

Flood fell into conversation the other day with full-back Clément Poitrenaud,
another Stade Toulousain stalwart. There has been only one topic on the agenda
since the Paris attacks, animated discussion not just of the terrible events
themselves but also of the reaction across France. Hundreds of thousands marched
in Toulouse last weekend, the huge response far in excess of anything that
occurred in the wake of the dreadful incident in the city in 2012, when seven
people were killed, including three children and a teacher at a Jewish school.

"It has been a really strange time, shocking," Flood said. "The reaction has
been amazing. The French guys were trying to put it into words for me. This has
been an attack on their very founding principles, their way of life, their
freedom of thought as well as speech.

"Any death is tragic. But that is so often a personal thing. The Toulouse guys
didn't experience anything like the same feelings three years ago. This was
about something deep within. It is a complex issue and I didn't grasp it all.
But everyone has been moved. Politics and religion are often discussed. And as
that French friend told me, you stand your ground until your point of view
wins."

Flood admits that it has taken him time, longer than he expected perhaps, to
settle. Some of that is due to the cultural switch from the straightforward ways
of Leicester to the chop-and-change of Stade, some to language - which is
progressing - and some of it to injury. Flood has had three stints on the
sidelines this season, but is back in clover and in favour for the visit of Bath
tomorrow in the European Champions Cup.

It is a significant selection, with Toulouse recovering from a bumpy start to
the season. There was a whiff of crisis over Christmas, with the club seventh in
the Top 14 and a power struggle behind the scenes between the old and new
orders.

Flood has had to come to terms with all this since deciding to head across the
Channel last summer, forsaking his international career in the process, to
expose himself to a new challenge. "I knew that my England days would be behind
me, although I am always here should Stuart [Lancaster, head coach] need to
invoke 'exceptional circumstances' and I knew too that it would not necessarily
be a smooth transition," Flood said. "And it hasn't been.

"The French rugby way of life is different. Hotels the night before a home match
as opposed to pitching up an hour and 15 minutes before kick-off at Welford
www.Road.No music in the changing room. Lots of little bits of routine.

"Here it is the norm to rotate on selection. That really unsettled me. I'd have
a couple of games and then be out in the cold with not much of an explanation.
There are other things, too. We don't know from one week to the next just what
the training schedule is. At Leicester everything was synchronised. That day for
defence. That day for attack.

"Here, we get a text from [manager] Guy Noves for Monday timings, and then
timings for the week. One way is not better than the other, just different.
After 4½ months, I am just getting a feel for it."

So too for the nuances of the language. Flood, 29, attends lessons twice a week
and forces himself to speak French at every turn. He had just managed to deal
with a local heating engineer for his household boiler when we spoke, no mean
feat even in English.

The son of theatrical stock from Northumberland, with grandparents as actors,
one of whom featured in The Guns Of Navarone, the exiled way of life suits his
inquiring mind. He lives in the city, tells of trading tales of the quality of
avocados at market, and is finally getting on the right wavelength with his
rugby.

"The language can hold you back," Flood said. "You get the big picture but not
the nuances. At fly-half, trying to run the game, it has all got to be spot on.
There is so much talent here but we have got to make it work. It has been a
tricky time with a few setbacks. That is why Sunday's game is so important. We
have gone well in Europe [they are the only side with a 100 per cent record] and
we need to sustain that Champions Cup momentum to not only get a home draw in
the quarter-final but also to carry it over into the Top 14.

"They are passionate about their rugby here. It is the lifeblood of the city.
The Stade Ernest Wallon is a real cauldron. Sunday is massive."

Across the halfway line will be one of those who have followed Flood (60 caps)
into the England No10 shirt - George Ford. "I'm really pleased at how things
have worked out for George. It looked as if he would have to wait for his
opportunity. He has always had ability, but you need a chance and then you need
to play with confidence. He has done that."

As for Flood's international future, he comes over all Edith Piaf. "No regrets,
none. I knew the score. I was fortunate to have a long England career. I have
plenty on my plate here. It has been a real challenge, and that is what I came
for."

Captain bears witness

This is an edited extract from a piece by France and Toulouse captain Thierry
Dusautoir in The Huffington Post

"This odious act has urged me to bear witness, to rise up and fight...

"I am no more than a rugby player. But what I want to say is that what has
engaged me since my earliest years, since I put down by suitcases in France from
my origins in the Ivory Coast, is camaraderie, life together.

"The Charlie guys had their humour which wasn't always mine. In fact, I have
been shocked by certain cartoons. But, at the very least, they made me react,
made me think, made my question myself. But... these terrorists have also made
me think. The terrorists respect no one... They do no more than sow the seeds of
death... As captain of the French national team I want to state that from this
day on I will continue to defend difference in society and to fight for the
right to live together. I am Charlie."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rough and tumble: Jordan Crane (left) scores the second Tigers
tryANDREW BOYERS/ACTION IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                           January 17, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

THUGS POSE AS GARDAI IN HOUSE RAID TERROR;
Two Filipino families attacked

BYLINE: CATHAL MCMAHON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 212 words


RAIDERS pretended they were gardai before bursting into a home and assaulting
two innocent families.

The callous thugs tied up four adults and a teenager during the aggravated
burglary in Finglas, North Dublin, on Thursday.

Filipino nationals Rauel Acala, 38, his wife Genieve, 40, along with pals Edwin
Telaez, 45, and Hazel Puri, 40, were at home with two children, aged six and 13,
on Thursday night when two raiders called to the house on Heathfield Way,
Finglas, and claimed to be gardai.

A senior source said: "One was wearing what looked like a Garda stab vest. But
when the homeowners came to the door these men burst into the house."

The pair, carrying a shotgun and a knife, threatened and assaulted the
occupants. The adults and the 13-year-old were bound with cable ties.

The raiders demanded cash and one pointed the barrel of the shotgun down the
throat of one of the occupants.

They left a short time later in a dark vehicle with a small sum of cash.

The couples are care workers but detectives are investigating if the raiders
believed the family owned a fast-food restaurant a since there has been a recent
spate of attacks on non-national food bosses.

cathal.mcmahon@irishmirror.ie

"One was wearing what looked like a Garda stab vest MIRROR SOURCE dublin
yesterday

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCENE OF ROBBERY House in Finglas, North Dublin, yesterdayPicture:
COLIN KEEGAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           January 17, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

13 held as Belgium foils terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 454 words


THIRTEEN people have been detained in Belgium and two in France in an
anti-terror sweep following a gunfight in which two suspected terrorists were
killed.

Authorities said a dozen searches in the Belgian city of Verviers had led to the
discovery of four militarystyle weapons including Kalashnikov assault rifles.

It comes after police yesterday moved in on a suspected terrorist hideout at a
bakery in the eastern city, killing two suspects and wounding and arresting a
third. The arrested suspect was charged with belonging to a terrorist
organisation.

Unlike the Paris terrorists, who attacked the office of a satirical newspaper
and a kosher grocery store, the suspects in Belgium were reportedly aiming at
hard targets: police installations.

Eric Van der Sypt, a federal magistrate, said the terrorists were aiming to kill
police on the street or in their offices.

"As soon as they thought special forces were there, they opened fire," he said.
"They were on the verge of committing important terror attacks."

Across Europe, anxiety has grown as the manhunt continues for potential
accomplices of the three Paris terrorists, all of whom were shot dead by police.
Authorities in Belgium signalled they were ready for more trouble by raising the
national terror alert level from two to three, the second-highest.

"It shows we have to be extremely careful," Mr Van der Sypt said. The Verviers
suspects "were extremely well-armed men" equipped with automatic weapons, he
added. Authorities have previously said 300 Belgian residents have gone to fight
with extremist Islamic groups in Syria. It is unclear how many have returned.

Prime minister Charles Michel said the increase in the threat level was "a
choice for prudence". "There is no concrete or specific knowledge of new
elements of threat," he said.

The suspects in Verviers opened fire on police when officers closed in on them
near the city's railway station, the magistrate said. There was an intense
firefight for several minutes. Video posted online showed a dark view of a
building amid blasts, gunshots and sirens, and a fire with smoke
www.billowing.No police were wounded or killed in the clash at the height of the
evening rush hour in a crowded neighbourhood of the former industrial city of
56,000, about 80 miles south east of the capital Brussels.

Earlier, authorities said they were looking into possible links between a man
they arrested in the southern city of Charleroi for illegal trade in weapons and
Amedy Coulibaly, who killed four people in a Paris market last week.

The man arrested in Belgium "claims that he wanted to buy a car from the wife of
Coulibaly", Mr Van der Sypt said. "At this moment this is the only link between
what happened in Paris."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Policeman guards Federal Prosecutor's office in Brussels ¦

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DPW


                       Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                           January 17, 2015 Saturday

Family honour politician's memory one year on since his death in terrorist
attack

BYLINE: Emma Streatfield

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 531 words


A YEAR ago today her life changed forever when her brother was killed in an
Afghan terrorist attack.

Humanitarian campaigner and politician Del Singh was one of 21 people who lost
their lives when gunmen enterted a Kabul restaurant where he was dining with
friends and started firing at diners.

Moments earlier a suicide bomber had detonated explosives, blasting the gates of
the restaurant.

Now, 12 months on, his sister has told how her family has endured a year of pain
following the death of the 39-year-old - but now they are determined to honour
his memory through charity work.

The Del Singh Foundation is at the centre of his family's efforts to ensure his
legacy lives on and already events are being planned to get the money rolling
in.

His sister Dishi Kaur Umfleet told the Daily Echo of her determination to make
her brother proud after 12 months in which the charity took a backseat as they
struggled as a family to come to terms with what has happened.

As director of the foundation, which is run by volunteers, Dishi has taken some
time away from her job as a management consultant to give it her full attention.

The family are working to get it registered as a charity.

Humanitarian campaigner Del had worked in international aid for more than a
decade helping to restore war-torn countries such as Sierra Leone, Kosovo and
Afghanistan and was also a Labour south east MEP candidate.

Alongside this he helped homeless and other under-privileged people in his home
city.

Dishi said the foundation would continue Del's legacy.

"I'm determined that that's what the charity will do," she said.

"The one thing he used to say was make it count, do things that are worthwhile.
He's had his way now."

So far the foundation has raised £6,000, but Dishi hopes to double that next
year and called for charities or groups that they could work alongside or
benefit to get in touch.

The organisation aims to help those in need or facing hardship focusing on
women, children and young people.

Plans this year include what is hoped will be the first of many talks in March
by experts in London to raise awareness of humanitarian causes.

A major fundraising cricket match in Southampton in the summer will honour Del's
love of the game.

Sponsored walks and marathons are also planned.

However, Dishi said a year on it was still tough for the family.

They have held prayers in memory of Del and will spend today's anniversary
together.

Del would have turned 40 in December, so the family, which has moved from
Northumberland Road, in St Mary's, to Bugle Street, marked it with a party.

Poignantly, Del had helped plan Dishi's wedding to Daniel Umfleet in Southampton
in August.

"His touches were all over the wedding," she said.

"The ceremony was quite emotional for me where he was not there but his friends
really rallied around.

"It was like having a bit of him there."

Christmas and New Year were also difficult as usually Del and his siblings would
all get together to bake cakes.

"The first of everything has been difficult, it's going to continue to be
difficult," she said.

"It's still tough, sometimes you don't really believe it's happened, but we're
trying to keep positive, celebrate the small things."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                     January 17, 2015 Saturday 9:38 AM GMT

Security beefed up in Britain's Jewish communities after Paris terror attacks

BYLINE: Nick Gutteridge

LENGTH: 730 words


POLICE patrols are to be stepped up in Jewish communities across Britain amid
fears of a rising wave of anti-Semitism on the back of the Paris terror attacks.

GETTY

Thousands of troops have been deployed on the streets of Paris following last
week's terror attacks

The Association of Chief Police Officers revealed that it is looking to beef up
security in Jewish neighbourhoods in the aftermath of the bloody atrocity.

Four Jewish people died in last week's terror attacks by Islamist extremists
after they were cornered and shot in a siege at a Kosher supermarket.

Extra measures will also be taken to protect police officers, with the
announcement coming just hours after marksmen shot dead two Islamist terrorists
who were planning to slaughter police officers on the streets of Belgium.

Three police officers were among the 17 people who died over three bloody days
in the French capital last week.

PA

David Cameron met religious leaders on Tuesday to discuss Britain's response to
the Paris attacks

Scotland Yard assistant commissioner Mark Rowley, who heads up Britain's
counter-terrorism force, said yesterday: "The global picture of terrorist
activity does give us heightened concern about the risk to the Jewish community
in the UK.

"We are seeing continuing anti-Semitic rhetoric from extremists and attacks on
this community in France and elsewhere.

"In addition to our existing security measures, we are in dialogue with Jewish
Community leaders about further actions that we will be taking, including more
patrols in key areas.

"We remain alert to the vulnerabilities of other communities. Where we do have
particular concerns, we make these known to those involved.

"For example, we continue to be alive to those who want to exploit the current
situation and create fear in our Muslim communities, with whom we work closely,
to offer our protection and reassurance.

"We are also considering what further measures we might put in place to enhance
the security of police officers, given some of the deliberate targeting of the
police we have seen in a number of countries across Europe and the world.

"Chief constables across the country are reviewing how to strengthen the
protection of their officers from such attacks. Our men and women on the
frontline are used to confronting risk and danger and are well-trained in how to
protect the public and themselves."

GETTY

Thousands of troops have been deployed on the streets of Paris this week to
reassure France's Jews

Jewish parents revealed this week that they are being greeted by burly security
guards when they drop their children off at the school gates.

The increased security comes in the light of a shocking new report which shows
that more than half of British Jews feel that anti-Semitism now echoes the
1930s.

In France, soldiers armed with machine guns have been escorting pupils as young
as five to lessons.

French Prime Minister Manuel Valls has announced the deployment of 5,000 troops
to protect the country's 600,000 Jews after it emerged they are now fleeing
France in record numbers.

PA

Religious leaders in Britain this week pushed for a united response to the Paris
terror attacks

The announcement from ACPO came as faith leaders from across the country joined
forces to condemn the Paris terror attacks today.

Senior Muslim, Jewish and Christian leaders called for a "united Britain of
religions" on the same day copies of the controversial "survivors' edition" of
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo hit the nation's news stands.

Queues developed outside newsagents this morning as people clamoured for the
magazine's new issue, which carries a front-cover cartoon of a crying Prophet
Mohammed, now seen as a symbol of freedom of speech.

Islamist gunmen killed 10 journalists when they stormed the paper's Paris
offices last week.

Around 20 leading religious figures met at the Islamic Cultural Centre at
Regent's Park Mosque, London, today in what organisers described as "an act of
solidarity".

Dr Shuja Shafi, secretary-general of the Muslim Council of Britain, said:
"Nothing offends us more than the insult, hurt and dishonour this attack has
brought on our community and faith".

Senior Rabbi Laura Janner-Klausner added: "Today was to send a message about
Britain - a united Britain of religions. We will not have division here, we will
continue to work together and any attempt to divide us will not work."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 17, 2015 Saturday 4:22 PM GMT

Shootings in France and Belgium prompt Met police firearms review;
Force, which has lost 752 gun-bearing officers, is looking into its ability to
prevent terrorist attacks in wake of tragedies

BYLINE: Mark Townsend and Sandra Laville

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 429 words


Scotland Yard is reviewing its firearms capability in the wake of the shootings
in France and Belgium, after losing hundreds of armed officers over the last
five years.

After British police were warned they may be specifically targeted in future
terror attacks, it is understood senior officers at the Metropolitan police are
considering the numbers of available authorised firearms officers.

Scotland Yard has lost 752 authorised firearms officers, down from 2,897 in 2009
to 2,145 last year, figures obtained under the Freedom of Information Act by the
Police Oracle website show.

There were 4,986 authorised firearms officers in England and Wales last year,
down from at least 5,746 in 2009. In contrast, the manhunt in France that
followed the attack on the Charlie Hebdo offices involved more than 88,000,
mostly armed, French police, gendarmes and special forces.

Mark Rowley, the Met's assistant commissioner and Britain's national policing
lead for counter-terrorism, said the force was reviewing its "ability to prevent
and respond to terrorist incidents", and sources have clarified that this
extended to firearms capability.

It comes after Greater Manchester police apparently abandoned plans to reduce
its firearms capability following the events in Paris.

Senior officers at the force reportedly agreed that proposals to reduce the
number of firearms officers should not go ahead amid claims from Mark Williams,
chairman of the Police Firearms Officers Associations, that cuts were "naive" in
light of the terrorist threat to police, which has been raised to severe - its
highest level yet.

Overall, the UK's threat level is also rated severe, meaning an attack is deemed
highly likely.

Steve White, chair of the Police Federation of England and Wales - which
continues to push for more officers to be trained specifically in the use of
firearms - said: "Something has to be done about resourcing and something has to
be done now. The government risks failing the public by not taking seriously the
warnings from policing professionals about the effect of the cuts to this vital
public service. Recent events should surely put that in context."

Police officers were recently warned not to wear their uniforms while travelling
to and from work amid fears they could be targeted.

On Friday, Scotland Yard said that patrols of Jewish communities would be
stepped up.

The review comes as Rob Wainwright, director of Europol, warned that fully
containing the threat posed by terrorism in Europe was very challenging, adding
there was no guarantee further attacks could be prevented.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 17, 2015 Saturday 11:15 AM GMT

Stopping all terrorist attacks is impossible, says Europol chief;
Rob Wainwright says extremist threat has changed in 10 years but adds police
response is more advanced too

BYLINE: David Batty

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 514 words


The head of the EU's law enforcement agency has said that further terrorist
attacks cannot be ruled out in the wake of the murder of 17 people in Paris by
Islamist gunmen last week.

Rob Wainwright, director of Europol, said it was impossible to apprehend all
attack plots but added that the British public should be reassured by increased
security measures on the streets following the three-day killing spree in the
French capital that started at the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.

"Stopping everything is very difficult, containing the threat fully is very
difficult, but I'm sure we will prevail, as we have prevailed against other
forms of terrorism in the past," Wainwright told Sky News.

Asked whether there was no guarantee attacks such as those in Paris could be
prevented, he said: "No, there can't be, otherwise what happened in Paris
wouldn't have happened. I think there is a realisation across the police and
security community in Europe.

"But at the same time we have a very strong determination to maximise our
capability to keep our citizens safe."

He said the scale of the problem had increased over the last 10 years, adding
that terrorists no longer had a coherent, identifiable command and control
structure such as in the past. "But over those 10 years, the sophistication of
the police response has also increased."

Wainwright has said that at least 2,500 and possibly up to 5,000 people have
travelled from Europe to conflicts in Syria and Iraq and might have been
radicalised.

His comments came after David Cameron and Barack Obama held talks in Washington
on how to tackle the terrorist threat. The two leaders struck different notes on
surveillance powers, with the US president conceding that there is an important
balance to be struck between monitoring terror suspects and protecting civil
liberties.

A report last year into the murder of Fusilier Lee Rigby concluded that Facebook
had failed to pass on information that could have prevented his death.

The American firm had previously shut down accounts belonging to one of the
killers, Michael Adebowale, because he had discussed terrorism but did not raise
concerns with the security services.

Asked how big the encrypted communication problem was, Wainwright said: "We've
been engaged at Europol in combating various forms of cybercrime online for the
last two years or more. It's clear that the internet is becoming of increasing
utility to criminal networks.

"The nature of encrypted communication makes it more difficult for police to
intercept this communication online than to intercept telephone communication in
the real world."

Cameron and Obama agreed to establish a new joint group to exchange information
and expertise on countering the rise of violent extremism.

Obama agreed with the UK prime minister that there could be no spaces on the
internet for terrorists to communicate that could not be monitored by the
intelligences agencies, subject to proper oversight. But, unlike Cameron, the US
president encouraged groups to ensure that he and other leaders did not abandon
civil liberties.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 17, 2015 Saturday 3:38 PM GMT

Paris attacks: Jean-Marie Le Pen says French terror attacks were work of Western
intelligence;
Front National founder gives credence to conspiracy theories in an interview
with virulently anti-western Russian newspaper

BYLINE: John Lichfield

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 576 words


The Charlie Hebdo massacre may have been the work of an "intelligence agency",
working with the connivance of French authorities, according to Jean-Marie Le
Pen, founder of the far right Front National.

In an interview with a virulently anti-Western Russian newspaper, Mr Le Pen, 86,
gave credence to conspiracy theories circulating on the internet suggesting that
the attack was the work of American or Israeli agents seeking to foment a civil
war between Islam and the West.

His comments - only partially retracted in an interview with the French
newspaper Le Monde today - provoked outrage amongst French politicians. They
will also infuriate Marine Le Pen, his daughter, and successor as leader of the
FN, who has been trying to distance the party from her father's extreme and
provocative remarks.

Mr Le Pen stood down as FN leader three years ago but remains
President-for-life. He made the comments in an interview with Komsomolskaïa
Pravda , a newspaper which had already blamed the United States for the
terrorist mayhem in France.

Charlie Hebdo: Mourning in Paris

"The shooting at Charlie Hebdo resembles a secret service operation but we have
no proof of that," the newspaper quoted Mr Le Pen as saying. "I don't think it
was organised by the French authorities but they permitted this crime to be
committed.  That, for the moment, is just a supposition."

To justify his comments, Mr Le Pen pointed to the fact that one of the Kouachi
brothers, who carried out the Charlie Hebdo massacre, left his identity card in
a crashed getaway car. He compared this to the "miraculous fact" - beloved by
conspiracy theorists - that one of the passports of the 9/11 hijackers was found
on the ground in New York after two planes collided with the twin towers of the
World Trade Centre in 2001.

Read more: Suspected terrorists shot dead in BelgiumA continent on the edge -
terror raids across EuropeCameron and Obama vow joint anti-terror measures

Mr Le Pen made two other provocative remarks in the interview. He said that the
1,500,000 who marched "against hatred" in Paris last Sunday were not "Charlies"
but "Charlie Chaplins" (ie clowns). He also said that there were 15,000,00 to
20,000,000 Muslims in France - three or four times the generally accepted
figures of 5,000,000 people who are practising Muslims or have Muslim
backgrounds.

In an interview with Le Monde today, Mr Le Pen repeated his suspicions about the
identity card but said he "could not recall" talking about "secret services" to
the Russian newspaper.

Mr Le Pen's original quoted remarks run directly counter to the official line of
his daughter and his party. They have suggested that the attacks on Charlie
Hebdo and a Jewish supermarket are the final proof that France faces an  "enemy
within", which has been created by immigration and open EU borders.

Conspiracy theories of the kind espoused by the elder Le Pen sprang up on the
internet within hours of the Charlie Hebdo attacks. They have been repeated in
recent days by some - not all - young Muslims in France,  torn between
identifying with the Kouachi brothers and insisting that they were stooges of
the French authorities, Washington and Israel.

The  French "pope of conspiracy theories", Thierry Meyssan, now based in
Damascus, insisted that the Charlie Hebdo massacres were "ordered by US neo-cons
and liberal hawks". An American conspiracy site, McLatchy, has claimed that the
Kouachi brothers were working for French intelligence.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 17, 2015 Saturday 12:39 AM GMT

A continent on edge: Paris attacks leave Europe on terror high alert as police
in five countries arrest more than twenty extremist suspects;
Belgium reveals that latest jihadist plot targeted police

BYLINE: John Lichfield

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 676 words


Fears of new jihadist attacks deepened across Europe yesterday, as police in
five countries arrested more than 20 terrorist suspects.

The arrests were made in the wake of a shoot-out in Belgium between police and
suspected jihadists, and last week's Paris attacks which left 20 people dead.
Nerves in France were further tested by two terror alerts yesterday.

Among the arrests was one at Stansted Airport in Essex where counter-terrorism
officers seized an 18-year-old woman as she flew into the country. She was
suspected of "preparation of terrorist acts" and membership of a proscribed
organisation. Police refused to say where she had flown from but the arrest is
believed to be linked to Syria. In another development, security was stepped up
around Jewish communities.

In Belgium 13 people were held after the shoot-out which left two suspects dead
in a police raid on Thursday night in Verviers, near the German border.

Yesterday Belgian authorities said they had foiled a plot, with just hours to
spare, in which terrorists dressed as police would have attacked officers on the
streets and in police stations with assault rifles and other weapons.

In pictures: Counter-terrorism raid in Belgium

The two men who were killed - and a third who was wounded - were Belgian
nationals who are believed to have returned recently from fighting with Isis in
Syria.

No link has been found with last week's attacks on Charlie Hebdo magazine and a
Jewish supermarket in Paris.

Separate arrests were, however, made in Charleroi in southern Belgium, as part
of the investigation into how Amedy Coulibaly - one of the three French Islamist
terrorists killed a week ago - obtained his weapons.

A dozen people were also arrested in France yesterday in a series of dawn raids
on the homes of known associates of Coulibaly.

In Berlin, police arrested two men suspected of recruiting fighters for Isis in
Syria and Iraq. Authorities said that there was no direct link with the French
attacks or the arrests in Belgium.

In Ireland, police arrested a suspected French-Algerian militant at Dublin
airport as he tried to enter the country using a false passport. The man was on
a European watch list after expressing support in social media for last week's
attacks, authorities said.

The US Secretary of State, John Kerry, visited Paris yesterday to make amends
for the failure of any senior US official to attend the epic "march against
hatred" in the French capital last Sunday.

Mr Kerry placed wreaths outside the offices of Charlie Hebdo, where 12 people
died on Wednesday last week, and at the Hyper Cacher supermarket where four
people were murdered on Friday last week. "Today, I wanted to be here, at home
with you, among you," said Mr Kerry, speaking in French. "I really wanted to
come here and share a hug with all of Paris, with all of France."

Mr Kerry also had talks with President François Hollande, who later addressed
the whole of the diplomatic corps. The President called on the European Union,
and especially the passport-free Schengen area, to "toughen" its controls on
people arriving from outside the region. He said at the next EU summit meeting
on 12 February he would press for a European database to allow the instant
arrest in any EU country of suspected jihadists coming from or going to join the
ranks of Isis.

The dozen people arrested in the inner suburbs of Paris yesterday are suspected
of giving "logistical" support to the Jewish supermarket killer, Coulibaly, and
possibly also to the Kouachi brothers. Investigators are anxious to discover,
above all, where the three gunmen got their huge cache of weapons.

The atmosphere in France remained tense. The Gare de l'Est railway station in
Paris was closed due to a bomb alert which came to nothing. A heavily armed
gunman surrendered after holding two hostages in a post office in Colombes, just
west of the French capital.

He was described by police as an "unbalanced" individual, who was protesting
against the break-up of a relationship with a girlfriend. His two hostages were
released unharmed.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                           January 17, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

15 arrested as Belgium thwarts terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 238 words


THIRTEEN people have been detained in Belgium and two in France in an
anti-terror sweep following a gunfight in which two suspected terrorists were
killed.

Authorities said a dozen searches in the Belgian city of Verviers had led to the
discovery of four militarystyle weapons including Kalashnikov assault rifles.

It comes after police on Thursday moved in on a suspected terrorist hideout at a
bakery in the eastern city, killing two suspects and wounding and arresting a
third. The arrested suspect was charged with belonging to a terrorist
organisation. Unlike the Paris terrorists, who attacked the office of a
satirical newspaper and a kosher grocery store, the suspects in Belgium were
reportedly aiming at hard targets: police installations.

Eric Van der Sypt, a federal magistrate, said the terrorists were aiming to kill
police on the street or in their offices.

"As soon as they thought special forces were there, they opened fire," he said.
"They were on the verge of committing important terror attacks."

Across Europe, anxiety has grown as the manhunt continues for potential
accomplices of the three Paris terrorists, all of whom were shot dead by police.
Authorities in Belgium signalled they were ready for more trouble by raising the
national terror alert level from two to three, the second-highest.

"It shows we have to be extremely careful," Mr Van der Sypt said. The Verviers
suspects "were extremely well-armed men".

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                     January 17, 2015 Saturday 9:50 AM GMT

Community leaders urge Londoners to remain united as city faces Paris-style
terror attack

BYLINE: Rachel Blundy

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 344 words


Community leaders in Hackney have called on Londoners to remain united in the
face of religious extremism after the recent terror attacks in Paris.

Representatives from the Muslim, Christian and Jewish communities, as well as
councillors and senior police officers, met at the Aziziye Mosque in Stoke
Newington today to condemn the atrocities carried out my Islamist gunmen in the
French capital last week.

They urged residents to resist becoming divided whilst the capital faces a
"severe" terror threat level.

Government ministers are discussing plans to increase security at border control
as Britain's security and police chiefs prepare responses to a Paris-style
attack in the city.

Speaking at the meeting in east London today, Cazenove ward councillor Abraham
Jacobson said Hackney "should be the beacon of light to the world" in its
response to the terrorist threat.

He said: "I live in probably one of the most ethnically diverse areas in Europe.
We have got people from all races and religions, all colours and creeds. We
differ and disagree but we do it with dignity."

Kings Park ward councillor Sharon Patrick said she hoped residents would "lead
by example" in their response to terrorism.

Related stories

She said: "This is a showcase of the good community relations that we have got
here in Hackney.

"If we could put it in a bottle and send it around the world then that would be
a good thing. Unfortunately we cannot do that but we can just lead by example."

Stoke Newington councillor Mete Coban said: "As a young person who grew up in
Hackney, I know one of the special things about it is that we have a strong
community cohesion and togetherness. It is important that we stand strong with
those in Paris and other parts of the world."

The event also saw a guest appearance from Turkish ambassador Abdurrahman
Bilgiç.

He said: "We strongly condemn these terrorist attacks. Islam is a religion of
peace. We will always stand up for democracy and freedom. The perpetrators of
these terrorist atrocities grossly betray the religion that they claim to come
from."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 17, 2015 Saturday 10:00 PM GMT

Leicester terrorist cell that laid seeds of Paris atrocity;
Two Algerian immigrants, one of whom is still in Britain, ran a network linked
to the perpetrators behind the terrorist attacks on Paris

BYLINE: By Robert Mendick Chief Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1936 words


Nobody ever suspected the two Algerian friends. Brahim Benmerzouga and Baghdad
Meziane had slipped into Britain undetected in 1997, refugees from Algeria, a
country bedevilled by civil war. The pair lived here illegally, largely
unnoticed and largely under the radar.

Benmerzouga had a fondness for fashionable Western clothing; Meziane, the older
of the two by seven years, was a quiet family man with a wife and two young
children. They merged in well in the predominantly Muslim area of Leicester they
chose as their new home.

Meziane, reckoned to be the ringleader, lived on a run-down street of Victorian
red-brick terraces while Benmerzouga occupied a house just around the corner.

They would often be seen playing football or attending a local mosque. Neither
aroused any suspicions among residents. Until, that is, at 7am on Sept 25 2001 -
just 14 days after the al-Qaeda attacks on the Twin Towers and Pentagon - armed
anti-terrorist officers kicked down their doors.

What they discovered behind the suburban exterior was an astonishing al-Qaeda
support cell that had been funding jihadists around the world.

Benmerzouga and Meziane were effectively running a factory supplying false
passports, fraudulent credit cards, military radio parts and visas to would-be
terrorists.

The pair had sent money to the Middle East and to Europe, and recruited
jihadists and sent them to training camps in Pakistan and Afghanistan.

Benmerzouga and Meziane had collected the names and credit card details for
almost 200 different bank accounts, collated on computer discs and written on
envelopes found littered around their homes and cars.

The credit cards were then sent to associates throughout Europe, allowing them
to fraudulently amass more than £200,000 for terrorist causes.

Police also found at Benmerzouga's home a haul of extremist videos, more than 60
in all, promoting suicide bombings and martyrdom, including 19 copies of a video
of Osama bin Laden.

At Meziane's home they found a passport in the name of Cyril Jacob, an alias
used by the Algerian to obtain a part-time job at a food factory in Corby,
Northants, and to claim £2,000 in income support, housing benefit and council
tax. Benmerzouga had three false passports in the names of Brahim Ben Merzouga,
Mohamed Mehdi Mesli and Amine Salmi, which he used for similar purposes.

They also possessed a forger's kit and notes in a code referring to "butter",
which talked about how to lift the plastic from the pages of a passport.

Coded emails were found on a computer in Meziane's home, talking of prices for
"washed" and "unwashed" clothes which are thought to have referred to doctored
travel visas.

Two years after their arrests, the pair were found guilty of raising funds for
terrorism after an eight-week trial. A third accomplice, Farid Belaribi, another
Algerian man who lived close by, pleaded guilty to credit card fraud, but the
authorities were unable to prove he knew he was fundraising for terrorist
activities.

Belaribi was jailed for four years while Benmerzouga, now 43, and Meziane, now
aged 49, received 11 years each.

Their imprisonment was not the end of it. The Leicester cell would sow the seeds
for the massacres in France more than 13 years later.

The Algerian network

The Leicester raids were no fluke. Eighteen days earlier on Sept 7 2001, Djamel
Beghal, a close friend of Meziane and Benmerzouga and who too had lived in
Leicester with his wife and four children, was detained at Dubai airport after
being caught travelling on a false passport supplied by his friends. Beghal,
another Algerian, and Meziane had known each other since the Nineties and both
were followers of Abu Qatada, the Muslim cleric often described as Osama bin
Laden's spiritual ambassador in Europe.

Both men regarded Qatada as their spiritual mentor and attended his now infamous
prayer meetings at the Four Feathers Social Club in Baker Street in central
London. Meziane, it later transpired, was in daily contact by phone with Qatada.
Beghal was also a regular at Finsbury Park mosque, run by Abu Hamza, the
hook-handed, one-eyed cleric. Hamza was jailed for life last week in New York
for terror offences while Qatada was deported to Jordan after a long-running
legal battle with the Home Office.

In custody in the United Arab Emirates, Beghal spilt the beans, confessing -
after allegedly being tortured - to plotting a suicide attack on the US embassy
and cultural centre in Paris.

Beghal was one of al-Qaeda's most serious players, regarded as the terrorist
organisation's European recruiting officer. He is thought to have helped recruit
Richard Reid, the al-Qaeda "shoe bomber" who tried to blow up a transatlantic
jet en route from Paris to New York.

Like Benmerzouga and Meziane, Beghal had allegedly been a member of Algeria's
Armed Islamic Group - the GIA, an Islamist group with al-Qaeda connections that
was committed to overthrowing Algeria's authoritarian but Western-backed regime.
Several alleged members of GIA would later be deported back to Algeria under a
special agreement reached after 9/11 but seven more Algerian terror suspects
would win the right to stay in a landmark Supreme Court judgment in 2012.

Beghal, 49, had moved to France when he was 22, marrying there in 1990. He
became a French citizen and promptly relocated to Britain in 1998, his French
passport allowing him to reside here legally. He moved to Leicester where he
first came into contact with Meziane and Benmerzouga. Beghal quit the UK for a
terror training camp in Afghanistan, travelling on one of Meziane and
Benmerzouga's false passports. His wife Sylvie Beghal would remain in Leicester
while Beghal would be sent, following his arrest, to France to stand trial. In
2005, Beghal was convicted of the suicide bomb plots and jailed for 10 years.
The conviction was later overturned but Beghal would go back to jail on another
charge. Last week, his wife, who lives in the UK on benefits and has lobbied to
have her husband returned here, reportedly complained about his treatment in
France. "He is a victim of French injustice," she said, "and yes he's a French
hostage."

The French Connection

With Beghal detained in the United Arab Emirates, his accomplice in the planned
suicide attack on the US embassy in Paris got spooked. Kamel Daoudi, 40, an
Algerian with computer and engineering expertise, had been living in Paris but
when news of his co-conspirator's arrest filtered through, he fled.

His destination, significantly, was Leicester, where he moved in with
Benmerzouga. The men had known each other for some years. According to Robin
Simcox, research fellow at the Henry Jackson Society and co-author of Islamist
Terrorism: The British Connections, Daoudi had been supplied by Benmerzouga and
Meziane with a false passport to travel to Afghanistan to train at an al-Qaeda
terror camp, where he learnt to handle explosives. The pair had even bought him
plane tickets to get there through a Birmingham travel agents.

What Daoudi had not realised when he fled Paris was that - as a result of the
information given by Beghal - he had been put under surveillance by French
authorities. He was followed to the Midlands and his movements tracked. For
days, anti-terrorism officers watched him in Leicester. On Sept 25, they moved
in. Benmerzouga and Meziane were swept up in the operation and police were
possibly surprised to discover the extent of their network.

Daoudi would be deported back to France where he stood trial alongside Beghal
and four others. He was jailed for nine years, one less than Beghal. Their plot
to blow up the US embassy had been foiled; but their imprisonment would have a
direct impact on the three-day assault on Paris that began with the barbaric
murder of staff at Charlie Hebdo magazine.

In 2005, the year they were jailed, Eliza Manningham Buller, then head of MI5,
wrote a note - seen by The Sunday Telegraph - in which she disclosed that
intelligence obtained from the Beghal plot was vital in a number of
counter-terrorism operations in France and the UK.

The Paris plotters

Beghal was sent to Fleury-Merogis prison, the largest in Europe, situated just
outside Paris. In there, Chérif Kouachi, a young French Algerian, was also
serving time. Kouachi and his brother Saïd, the children of poor immigrants
whose parents had both died, were struggling to get by; both easy targets for
radicalisation. Chérif Kouachi had been caught by the authorities trying to
reach Iraq and accused of being a terrorist. In jail, he came under the spell of
Beghal, described as his mentor and who in France earned the nickname Abu Hamza,
in honour of the cleric from Finsbury Park mosque.

Amedy Coulibaly was in the same jail. Of Malian descent and born into poverty,
Coulibaly had from the age of 17 transformed from schoolboy to minor gangster,
receiving convictions for armed robbery and drug trafficking. In 2005, he met
Kouachi and Beghal in jail and was soon converted to radical Islam.

By 2010, the trio - Chérif Kouachi, Coulibaly and Beghal - were hatching a new
plot. By now they were all out of jail and Beghal was living in Murat, Cantal,
in the Auvergne region of southern France. Koauchi and Coulibaly would visit
their mentor, bringing him food and money. Coulibaly would bring his new wife,
Hayat Boumeddiene, whom he had married in 2009. At Beghal's house, the men
hatched a new plan, this time to spring Smain Ait Ali Belkacem, another Algerian
terrorist, who had been imprisoned for the 1995 bombings in the Paris Metro
system.

The latest plot was again uncovered, with Beghal sentenced to 12 years and
Coulibaly returned to jail, while Kouachi escaped prosecution due to lack of
evidence.

What happened next is now all too familiar and too tragic. Coulibaly was
released from jail at some point in 2014 while surveillance of the Kouachi
brothers was lifted six months ago because they were considered a low risk.

The Kouachi brothers launched an attack on Charlie Hebdo magazine while
Coulibaly targeted a kosher supermarket. In all they murdered 17 innocent
people.

The aftermath

The Kouachi brothers and Coulibaly are dead while Boumeddiene, Coulibaly's
widow, is now subject to the world's biggest manhunt, having fled in the days
before the attack to Syria via Turkey. Beghal remains in jail. Meanwhile his
friends, Meziane and Benmerzouga had by 2009 - a fact previously disclosed by
The Sunday Telegraph - been released from jail and were living in bail hostels
in Leicester.

"Who knows what kind of monitoring and surveillance they were subjected to
during their time in probation hostels? It is extremely worrying," said Harry
Fletcher, a criminal justice expert and former senior probation union official.

Benmerzouga was finally deported back to Algeria in Jan 2010. Two weeks later,
he spoke to his British lawyer to tell her "he was well and had returned to his
family's home".

Meziane, however, remains in the UK, having fought a long legal battle to stay
here. His deportation was ordered by the courts as long ago as 2009 on leaving
prison, but he appears to have used the Human Rights Act to successfully stay
here. His whereabouts is currently unknown, although he is thought to still be
in the West Midlands. The Home Office has repeatedly said he "constituted a
danger to the community of the United Kingdom".

After the events of the past fortnight, those warnings will likely cause alarm
all the more. Baghdad Meziane remains at large.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 17, 2015 Saturday 8:00 PM GMT

Praying with a Muslim colleague ruined my career, says Christian NHS worker;
Claims by Christian NHS worker that she was discriminated against on religious
grounds after saying a prayer for a Muslim colleague come during a tense period
in relations between Islam and other faiths, following the Paris terrorist
attacks

BYLINE: By Patrick Sawer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1511 words


It was intended, she says, as a simple but heartfelt gesture of comfort and
support for a troubled colleague.

Victoria Wasteney put her hand on her friend's knee and, asking if she could
pray for her, said simply: "God, I trust You will bring peace and You will bring
healing."

So when Miss Wasteney was later suspended by the NHS from her position as a
senior occupational health therapist for having prayed with her colleague, she
was left distraught and angry.

The problem appeared to be that Miss Wasteney is a Christian and her colleague
was Muslim. And her employer - a health authority in one of Britain's most
ethnically mixed areas - deemed her behaviour to be a case of harassment and
bullying.

Miss Wasteney, 37, from Buckhurst Hill, Essex, had earlier lent the colleague -
who was going through health problems and personal issues at home - a book about
a Muslim woman who converts to Christianity, and also invited her to a number of
events organised by her church, including a community sports day and an
anti-human trafficking meeting.

East London NHS Foundation Trust suspended her for nine months on full pay.
Following an internal disciplinary hearing and subsequent appeal Miss Wasteney
accepted a written warning, to remain on her employment record for 12 months, as
well as a range of conditions designed to prevent her discussing her faith and
beliefs with colleagues.

But on Tuesday Miss Wasteney, who describes openly herself as a 'born-again
Christian', begins a legal challenge against the trust, claiming it
discriminated against her on grounds of religion and that it infringed her
rights under the European Convention on Human Rights.

She says she also wants to challenge what she regards as the stifling of
ordinary conversations about faith in the workplace.

"Its ridiculous that people now feel they cannot openly discuss religion or
their own spirituality," she said. "Do we want to reach the point where people
are scared to invite colleagues and work friends to events like their children's
Christening or a wedding for fear of offending?"

The case could not come at a more sensitive time.

The attack by three Islamist extremists on the French satirical magazine,
Charlie Hebdo, and a Jewish supermarket, in Paris, which left 17 innocent people
dead earlier this month, has led not only to renewed fears across Europe over
jihadi violence, but also to soul searching over relations between Muslims,
Christians and Jews and the sometimes competing issues of free speech and
respect for other religions.

Miss Wasteney said: "I'm not a hard-line evangelical. I'm not anti-Muslim. I
believe in freedom of speech, but I've always believed we should be sensitive to
one another's beliefs and feelings."

Indeed, as part of her job at the John Howard Centre, a secure mental hospital
in Homerton, east London, Miss Wasteney was concerned with patients' spiritual
well being and helped organise a number of faith activities, including Eid,
Diwali and Christmas, as well as ethnic minority events such as Black History
Month. There were also regular Friday prayers organised for Muslim patients and
staff.

"It's an important part of the therapeutical process that people discuss and
explore their feelings and beliefs," she said.

However Miss Wasteney, a member of the Christian Revival Church, which holds
services at the 02 Dome, said there was little provision or support for their
Christian counterparts and she believes there was an element of "anti-Christian
prejudice" within the organisation - something she says is now a reflection of
wider British society.

The events that led to the tribunal began shortly after Enya Nawaz, a young
Muslim woman from Birmingham, was appointed in July 2012 as a newly qualified
occupational therapist in the team of 30 supervised by Miss Wasteney.

The pair had met on previous occasions and soon struck up what Miss Wasteney
regarded as a friendship. She says they would often talk about their respective
religions and the common ground between Islam and Christianity.

"Jesus is a central figure in both religions and we discussed this and other
aspects quite openly and comfortably," she said. "It wasn't a case of me trying
to convert her, let alone force Christianity on her. How could you?"

Miss Wasteney says that on one occasion Miss Nawaz, 25, said she was interested
in the problem of human trafficking, and Miss Wasteney said her church was
involved in campaigning against the practice. The pair exchanged online
information and Miss Wasteney said Miss Nawaz expressed an interest in attending
her church to find out more about its work on modern slavery. Moss Wasteney also
gave her a DVD copy of a film on the subject.

In response to one invitation to attend a church youth event, Miss Nawaz emailed
Miss Wasteney saying: "I'm going home on Friday but hoping to be back for this."

When Miss Nawaz was due to go into hospital for treatment Miss Wasteney gave her
a book to read called I Dared to Call Him Father, about the spiritual journey of
a Muslim woman who eventually converts to Christianity. This had recently been
recommended to her by a friend of Muslim origin and she thought Miss Nawaz might
find it interesting.

Matters came to a head so e months later, after Miss Nawaz came into Miss
Wasteney's office in tears, upset about her ongoing health problems and personal
issues at home.

Miss Wasteney said: "She was very emotional and tearful and was talking to me
about her fear of dying. I put my hand on her knew to comfort her - asking her
if that was all right - and prayed with her, asking God to heal her.

"It was a natural and open thing for me to do and she didn't object in anyway."

But Miss Wasteney claims that over the following weeks Miss Nawaz came under
pressure from others in the organisation to make a complaint against her on
religious grounds. It also appears some in her community objected to her talking
freely about religious issues to a Christian woman.

In June 2013 Miss Wasteney was told Miss Nawaz had submitted an eight-page
complaint against her involving accusations of gross misconduct, accusing Miss
Wasteney of trying to convert her to Christianity, asking her to pray, 'laying
hands' on her, telling her she would not recover from illness unless she
converted, and giving her a book and DVD on conversion.

Miss Nawaz made the complaint after resigning from the trust, saying she was
unhappy with the job - even though Miss Wasteney had previously encouraged her
to stay.

Miss Wasteney, by now clearly upset with the turn of events, was suspended with
immediate effect and asked to leave the building.

She denied the allegations and now claims they were merely an excuse for the
Trust to mount a wider case against her for 'abusing her professional position'
by undertaking a campaign of Christian proselytism - something she also rejects.

She insists that throughout the time they worked together Miss Nawaz
"appreciated me showing an interest in her and inviting her to the Christian
events".

In February last year an internal disciplinary hearing found Miss Wasteney
guilty of three charges of misconduct - praying with the colleague, giving her
the book and inviting her to church events. The DVD was deemed irrelevant as it
was 'political' rather than 'religious'. Five other charges, including the
laying on of hands, were found to be unsubstantiated.

Miss Wasteney, originally from Sheffield, returned to work in March last year
but found it difficult to resume her previous duties and claims staff had in her
absence been encouraged to regard her as a "religious nutcase". Unable to carry
on she left the John Howard Centre and moved to another role at the trust's head
offices.

In documents submitted to the East London Employment Tribunal in advance of her
case she says: "My professional career has been jeopardised, my reputation
damaged, relations with colleagues ruined and I was subjected to an ordeal of
persecution dressed as 'disciplinary action' for an extraordinarily long time. I
was discriminated against because of my faith."

She told The Telegraph: "It's a dangerous society where diversity isn't embraced
and we can't talk about both each other's differences and our similarities. That
is how things like homophobia develop. We have to respect each other, but it's
not healthy to have subjects that are a no-go area."

Miss Wasteney's case is being supported by the Christian Legal Centre, which has
instructed Paul Diamond, a leading human rights barrister. Andrea Williams, the
centre's chief executive, said: " The way in which Victoria was treated
highlights the extraordinary anxiety we now feel over causing any offence to
Muslims. This creates a climate of fear and intimidation that keeps people from
speaking about what they believe."

She added: "There is a huge and increasing pressure on Christians to hide their
identity and not make their views known for fear of being punished or losing
their jobs."

The East London NHS Foundation Trust said it would not be appropriate to comment
in advance of the tribunal hearing.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     January 17, 2015 Saturday 2:01 PM GMT

Army deployed as Europe braces for more terror attacks

BYLINE: Adam Sage in Paris and Sonia Elks

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 855 words


Armed troops have been deployed in Belgium and Britain raised terror level
warnings for police as Europe braces for further attacks after a day of raids to
smash several alleged terror cells across the continent.

Belgian police said they had prevented a bloodbath with a series of raids
against a group allegedly "hours away" from launching a series of attacks
including police killings and assaults on courts and shops. They said that
Kalashnikov rifles, explosives, police uniforms, fake identity documents and
knives were among items recovered during the operation.

Eric Van der Sypt, a federal magistrate, said: "This group wanted to kill police
officers on the streets and in police stations. They were planning attacks all
over Belgium."

He said that authorities had captured the core members of the group, but more
suspects linked to the alleged terror cell could still be at large. "I cannot
confirm that we arrested everyone in this group," he told reporters.

Simultaneous but unconnected anti-terror operations also took place in Germany,
France and Ireland yesterday as authorities struggle to contain the threat posed
by former jihadists fighters in Syria and Iraq as well as small self-radicalised
units of extremists.

Today, the first of to 300 armed soldiers were sent out to patrol the capital
Brussels to and the northern city of Anvers, which has a large Jewish
population.

Meanwhile, Britain raised the terror threat against police to "severe", its
highest ever level. Patrols were also being stepped up in Jewish areas amid
"heightened concern" for the community following the recent fatal attack on a
Jewish supermarket in Paris.

Scotland Yard said yesterday that police were looking to introduce extra
security measures for frontline staff after the "deliberate targeting" of police
in recent European terrorist attacks.

The plot thwarted in Belgium highlights the development of a phenomenon that
police across Europe are calling the "marauding terrorist attack", characterised
by heavily armed, fast-moving gunmen targeting groups.

Events in the recent Charlie Hebdo Paris attacks also showed a targeted
approach, with the terrorists focusing on people they regard as enemies.

Belgian authorities said that some of those detained or killed yesterday were
among the thousands of people across Europe who have returned from fighting in
Syria.

Rob Wainwright, head of the police agency Europol, said that it was "extremely
difficult" to prevent attacks by the such radicalised former fighters, as they
tend to have few formal command structures and are increasingly sophisticated.

Two people were shot dead in a gunfight with armed police in Belgium, who moved
to arrest the suspects in co-ordinated raids on two premises in Verviers, six in
Molenbeek, and one each in Anderlecht, Brussels, Berchem and in Liedekerke. They
were met by a hail of gunfire as they arrived at the house in Verviers, and
officers fired back.

The men shot dead by police were named by the Belgian press yesterday as Redwane
Hajaoui, 22, and Tarik Jadaoun, about 24, of Verviers, near Liège, in eastern
Belgium.

Hajaoui left his family in January of last year, telling them he was visiting
his grandparents in Morocco. When he failed to arrive, he said he was in Turkey
and preparing to cross into Syria. he spent several months in the country before
returning to Belgium.

A total of 15 people were arrested during the series of raids, including two
peole in France, five of whom have been charged with terrorist offences.

Belgian authorities said they had acted to prevent an imminent attack by a
terror cell which would have been "worse than Paris", a reference to the 17
civilians and police killed there last week.

Prosecutors have said there were no immediate links with last week's Islamist
attacks in Paris on the Charlie Hebdo satirical magazine, a Jewish supermarket
and a policewoman, the country's worst attacks in half a century.

Meanwhile, French police separately arrested 12 people early on Friday and
questioned them about "possible logistic support" they may have given to the
Paris gunmen - Islamist brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi and Amedy Coulibaly,
sources said.

In Germany, security forces raided 12 homes and arrested two as they moved to
break up a network recruiting fighters for Islamic State, and a suspected
French-Algerian militant was arrested in Ireland as he attempted to enter the
country on a false passport.

President Francois Hollande has said France was "waging war" on terrorism and it
showed on the streets of Paris and elsewhere, where 122,000 police and
well-armed troops have already been deployed to protect the country, which is on
high alert.

Vincent Gilles, chairman of the police branch of the Free Union of the Civil
Service, said that detectives in France had intercepted text messages suggesting
that police officers in Belgium were to be attacked.

He added that Belgian officers had been aware of the "chatter" for days. "They
were not afraid but they were worried. It is a very strange feeling to think
that our colleagues were targeted. We are facing people trained for a war."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           January 17, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

15 held as Belgium thwarts possible terrorist attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 219 words


THIRTEEN people have been detained in Belgium and two in France in an
anti-terror sweep following a gunfight in which two suspected terrorists were
killed.

Authorities said a dozen searches in the Belgian city of Verviers had led to the
discovery of four military-style weapons including Kalashnikov assault rifles.

It comes after police moved in on a suspected terrorist hideout at a bakery in
the eastern city on Thursday, killing two suspects and wounding and arresting a
third. The arrested suspect was charged with belonging to a terrorist
organisation.

Unlike the Paris terrorists, who attacked the office of a satirical newspaper
and a kosher grocery store, the suspects in Belgium were reportedly aiming at
hard targets: police installations.

Eric Van der Sypt, a federal magistrate, said the terrorists were aiming to kill
police on the street or in their offices. "As soon as they thought special
forces were there, they opened fire," he said. "They were on the verge of
committing important terror attacks." Across Europe, anxiety has grown as the
manhunt continues for potential accomplices of the three Paris terrorists, all
of whom were shot dead by police. Authorities in Belgium signalled they were
ready for more trouble by raising the national terror alert level from two to
three, the second-highest.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A policeman guards the Belgian Federal Prosecutor's office in Brussels,
yesterday <B

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Asian Image

                            January 18, 2015 Sunday

Concerns over lack of response to UK terrorist attack on Sikh shopper

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 254 words


The British Sikh community has expressed great concern over the North Wales
Police, Crown Prosecution Service and UK media response after a man was attacked
with a machete.

A man appeared in court charged with attempting to murder a customer at a Tesco
store in Mold.

Zack Davies, 25, of King Street, Mold was charged with the attempted murder of
24-year-old Sarandev Brahambra at the Tesco superstore last Wednesday.

Davies was accused of attacking Mr Brahambra with a bladed weapon which left him
with deep cuts to the left hand, his back and the back of his head.

Kam Singh of Sikh Channel stated "Despite the incident in Wales clearly
demonstrating a terrorist attack has taken place against a British male, neither
the Police, Crown Prosecution Service, Politicians or Media have provided
anywhere near an adequate response to the incident.

"Furthermore, the whole incident is being actively downplayed despite containing
all the ingredients of a terrorist attack.

"The incident should be addressed as a terror attack and the Police across the
United Kingdom should be allocating resources towards the security of the Sikh
community and religious establishments.

"Sikhs regularly face the backlash following Islamist terror attacks in the
Western hemisphere however the Police still appear oblivious to the risk to the
Sikh community.

"The media has openly reported the vulnerability of the Jewish community but
remain mute on the Sikhs. Sikh Channel will be actively pursuing this issue to
ensure the safety of the Sikh community"

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 18, 2015 Sunday

Sudanese writer comments on terror attack on Charlie Hebdo

LENGTH: 561 words


Text of report by Sudanese electronic newspaper Sudanile website on 17 January

[Commentary by Faysal al-Baqir: "Was the Paris conquest victory for the Prophet
or revenge for the leaders?"].

Perhaps the "Paris Conquest" will open the eyes of the international community
to the bitter fact which has been absent and remains absent, or rather ignored.
This fact is that the phenomenon of "jihadist Islam" is nothing but a 100 per
cent Western product, nothing more or less, with nothing to do from near or far
with the prevailing moderate and tolerant Islam we and the good normal people
know. This is the Islam which advocates meeting argument with argument and
opinion with opinion. This is the Islam that calls for advocating religion
through gentle persuasion on the basis of the principle that "they have their
religion and opinion and I have my religion and opinion."

Europe has consistently sought to convince us that success in combating
corruption, extremism and hatred of others can be achieved by introducing and
promoting more democracy in our societies, not through security solutions.
Europe is now required to adopt the same criteria and recipe in facing the
scourge of extremism, violence, jihadist ideologies, racism, and Zionism. It has
to stop stereotyping and marginalization and to refrain from supporting
Islamophobic calls. It has to combat poverty and unemployment and empower a
culture that rejects racial and religious discrimination and xenophobia,. It
must refrain from adopting measures, policies, or practices against the freedom
and dignity of individuals and various minorities.

If freedom of expression in France and elsewhere grants Charlie Hebdo and its
likes full freedom to criticize religions, make fun of sacred values, and
slander religious symbols, and even publish offensive caricatures, the same
freedom gives the others every right to criticize and differ with them, but with
words and arguments and by resorting to courts, not by unholy violence by those
who call themselves mujahidin.

With the calculations of profits and loss, Charlie Hebdo which used to print
60,000 copies decided after the attack on it by Da'ish [Arabic acronym for ISIL,
Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant] to print three million copies. In
addition, a number of Western newspapers decided to republish the offensive
caricatures in solidarity or to promote their distribution. More important was
the wide publicity and solidarity Charlie Hebdo gained after it used to be an
unknown and controversial publication even in its own country.

The claim about "taking vengeance for the Prophet" made by one of the
perpetrators of the attack on Charlie Hebdo is neither accurate nor truthful.
This is because the magazine published before offensive caricatures about the
honourable Prophet and this so-called vengeance came only after it published a
caricature about the leader of Da'ish. Those who are able to think and are
enlightened are entitled to ask whether this attack by Da'ish was vengeance for
the honourable Prophet or for the organization's leader. One can be amazed at
how the jihad of "darkness" can invade the city of light.

Over and above all this, there is a big and vast difference between adopting,
promoting, and defending a discourse of hatred and between freedom of expression
and thinking.

Source: Sudanile website, Khartoum, in Arabic 17 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      January 18, 2015 Sunday 2:23 PM GMT

Police step up security to protect Scots Jews in wake of France terror attacks;

SCOTS police have tightened security in Jewish communities following the Kosher
supermarket attack in Paris.

BYLINE: By Lauren Crooks

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 688 words


POLICE in Scotland have stepped up patrols in Jewish neighbourhoods in the wake
of France terror attacks.

Police Scotland said they have had no intelligence about specific threats but
confirmed they have increased their ­visibility after the Paris attack on a
kosher supermarket.

They have been liaising with communities across the country to provide
reassurance.

DCC Iain Livingstone said: "There is currently no ­information in respect of a
threat to any individual or community.

"However, we are, of course, assessing the impact of recent events in Europe and
­responding accordingly.

Paris unity march: One million people take to the streets of the French capital

"We are liaising closely with our communities, including the Jewish community,
to ­provide reassurance to them at this time.

"We are also conducting high-visibility patrols in and around potentially
vulnerable areas. These arrangements are ongoing and subject to ­reassessment."

Around 10,000 Jews live in Scotland - where there are eight synagogues and one
­Jewish school - with many ­living in Giffnock and Newton Mearns in Glasgow.

The police move mirrors a UK-wide decision which has seen patrols in Jewish
­neighbourhoods and near ­Jewish schools increased.

Assistant commissioner Mark Rowley, the national police lead for counter
­terrorism, said: "We are seeing continuing anti-Semitic ­rhetoric from
extremists and attacks on this community in France and ­elsewhere."

Charlie Hebdo shootings: Hostages held in a kosher grocery store in Porte de
Vincennes

The terrorism threat level was raised to severe last August, meaning an attack
is highly likely.

And the number of calls to anti-terror hotlines has increased significantly in
the past few months.

The European Union's law enforcement agency admitted a terrorist attack cannot
be ruled out.

Rob Wainwright, director of Europol, said: "Stopping ­everything is very
difficult, containing the threat fully is very difficult, but I'm sure we will
prevail, as we have ­prevailed against other forms of terrorism in the past."

Asked on Sky News whether he was saying there was no guarantee attacks such as
those in Paris could be stopped, he said: "No, there can't be, otherwise what
happened in Paris wouldn't have happened. I think there is a realisation across
the police and security community in Europe.

"But at the same time, we have a strong ­determination to maximise our
capability to keep our citizens safe."

And Japanese prime ­minister Shinzo Abe said the world would suffer an
"immeasurable loss" if terrorism spread in the Middle East.

He pledged more than 130million in non-military assistance for countries
­battling Islamic State.

Meanwhile in Belgium, up to 300 soldiers have been deployed to guard potential
terror targets.

It is the first time in 30 years that authorities have used troops to reinforce
police in Belgium's cities.

The country launched a series of raids last Thursday on a group of suspected
jihadists and a shootout left two ­suspects dead.

Prosecutors said the group had planned to kill police ­officers.

Thirteen people were arrested and five were charged with participating in
activities of a terrorist group.

It comes as Said Kouachi, one of the gunmen who attacked the offices of Charlie
Hebdo, was quietly buried.

After an initial refusal, the mayor of the city Reims said he was forced to
backtrack and allow the burial.

Kouachi and his brother Cherif were killed by French counter-terrorism police
after murdering 12 people at the offices of the satirical ­magazine.

Last night, the European ­terror dragnet spread to Greece. Police detained four
people over alleged links to the raids in Belgium.

One of the men, aged 27, is alleged to have been in regular contact with the
Islamists in the Belgian town of Verviers.

Greek officers were given the identity of the man, who, like the three suspects
in the ­Belgian raid, had returned from fighting in Syria.

Reports in Belgium suggest that the suspect in Greece was the brother of one of
the alleged extremists and had been coordinating the group's ­movements by
contacting them in a secret code.

Quick Quiz: News 18/1/15

Facebook banner

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      January 18, 2015 Sunday 7:58 AM GMT

Hateful and here: German Anti-Islam extremists rally in Glasgow in bid to
recruit Scots;
GERMAN anti-Islamic group Pegida have been growing rapidly since the Paris
terror attacks. Now a Scottish wing has emerged with organisers visiting Glasgow
last week.

BYLINE: By Derek Alexander

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 982 words


A GERMAN anti-Islamic group linked with the murder of a refugee have launched a
recruitment drive in Scotland.

Dresden-based ­Pegida have been growing rapidly since the Paris terrorist
attacks which left 17 people dead .

They only launched a few months ago but tens of thousands of people have marched
in cities across Germany in support of Pegida - which stands for Patriotic
Europeans Against the ­Islamisation of the Occident.

Now a Scottish wing has emerged and we can reveal German organisers ­visited
Glasgow last week with plans to stage an anti-Islam demonstration.

Opponents claim they are attached to violent right-wing ­extremists and football
hooligan groups.

Eritrean refugee Khaled Idris Bahray was stabbed to death hours after 40,000
people joined a weekly Pegida demo in Dresden on Monday night.

Paris unity march: One million people take to the streets of the French capital

Khaled lived with other asylum ­seekers and a swastika with the warning, "We'll
get you all" was scrawled on their front door three days before he was
­murdered.

The Pegida pair were in Glasgow last ­weekend and visited pubs where they tried
to recruit members.

A Pegida Scotland and North East ­England Facebook page was launched early last
Sunday.

One source said: "The two German guys were being shown around a few of the
city's bars by another man who was acting as their guide.

"They met other ­people and were ­talking about the Pegida movement and how they
were looking to establish links in Scotland."

Charlie Hebdo shootings: Hostages held in a kosher grocery store in Porte de
Vincennes

The attempts to gain a ­foothold in Scotland are part of a UK-wide attempt to
build ­support for Pegida.

Organisers confirmed there were "two people on the Glasgow team".

Pegida's rapid rise in Germany has led to branches opening in Poland, Spain,
­Switzerland, Sweden, Iceland and the USA.

They call for immigrants to integrate and embrace Western culture or be turfed
out.

Pegida was started last October by Lutz Bachmann, a 41-year-old former
professional footballer who has a ­conviction for possessing cocaine.

Shocking new footage of Charlie Hebdo gunmen's shootout with police

Bachmann's first march attracted just 350 people but seven days later 500 folk
attended the next demo. Numbers have climbed weekly and on Monday 40,000 turned
up to hear Bachmann speak. Their support has swelled further since the Paris
attacks in which 12 people were killed at French magazine Charlie Hebdo, a
policewoman was shot dead in the street and four hostages died during the siege
at a Jewish supermarket.

Pegida's rise led to German chancellor Angela Merkel say in her New Year speech:
"I say to all those who go to such ­demonstrations - do not follow those who
have called the rallies because all too often they have prejudice, coldness,
even hatred in their hearts."

Anti-racism campaigners say the group's rallies have been infiltrated by
neo-Nazis and ­football hooligans.

Last month Pegida published a ­manifesto calling for tighter ­immigration
controls and for the West's Judaeo-Christian culture to be ­"protected". But
Bachmann denies they are ­racist and has vowed to prevent them being hijacked by
extremists.

Gerry Gable, of anti-fascist group Searchlight, said: "I've never seen so much
international activity in my 50 years editing Searchlight magazine.

Video: Charlie Hebdo prints Prophet Mohammed cover after Paris attacks

"Pegida may prove to be a recruiter for the extreme right and a precursor for a
lot more violence. But I don't believe they are as strong as they report and
they only seem to attract huge numbers in Dresden."

Graeme Atkinson, of anti-racism ­charity Hope Not Hate, said: "Pegida will
attract the same sort of support as other far-right groups and become more of a
policing problem than a political one.

"They've been outnumbered by anti-fascists anywhere they've marched." One of the
first people to leave a ­message on Pegida's Scottish Facebook page was Gareth
O'Neill, 40, from ­Glasgow's ­Townhead.

Pediga Scotland announced within hours of going online: "We intend to hold a
demo in the near future."

This was followed by a ­message from O'Neill which read: "We will have a tough
time in Scotland considering the pro-Islamic/anti-Semitic sentiment endemic in
the political ­movement but we must ­persevere."

Gunshots and woman runs to hide behind car - first scene video from Paris
shooting

O'Neill also wrote on January 12: "Many of those opposed to our organisation
come from the left-wing and it is them who have spoon-fed the post-9/11
generation their anti-Semitic, estern hatred."

He told our reporter: "I'm ­neither a founding or formal member of Pegida.

"All I do is post on their ­Facebook page. If they start shifting to the
extreme-right, I won't be following them."

Campaigners say the UK's far-right movement are weak following a period of
infighting.

But a new generation of young neo-Nazis with a thirst for ­racist violence are
­emerging.

A group called National Action emerged following the decline of the British
National Party (BNP), the ­English Defence League (EDL) and the Scottish Defence
League (SDL).

National Action visit colleges and universities to recruit members.

Gable said: "Forget about the BNP, the EDL and the SDL.

"National Action are highly organised with a lot of foreign money backing them
up. They're not looking to attract thickos who just want a fight. They want
thinkers who are prepared to die for National Socialism."

Scotland's External Affairs Minister Humza Yousaf, a Glasgow MSP, said: "The
anti-Islam rallies in Germany have rightly and strongly been condemned by the
German government.

"In Scotland and the UK, we must do the same and ensure we do not pander to the
xenophobic politics of division but say with one voice that this ­behaviour and
targeting of ­communities is not in our name - not now, not ever."

Quick Quiz: News 18/1/15

Facebook banner

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 18, 2015 Sunday 6:03 PM GMT

Police told to take their names off the electoral register amid spiralling fears
of extremist terror attack

BYLINE: IAN DRURY FOR THE DAILY MAIL and MARK DUELL FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 940 words



     ·    Security is dramatically stepped up for police and Jewish community
     ·    Comes amid fears from intelligence chiefs there could be terror attack
     ·    Worries that fanatics could try to copy atrocities in Paris last week
     ·    The country's 70 Jewish schools have also been put on high alert
     ·    Duchess of Cambridge had heightened security at a visit this week
     ·    C ameron and Obama have pledged to stand together to fight terrorism


Police have been told to remove their names from the electoral register, it was
claimed today.

The alleged guidance from the Metropolitan Police in London comes as security
was dramatically stepped up for officers and the Jewish community in Britain
amid fears of a terror attack.

Intelligence chiefs are worried that Islamist fanatics could try to copy the
atrocities in France earlier this month that cost 17 lives. Four Jewish people
and three police officers were among the dead.

Fears of similar carnage in the UK intensified on Thursday after commandos in
Belgium killed Islamic State fanatics who wanted to behead a policeman or a
judge.

The plot held chilling echoes of the murder of Fusilier Lee Rigby outside his
barracks in Woolwich, south-east London, in May 2013.

The guidance to Met officers was reported by  The Sunday Times, which also
claimed that an additional 800 counter-terrorism police could be deployed on
Britain's streets.

In addition, the newspaper said Scotland Yard was in talks with the Home Office
about extra funding to fight the increased threat to Britain.

The Met would not comment on whether police had been told to remove their names
from the electoral register when contacted by MailOnline tonight.

However, a spokesman said earlier today: 'We do not discuss the details of our
security response.

'But actions taken already include security advice to officers and staff;
measures around police buildings; changing risk assessments that affect how we
deploy to certain incidents; (and) bolstering levels of specialist support,
including firearms officers.

'The MPS has not decided to implement a blanket response regarding levels of
crewing and patrolling in response to concerns about the risk of an attack on
officers.'

He added: 'Senior officers across London have reviewed and will continue to
review procedures as part of our established risk assessment process.

'This will also take into account the risks to public safety, to ensure that any
changes to our approach to patrolling, or responding to calls, recognises the
potential risks to all communities.'

Last week, in other developments:


     ·    David Cameron and Barack Obama pledged to stand shoulder to shoulder
          in the fight against terrorism
     ·    Intelligence sources said as many as 20 sleeper cells with 180
          fanatics could be ready to strike in Europe
     ·    Nearly 800 people have been put on a Home Office programme targeting
          potential extremists
     ·    The Duchess of Cambridge has reportedly been given enhanced security
          on a public appearance


Mark Rowley, the UK's senior counter-terrorism officer, said: 'The global
picture of terrorist activity does give us heightened concern about the risk to
the Jewish community.'

The Met assistant commissioner said the murders at a kosher supermarket in
Paris, coupled with a rise in anti-semitic rhetoric from extremists, justified
more patrols in areas with large Jewish populations, including London, Leeds and
Manchester.

Some 263,000 people in Britain describe themselves as Jewish. The country's 70
Jewish schools have been put on high alert.

The Community Security Trust, which advises Jewish institutions and groups on
safety, said: 'We spend an inordinate amount of money on security, particularly
on our schools - as we should.

'Obviously there's a change in the threat level because there could be people
who might be perversely inspired by what they saw happen [in Paris].'

Mr Rowley added: 'We are also considering what further measures we might put in
place to enhance the security of police officers, given some of the deliberate
targeting of the police we have seen in a number of countries across Europe and
the world.'

He said the authorities were also looking at the safety of other minority
communities.

Speaking after talks with President Obama at the White House, Mr Cameron said:
'It's very important to learn the lessons from anything happening elsewhere in
Europe.

'Could that happen here? What steps should be taken? So the police have
announced today that they'll be stepping up patrols, particularly to protect the
Jewish community.

'We have to be incredibly vigilant and look at all of these risks, particularly
risks to police officers themselves and take every action that we can.'

The Prime Minister used the talks to press for tougher action to require
internet firms to join the fight against terror by alerting authorities to
suspicious exchanges online.

An official report last year concluded that Facebook failed to pass on
information that could have prevented the murder of Fusilier Rigby and the site
was a 'safe haven for terrorists'.

Investigators across Europe are working around the clock to target returning
Islamic State fighters.

The UK security services believe around 600 British Muslims have travelled to
Syria and Iraq to join the so-called jihad, with around half now back home.
Counter-terror chiefs fear they may carry out 'lone wolf' attacks.

Professor Michael Clarke, director-general of the Royal United Services
Institute, a defence think-tank, said the chance of marauding attacks by armed
gunmen was 'likely to increase'.

Last year 3,934 potential extremists were referred to a Government
deradicalisation programme and 777 were assessed as such a danger that they
needed to take part.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 18, 2015 Sunday 3:56 PM GMT

Security for police officers is stepped up in bid to prevent British copycat
terror attack in wake of Paris murders

BYLINE: IAN DRURY, HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT FOR THE DAILY MAIL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 690 words



     ·    Security being dramatically stepped up for police and Jewish community


     ·    Comes amid fears from intelligence chiefs there could be a terror
          attack
     ·    Worries that fanatics could try to copy atrocities in Paris last week
     ·    The country's 70 Jewish schools have also been put on high alert
     ·    Duchess of Cambridge had heightened security at a visit this week
     ·    David Cameron and Barack Obama have pledge to stand together to fight
          terrorism


Security was dramatically stepped up for police officers and the Jewish
community in Britain today amid fears of a terror attack.

Intelligence chiefs are worried that Islamist fanatics could try to copy the
atrocities in France last week that cost 17 lives.

Four Jewish people and three police officers were among the dead.

Fears of similar carnage in the UK intensified on Thursday after commandos in
Belgium killed Islamic State fanatics who wanted to behead a policeman or a
judge.

The plot held chilling echoes of the murder of Fusilier Lee Rigby outside his
barracks in Woolwich.

In other developments:


     ·    David Cameron and Barack Obama pledged to stand shoulder to shoulder
          in the fight against terrorism


     ·    Intelligence sources said as many as 20 sleeper cells with 180
          fanatics could be ready to strike in Europe


     ·    Nearly 800 people have been put on a Home Office programme targeting
          potential extremists


     ·    The Duchess of Cambridge has reportedly been given enhanced security
          on a public appearance


Mark Rowley, the UK's senior counter-terrorism officer, said: 'The global
picture of terrorist activity does give us heightened concern about the risk to
the Jewish community.'

The Met assistant commissioner said the murders at a kosher supermarket in
Paris, coupled with a rise in anti-semitic rhetoric from extremists, justified
more patrols in areas with large Jewish populations, including London, Leeds and
Manchester.

Some 263,000 people in Britain describe themselves as Jewish. The country's 70
Jewish schools have been put on high alert.

The Community Security Trust, which advises Jewish institutions and groups on
safety, said: 'We spend an inordinate amount of money on security, particularly
on our schools - as we should.

'Obviously there's a change in the threat level because there could be people
who might be perversely inspired by what they saw happen [in Paris].'

Mr Rowley added: 'We are also considering what further measures we might put in
place to enhance the security of police officers, given some of the deliberate
targeting of the police we have seen in a number of countries across Europe and
the world.'

He said the authorities were also looking at the safety of other minority
communities.

Speaking after talks with President Obama at the White House, Mr Cameron said:
'It's very important to learn the lessons from anything happening elsewhere in
Europe.

'Could that happen here? What steps should be taken? So the police have
announced today that they'll be stepping up patrols, particularly to protect the
Jewish community.

'We have to be incredibly vigilant and look at all of these risks, particularly
risks to police officers themselves and take every action that we can.'

The Prime Minister used the talks to press for tougher action to require
internet firms to join the fight against terror by alerting authorities to
suspicious exchanges online.

An official report last year concluded that Facebook failed to pass on
information that could have prevented the murder of Fusilier Rigby and the site
was a 'safe haven for terrorists'.

Investigators across Europe are working around the clock to target returning
Islamic State fighters.

The UK security services believe around 600 British Muslims have travelled to
Syria and Iraq to join the so-called jihad, with around half now back home.
Counter-terror chiefs fear they may carry out 'lone wolf' attacks.

Professor Michael Clarke, director-general of the Royal United Services
Institute, a defence think-tank, said the chance of marauding attacks by armed
gunmen was 'likely to increase'.

Last year 3,934 potential extremists were referred to a Government
deradicalisation programme and 777 were assessed as such a danger that they
needed to take part.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 18, 2015 Sunday 3:22 PM GMT

Australian jihadi turns against his own: Islamic State terrorist Mohamed Elomar
has attacked two former mentors in his latest online tirade, accusing them of
being spies

BYLINE: CINDY TRAN FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 652 words



     ·    IS terrorist Mohamed Elomar has taken to social media to rant
     ·    The former Sydney resident claims Sheik Feiz Mohammed and Islamic
          cleric Sheik Abu Ayman are working with ASIO
     ·    The tweet follows after c hilling posts emerged from a new jihadist
     ·    Suhan Rahman, from Melbourne fled to the Middle East to join IS in
          Syria
     ·    The 23-year-old student was spotted with Elomar in the photographs


Islamic State terrorist Mohamed Elomar has taken to social media to claim his
former mentor Sheik Feiz Mohammed and Islamic cleric Sheik Abu Ayman are working
as spies.

Following the Hyde Park riot in 2012, Sheik Feiz described the behaviour of the
former Sydney boxer and other extremists as 'unacceptable'.

It is understood that the tweets were made by an account linked to Elomar on
Twitter but Sheik Ayman has refused to comment,  The Daily Telegraph  reports.

In his latest online tirade, the tweet claims the pair are working with the ASIO
and called Sheik Ayman a 'murtad' which means a person who was born to a Muslim
family who later rejects Islam.

Scroll down for video

'Abu Ayman from Melbourne is his Amir who is Murtad and openly declares that he
speaks to ASIO for the benefit of the Deen. So dies Fiez [sic],' he tweeted.

The father of four grabbed global headlines and gained notoriety after he
tweeted pictures of himself smiling as he held up two decapitated heads of
Syrian soldiers.

In 2007, his father Mamdouh Elomar slammed the clerics who he believes
radicalised his sons in Sydney.

Mr Elomar told The Sun-Herald  last year that he urged his children to stay away
from Sheik Mohammed at the Global Islamic Youth Centre.

'Sheiks like Feiz ruin people,' Mr Elomar said.

'He is not a sheik; he is brainwashing all these children. I know my religion,
so I can tell him when he is wrong, but these kids believe everything he says
and think it's their religion. Someone needs to stop him.

'Today our kids are either at one extreme, partying or using drugs, or at
another extreme with their religion. I don't teach my children to hate
non-Muslims. I have taught them to love everyone.'

This tweet follows after a Muslim man from Melbourne who fled to the Middle East
to join the fight with Islamic State threatened a terrorist attack in Australia
on social media.

Chilling photographs emerged on Facebook of Suhan Rahman who was pictured with
Elomar.

Rahman's family has made a desperate plea after the 23-year-old's father Lutfur
Rahman alerted authorities in a bid to bring their son back home, The Daily
Telegraph reports.

Mr Rahman has been told by the Australian Federal Police Counter-Terrorism Squad
that they are monitoring his son's every movement overseas.

His father has been left distraught after learning his son's decision when he
slipped out of the country with three other men to join the death cult in Syria.

'We hoped that he would never get into this type of thing,' his father has told
the Daily Telegraph.

'Everything was OK then suddenly he just left the country.'

Victoria Police are currently investigating following the threats posted on the
university student's Facebook page.

'I say stuf [sic] the peaceful protests. Spill blood young aussies. Dont be
humiliated especially if u cant b here in sham [sic],' Rahman posted on Thursday
morning.

'Wallah theres no good left in u if none of u [sic] do something about the
australian newspaper mocking our prophet pbuh. Dont be cowards. Wheres the
honour whrres [sic] the courage. Let the heads fly and blood flow.'

In another post, he wrote: 'May allah accept the french brothers who terrorised
france. Allahu akbar. Day by day we will bring the war home to you.'

Along with the postings on his page, Rahman also uploaded one photograph of
himself wielding a high-powered silver rifle AK47.

His previous posts painted a keen young reveller at Melbourne nightclubs who
enjoyed partying with his mates, rap music and fast cars but in recent months,
he has taken an eerie turn.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 18, 2015 Sunday 3:02 PM GMT

ISIS 'is using British female extremists to incite UK terror attacks' amid fears
pupils are still at risk of being radicalised in schools

BYLINE: LUCY CROSSLEY FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 794 words



     ·    Experts identify 30 British women encouraging others to launch attacks
     ·    International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation warns women are
          actively helping to recruit other female extremists
     ·    Authorities hunting Hayat Boumeddiene, wife of gunman Amedy Coulibaly
     ·    She is suspected of helping plan Paris attacks before fleeing to Syria
     ·    Ofsted chief expected to warn children at risk of radicalisation in
          schools
     ·    Comes despite crackdown following 'Trojan Horse' scandal in Birmingham


ISIS is using British female extremists to incite other UK women to carry out
terror attacks, according to researchers, as fears are raised that pupils are
still at risk of being radicalised in schools.

Experts at King's College London say they have identified a group of around 30
British women in northern Syria, who are encouraging others to launch terrorist
attacks in the UK.

The International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation (ICSR) has studied the
social media accounts of female jihadis, and has found that instead of
supporting their male counterparts, many are actively helping to recruit female
would-be extremists, often encouraging them to carry out atrocities in the UK.

Details of the study comes as Britain and the rest of Europe remain on high
alert following the shootings in Paris earlier this month.

Authorities are still hunting Hayat Boumeddiene, the wife of kosher supermarket
killer Amedy Coulibaly, who is thought to have fled to Syria to join up with
Islamic State fighters.

She is suspected of helping plan the Paris attacks, but had left France before
the Kouachi brothers - Cherif, 32, and Said, 34, opened fire on the offices of
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, arriving in Istanbul on January 2.

Around 50 British women and girls are thought to have joined ISIS, with the
majority based in the jihadist's stronghold Raqqa and aged between 16 and 24.

Among them are 16-year-old twins Salma and Zahra Halane who fled their home in
Chorlton, Manchester, to follow their brother to Syria - where it is believed
they have married IS fighters.

Former public schoolgirl Aqsa Mahmood, 20, from Glasgow, is known to have been
in Raqqa helping to organise religious patrols.

It has previously been thought that women have travelled to Iraq and Syria to
join ISIS ranks as wives, but ICSR's findings suggest they are playing a more
active role.

ICSR research fellow Melanie Smith, who heads the first known database of female
foreign fighters, told The Observer : 'British women tend to incite [attacks],
they say to people that can't move to the Islamic State: "Why not carry out
something at home?"

'That's a common message: if you can't leave your family behind or afford to
move to Syria then carry out something.'

Ms Smith added that women have often been recruited in the past to carry out
suicide attacks.

School inspectors are also expected to warn that children are still at risk from
Islamic extremism, despite a crack down in the wake of the Trojan Horse scandal.

Four separate investigations were conducted last year into allegations in
Birmingham, which were originally sparked by the 'Trojan Horse' letter - now
widely believed to be a hoax - that referred to an alleged plot by hardline
Muslims to seize control of a number of school governing boards in the city.

In June, Ofsted issued a damning verdict on the running of a number of
Birmingham's schools and declared five failing, placing them into special
measures.

These schools were Golden Hillock School, Nansen Primary School and Park View
Academy - all run by the Park View Educational Trust (PVET) - as well as Oldknow
Academy and Saltley School.

In an update published in September, Ofsted said that these schools had not
improved, with chief inspector Sir Michael Wilshaw saying that 'very little
action' had been taken to address the serious concerns raised about each
school's performance, amid slow progress in appointing new governors and senior
leaders.

Sir Michael is expected to warn a meeting of the education select committee
later this month that he is still 'very concerned' about a continued risk of
extremism in schools, Whitehall sources told  The Sunday Times.

Nearly half of the 4,000 referrals to the Government's Channel programme, which
aims to target children and adults who are vulnerable to radicalisation before
they become terrorists, have reportedly been under 18.

Some have these have been as a result of teachers cracking down on pupils feared
to be at risk of fleeing the UK to fight in Syria.

One headteacher said four children at her north London school had been reported
to the Prevent programme, of which Channel is a part, including a 16-year-old
girl who wanted to fundraise for ISIS, and a 15-year-old boy who had made a
'throwaway' comment about fighting in Syria.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                      January 18, 2015 Sunday 12:04 PM GMT

'Pencil is mightier than the sword': Artist's tiny sculpture to mark Charlie
Hebdo terror attacks in Paris;
Hedley Wiggan, from Bolton, crafted the poignant minature tribute - called
Mightier Than - from the lead of a pencil

BYLINE: By Paul Britton

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 396 words


A unique artist has crafted a poignant sculpture to mark the Charlie Hebdo
terror massacre in Paris - within the lead of a pencil.

Hedley Wiggan's tiny tribute carries a towering message.

The talented painter and sculptor has been crafting intricate designs within the
lead of pencils for more than five years, often spending weeks delicately
carving out works under a microscope or magnifying glass.

Now he hopes to showcase his latest design, titled Mightier Than, at an
exhibition he has been invited to showcase his work at in Paris later this year.

The minute masterpiece shows a hand holding a sword aloft. The larger dimensions
of the pencil symbolise the 'pen is mightier than the sword' message.

Hedley, a 49-year-old dad from Tonge Moor, Bolton, said he was deeply moved by
the gun attacks at the offices of the French satirical magazine.

The 'Je Suis Charlie', or 'I am Charlie', message of support has been displayed
around the world as a symbol of solidarity after eight journalists and four
others were killed.

Pencil is mightier than the sword

This gallery features some of Hedley's amazing work

Hedley, a theatre technician at Wigan Royal Infirmary, said the pencil was two
inches long against the centimetre-tall design.

He said: "The events in Paris were devastating so I just thought I would do
something to say the pen is mightier than the sword. It is a statement. It
represents the freedom of the written word.

"I just felt strongly enough by what happened to carve the work. Paris is the
city of love and I have friends out there. It has affected everyone."

Hedley's amazing works follow in the footsteps of his older brother Willard, a
world-renowned micro-sculptor who creates art within the eyes of needles and on
pinheads.

His other miniature works, all crafted at his home in Bolton, include carvings
on lead of One Direction's Harry Styles, The Beatles and caricatures of The
Rolling Stones.

Hedley, who carved his latest design in five days, said: "I have been working
day and night on it.

"I have always worked with pencil lead but I also use cocktail sticks. I carve
with the naked eye but for the smallest details, I do use a microscope. I have
been selling paintings here and there but private buyers have enquired about my
sculptures and bought them.

"I plan to take Mightier Than over to Paris and perhaps auction it off for a
charity over there."

Hedley Wiggan

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Stamford Mercury

                            January 18, 2015 Sunday

Rutland MP Alan Duncan addresses Charlie Hebdo terror attacks

LENGTH: 191  words


Rutland MP Alan Duncan joined a Jordanian prince to address political and
humanitarian challenges in the Middle East at a London conference.

Conservative Mr Duncan, a former Minister of State for International
Development, spoke alongside Prince El Hassan bin Talal at a dinner and
discussion organised by Islamic Relief and the Council for Arab-British
Understanding.

Mr Duncan addressed the terrorist attacks in France last week.

He said: "I call on all Muslims, and indeed all people, to be united in their
utter condemnation of last week's murderous atrocity in Paris. I similarly call
on everyone in the UK to stand united against terrorism, and not to drop our
standards by taking it out on any of our own citizens who happen to be Muslim.

"We must all be determined to take a vigorous stand against terror and
extremism, but we are not in some sort of war against Muslims in general. What
we oppose is so-called Islamic extremism, and terrorism in all its forms.

"Supporting humanitarian relief in Syria is to be applauded, but going there to
fight should be condemned. We should all work together to increase the former,
and stop the latter."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MSMP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            January 18, 2015 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Ireland can play a huge part in fight against terrorism;
SUNDAY ISSUE the SINISTER AND BARBARIC ATTACKS BY VIOLENT ISLAMIC FANATICS HAVE
EU LEADERS ON HIGH ALERT

BYLINE: PAT BREEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 768 words


THE cold-blooded murder of 17 innocent people in Paris last week sent shockwaves
through Europe.

There are now genuine concerns that IS fighters returning from Syria could carry
out further attacks.

Pat Breen TD, Chair of the Oireachtas Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and
Trade, believes Ireland has a pivotal role to play in making sure that does not
happen.

have shaken France and the European Union.

But the response by millions of French and European citizens has shown that a
terrorist attack cannot possibly destroy a way of life and the universal values
we all share.

Our sympathies must lie first and foremost with the victims and their families.
The attack on Charlie Hebdo, as well as being a barbaric act against editors,
journalists and cartoonists, was also an assault on free speech.

The following day's massacre at a Parisian kosher supermarket, which killed
four, was a brutal, cowardly and sinister anti-Semitic act.

Thursday evening's raid in Verviers, Belgium, during which two suspected
terrorists were killed, has added to the sense of unease across Europe.

The silver lining in this dark cloud has been the extraordinary response of the
French people - of all creeds and none - to this wanton violence.

Last Sunday, an unprecedented three million people marched peacefully with
dignity, resolve and defiance in cities across France, along with world leaders
including the Taoiseach.

France's Ambassador to Ireland, Jean-Pierre Thébault, has acknowledged the
solidarity on display by ordinary Irish people in standing with their French
counterparts in the spirit of liberty, equality and fraternity.

There was also a minute's silence in the Dail this week, and the statements
which followed displayed the strength of the solidarity with the French people
from across the political spectrum here.

The Oireachtas Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Trade has been playing a
role at national and EU levels too, and has kept in close contact with the
French Embassy and Ambassador Thébault.

A cross-party committee, which I have the privilege of chairing, has a diverse
membership that leaves party politics at the door as we work to ensure Ireland's
interests and values are appropriately represented on the world stage.

We always seek to encourage and participate in dialogue in an effort to increase
the understanding that people of opposing viewpoints have of others' opinions.

7,000 foreigners are The French authorities have acknowledged the intelligence
failings that led to this three-day spree of horror.

in As a committee, we are acutely aware that international cooperation on
security and intelligence is all the more necessary to curb the risk of future
attacks across Europe.

Indeed, I attended an international conference in Washington DC in September, on
behalf of the committee, which explored how we can strengthen security and
intelligence-sharing on both sides of the Atlantic.

The ongoing Syrian conflict and the rise of Islamic State there and in
neighbouring Iraq, has heralded the phenomenon of the foreign fighter, which
probably constitutes the biggest security issue facing the Union.

It is estimated that of the 7,000 foreign fighters in Syria, approximately 30
are of Irish origin. While these are sensitive potential threat posed by these
individuals, particularly when they return home. New laws are afoot at European
level to crack down on these foreign fighters and any moves to halt their
movements are to be welcomed.

Ireland has also joined a group of nine like-minded member states, which aims to
tackle the spread of foreign fighters by enhancing cooperation across the EU and
with other countries such as the United States.

coopera-The committee hosted a meeting on Monday last with EU Foreign Affairs
Chief Federica Mogherini.

fighting It was an opportunity for us to feed our opinions and perspectives into
how the EU can best respond to the terrorist threat.

Syria Ms Mogherini told us that the idea of 'big states' and 'small states' is
antiquated and she was keen to push the idea of a country like Ireland being
'big' in particular areas.

Our enviable track record in the fields of humanitarian aid, conflict resolution
and UN peacekeeping means that we can and do punch above our weight in these
important areas of foreign and security policy.

So I firmly believe that Ireland, in standing steadfastly with our friends in
France, can make a meaningful contribution to curbing terrorism.

Indeed, a human rights-based approach to foreign policy is indispensable to
halting the spread of radical Islamist terrorism in the longer term.

7,000 foreigners are fighting in Syria

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: READY ... French special forces prepare to move in

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                                January 18, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

COPS WON'T RULE OUT NEW ATTACKS;
EU terror crackdown continues but police warn threat remains

BYLINE: Tony Allen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 506 words


THE European Union's law enforcement agency said yesterday that the UK public
can be reassured by increased security measures on the streets - but admitted a
terrorist attack cannot be ruled out.

In Belgium, five people were charged on Friday with "participating in the
activities of a terrorist group" following a series of raids that began on
Thursday evening and left two suspects dead.

Guns, munitions and explosives, as well as police uniforms and a large amount of
money, were all seized by police during the operation.

Security has been tightened in several countries after last week's attacks in
Paris left 17 people dead.

MILITANTS

There are increased concerns about the return of young Europeans who have gone
to fight with Middle East militants.

Rob Wainwright, director of Europol, said: "Stopping everything is very
difficult, containing the threat fully is very difficult, but I'm sure we will
prevail, as we have prevailed against other forms of terrorism in the past."

Asked whether he was saying there was no guarantee attacks such as those in
Paris could be stopped, he said: "No, there can't be, otherwise what happened in
Paris wouldn't have happened. I think there is a realisation across the police
and security community in Europe.

"But at the same time we have a very strong determination to maximise our
capability to keep our citizens safe."

He said the scale of the problem had increased over the last 10 years. The
terrorists no longer had a coherent, identifiable command and control structure
such as in the past.

"But over those 10 years, the sophistication of the police response has also
increased." Mr Wainwright has said that at least 2,500 and possibly up to 5,000
people have travelled from Europe to conflicts in Syria and Iraq and might have
been radicalised.

His comments came after Prime Minister David Cameron and US President Barack
Obama held talks in Washington on how to tackle the terrorist threat.

Mr Cameron pushed for tougher requirements for internet firms to alert
authorities to suspicious online exchanges, ban encrypted communications and
store data.

MURDER

A report last year into the murder of Fusilier Lee Rigby concluded that Facebook
failed to pass on information that could have prevented his death.

The American firm had previously shut down accounts belonging to one of the
killers, Michael Adebowale, because he had discussed terrorism - but did not
raise concerns with the security services.

The two leaders agreed to establish a new joint group to exchange information
and expertise on countering the rise of violent extremism.

Asked how big the encrypted communication problem was, Mr Wainwright said:
"We've been engaged at Europol in combating various forms of cyber-crime online
for the last two years or more. It's clear that the internet is becoming of
increasing utility to criminal networks.

"The nature of encrypted communication makes it more difficult for police to
intercept this communication online than to intercept telephone communication in
the real world."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JIHADIS: Redouane Hagaoui and Tarik Jadaoun were killed during a gun
battle with police in Belgium. Inset, police on streets in Brussels and Paris

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BSL


                           Copyright 2015 Sunday Life
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                January 18, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Convicted terror leader with link to paris who we cannot Deport Europe on high
alert for further terror attacks;
Exclusive: Al-Qaeda fundraiser from Leicester, connected to the sieges in
France, uses Human Rights Act to stay in Britain Meanwhile, former MI5 boss
tells the Telegraph that laws to intercept terrorist communications are not 'fit
for purpose'

BYLINE: ROBERT MENDICK; TIM ROSS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1596 words


A CONVICTED al-Qaeda terror fundraiser with links to the Paris attacks is
residing in the UK after using the Human Rights Act to prevent his deportation
back to his native Algeria, The Sunday Telegraph can disclose.

Baghdad Meziane, who was jailed for 11 years in 2003 for running a terror
support network, has successfully staved off Home Office attempts to deport him
- despite the Government's repeated insistence that he constitutes "a danger to
the community of the United Kingdom".

Meziane was a close associate of Djamel Beghal, a convicted terrorist who
mentored two of the Paris attackers while they were in jail together. The pair
lived close to each other in Leicester and Meziane, 49, once supplied Beghal
with a false passport allowing him to travel to an al-Qaeda training camp in
Afghanistan.

The Home Office has attempted to remove Meziane, a father of two children born
in the UK, for almost six years following his release from jail in 2009.

However, it has been thwarted by Meziane's claim that his deportation would
breach his human right to a family life and that he might face torture if sent
home.

There is now a growing row over whether Britain's security and intelligence
agencies have sufficient powers to tackle the terrorist threat.

In a rare intervention, Lord Evans of Weardale, the former head of MI5, today
warns that Britain's anti-terror laws are "no longer fit for purpose", as it is
becoming easier for jihadists plotting attacks to evade the intelligence
services and the police.

Writing in The Sunday Telegraph, he says it is now "much harder" than a decade
ago for the security services to find out "what terrorists or criminals are
saying among themselves" because they are discussing plots on the internet.

Lord Evans says new laws are vital to give intelligence agencies an "accountable
and proportionate" ability to monitor more effectively services including
Facebook, WhatsApp and Snapchat.

Parliament's secret intelligence watchdog said plans for a sweeping overhaul of
the laws underpinning the operations of MI5, MI6 and GCHQ would be announced
within weeks.

The blueprint, to be published by the Intelligence and Security Committee, will
set out "very radical" reforms to the law to help security services keep pace
with the "tremendous changes in technology" that are allowing terrorists to
evade detection online.

Sir Malcolm Rifkind, the committee's chairman, told The Sunday Telegraph that
intelligence agencies should be given updated powers to access suspects' mobile
phone records, emails and internet messages, when authorised by a senior Cabinet
minister.

"The biggest threat has to be a potential terrorist attack," he said, adding:
"You simply cannot say that some comparable target in London, Rome, Berlin or
Madrid will not be attempted." The developments will widen the Coalition split
between David Cameron and Nick Clegg over the need for new laws to fight
terrorism.

Mr Cameron, in a US television interview on CBS's Face the Nation, branded
Islamist terrorism a "poisonous death cult" and admitted the West faced a "huge
struggle" with a group of people who were "challenging our way of life".

Britain was put on heightened alert following the attacks in Paris and an armed
police raid in Belgium last week in which two terrorists were killed.

Security is being stepped up across Britain for police officers, who have been
warned they may be targeted by terrorist gunmen, and in Jewish areas, where
patrols have been increased at schools and synagogues.

Chief constables are considering issuing more officers with Tazer stun guns
after the threat level against the police was raised to severe, the highest
ever.

The disclosure that Meziane, a convicted terror fundraiser, has managed to stay
in the UK prompted furious condemnation last night.

A Home Office spokesman confirmed Meziane remained in the country but would give
no further details. The spokesman said the Home Office would not comment on
individual cases. A Home Office source insisted: "We are in the process of
removing Meziane."

Last night, Chris Grayling, the Justice Secretary, said the case highlighted the
need to scrap the Human Rights Act.

Mr Grayling said: "It's a nonsense that people who are a threat to our society
are able to use their human rights to avoid being sent back to their home
country when it is clear they have no regard for the human rights of our
citizens. That's why it's time to scrap Labour's Human Rights Act, and put in
place a completely new approach to human rights laws which means that this kind
of thing can be stopped. Only the Conservatives would do that."

Prof Anthony Glees, director of the Centre for Security and Intelligence Studies
at Buckingham University, said: "It is extraordinary that this person should be
in the UK and a serious threat to our national security given what we know about
the way the Paris attacks on Charlie Hebdo were organised.

"The proper definition of human rights legislation is the right to be free from
terrorists and the right to go about our normal business without fear of being
attacked. It is simply unacceptable that this is being done in the name of the
European Convention on Human Rights."

Meziane had close links to Beghal, who converted Amedy Coulibaly, the killer of
four hostages in a kosher supermarket as well as a police woman, to radical
Islamism while in jail. He also heavily influenced Chérif Kouachi, one of the
two brothers who slaughtered Charlie Hebdo staff.

Beghal had initially been imprisoned in France over a plot to blow up the US
embassy in Paris that was foiled after he was arrested at Dubai airport in
September 2001. Under questioning - he claims he was tortured - he confessed to
the plot, leading to the arrest of Meziane and another Algerian living in
Leicester, Brahim Benmerzouga.

Both Meziane and Benmerzouga were jailed in the UK for 11 years in 2003 for
funding terrorism and possession of false passports. They were released into
probation hostels and Benmerzouga was subsequently deported to Algeria a year
later but Meziane has so far successfully fought off attempts to remove him. The
case will have cost the British taxpayer tens of thousands of pounds in court
costs to date, while it is not clear if Meziane has received legal aid.

A Home Office spokesman said the Government would continue to press for the
deportation of terror suspects. The spokesman said last night: "Deportation with
assurances enables us to remove people from the UK, in line with our existing
international obligations, even when there are substantial grounds to believe
they face a real risk of treatment contravening their human rights in their home
country.

"We have already removed nine individuals under our Deportation With Assurances
agreement with Algeria. However, we do not routinely comment on individual
cases."

Writing in today's Sunday Telegraph, Lord Evans says: "The ability of the police
and security agencies to do this important work of protecting our society and
its vulnerable people is under threat from changing technology... They can only
do this if they have the tools to do so and the tools at their disposal are no
longer fit for purpose."

It emerged yesterday that Saïd Kouachi, one of the brothers who massacred
journalists at Charlie Hebdo, had been secretly buried in a grave in the eastern
city of Reims on Friday night - after dark and under tight police security.

French police are investigating whether there may have been a "fourth shooter"
involved in the attacks and who may be one of 12 suspects in custody.

The Kouachi brothers, along with Coulibaly, were killed in the 72-hour rampage,
but DNA found on a gun used in the kosher supermarket attack by Coulibaly, and
in the shooting of a jogger two days earlier, belongs to none of the trio.

The French government deployed 10,000 troops around the country last week in the
aftermath of the Paris attacks, which left 17 people dead.

The fears for security in the UK were further fuelled by an admission by
Europol, the European Union's law enforcement agency, that a terrorist strike in
Britain , similar to the Paris attack, could not be ruled out.

Rob Wainwright, director of Europol, said: "Stopping everything is very
difficult, containing the threat fully is very difficult."

Europol estimates that as many as 5,000 people have travelled from Europe to
Iraq and Syria and may have been radicalised.

Security measures are being increased elsewhere in Europe. Hundreds of troops
were being deployed across Belgium to patrol the streets after security forces
broke up a suspected Islamist terrorist cell they believed was planning to kill
police officers.

Up to 300 soldiers will be deployed in the capital, Brussels, and the northern
city of Anvers, which has a large Jewish population.

Seven churches in Niger were yesterday torched by Islamists protesting at the
publication of the souvenir edition of Charlie Hebdo, amid growing protests from
Muslims around the world.

On Thursday, John Kerry, the US secretary of state, will fly to London for a
major summit of the international coalition against Islamic State of Iraq and
the Levant (Isil).

Government sources have disclosed that training courses run by British military
experts are expected to begin by the end of March to equip moderate Syrian
opposition forces to defeat Isil.

The Ministry of Defence is also drawing up plans to deepen Britain's involvement
in the fight against Boko Haram Islamists in Nigeria, with up to 70 more
military training specialists expected to be sent for 10 weeks to prepare the
Nigerian armed forces for battle.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Baghdad Meziane, left, was jailed for 11 years, and has fought
extradition to Algeria. Above, the Paris siegeJonathan Evans, the former
director-general of MI5

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Western Morning News

                            January 18, 2015 Sunday

Three freed, nine quizzed over Paris terror attacks

BYLINE: by WMN REPORTERS

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 553  words


French police have released three of the 12 suspects arrested in an anti-terror
sweep following the attacks in Paris by Islamic extremists that killed 17 people
and put Europe on high alert.

Paris prosecutor spokesman Denis Fauriat said nine other suspects detained on
Friday will have questioning prolonged by 48 hours, a step allowed under
France's tough anti-terror laws.

Police in France, Germany and Belgium have arrested dozens of suspects in recent
days as part of the anti-terror sweep sparked by the bloody spree in and around
Paris, in which brothers Said and Cherif Kouachi and their friend Amedy
Coulibaly killed 17 people at the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo, a kosher
grocery and elsewhere.

Fallout from the attacks has spread around the world.

Demonstrations in support of the murdered Charlie Hebdo journalists have been
held in countries from the United States to Brazil, and violent protests against
the magazine's depictions of the Prophet Muhammad have taken place in Niger,
Pakistan and Algeria.

French, German, Belgian and Irish police rounded up dozens of suspects last week
as anxiety spread across Europe and authorities rushed to thwart further
attacks.

Belgian police launched a vast anti-terrorism sweep in and around Brussels and
the eastern industrial city of Verviers on Thursday, which left two suspects
dead. Police say the suspects were within hours of implementing a plan to kill
police.

On Saturday, soldiers fanned out to guard possible terror targets in Belgium
while police in Greece detained at least two suspects as part of the widening
counter-terrorism dragnet across the continent.

Authorities say there was no apparent link between the foiled plots in Belgium
and the terror attacks in Paris.

President Francois Hollande said France is "waging war" on terrorism, and it
shows on the streets of Paris and elsewhere, where 122,000 police and well-armed
troops have been deployed to protect the country.

Meanwhile, Italy says it has expelled nine suspected jihadis since late December
and is vowing more expulsions in a heightened terrorism crackdown.

Interior minister Angelino Alfano said the expelled include five Tunisians and
citizens from Turkey, Egypt, Morocco and Pakistan. The expulsions to their
countries of origin began before the terror attack in Paris.

Mr Alfano said the nine long-held residency permits and included people who
supported, and recruited members for, the Islamic State group and who
"radicalised themselves on the web".

In addition, Italy has identified 59 people who have travelled from Italy to
Syria to fight, including five Italian citizens and two with dual-  citizenship.

Mr Alfano said Italy has put "far more than 100" persons suspected of jihadi
activities under intense scrutiny.

In France, one of the terrorists behind last week's attacks in Paris was given a
secret burial as authorities sought to head off glorification of terrorism and
civil unrest. Said Kouachi, one of the gunmen was quietly buried in Reims, a
town famous for its champagne.

After an initial refusal to provide a burial place for Kouachi, the mayor of
Reims, Arnaud Robinet, said he was forced to backtrack. He said the government
had insisted he allow the elder brother to be buried in Reims because according
to French law, residents of a town have the right to be buried there.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Wiltshire Times

                            January 18, 2015 Sunday

Alison Phillips - We should admire French response to terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 448 words


The response of the French people to the terrorist attacks which hit their
capital last week was impressive and amazing.

It is beyond most of us to understand what led Muslim extremists to murder 17
people: journalists, including the editor, at the offices of the Charlie Hebdo
satirical magazine, some of the policemen who had been on guard outside, a
policewoman simply doing her job elsewhere and, the next day, take hostages and
kill four Jewish men in a supermarket. The attacks have been condemned by Muslim
religious leaders across France and worldwide.

What were the terrorists expecting - that ordinary people in France and other
countries would praise them? That they would turn on their neighbours of
different religions and murder them, too? Yes, that has happened in some
European countries in the not-too-recent past - but not this time.

The reaction of the French was instead to turn out en masse, immediately, first
to mourn the victims. Then on Sunday they marched through Paris and other French
cities, over three-and-a-half million strong, to grieve for those killed and
condemn the attacks and the stupid, vicious people who perpetrated them.

Their response shows just how different the French are to us, how emotional a
people they are and how strong the nationalism, and republicanism, of that
country is.

In Britain we like to think we are tolerant of other cultures, societies and
religions. We're clearly not as good at showing it.

The last time there was a major terrorist attack by 'radicalised' young Muslims
in this country, when 52 people died after suicide bombers targeted London's
tube and bus network in 2005, we didn't take to the streets in that sort of mass
protest against violence.

Maybe it's that, with the passage of time, ordinary French people are more
prepared to stand up and be counted as being against extremism, because
terrorist attacks in the name of religion keep happening, worldwide.

I was impressed that French President Francois Hollande's speeches to his
shocked nation, after condemning the violence and paying tribute to the dead,
focused on stressing that France would not tolerate attempts to divide its
people, saying: "We need to show that we are a united country. We have to be
firm, we have to be strong."

Both Jewish and Muslim communities in France are worried about the future,
fearing that there will be either more terrorist attacks or misguided reprisals.
I expect minority communities in this country, too, are fearful.

It would be good to think they could rely on us all to speak out against
extremism, and support the right to free speech which is the mark of a truly
civilised nation. Je suis une journaliste. Je suis Charlie.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 19, 2015 Monday

Russian TV weekly highlights: "war" in Ukraine; Paris terror attacks

LENGTH: 994 words


Two themes dominated the weekly news roundups on the main Russian television
channels on 18 January: the escalation of fighting in eastern Ukraine and the
terrorist attacks in Paris.

Kiev "unleashing" new war

Heavy fighting which resumed in eastern Ukraine in the past few days was
presented by official television channel Rossiya 1 as "Kiev unleashing a big new
war in Donbass".

Dmitriy Kiselev, presenter of the "Vesti Nedeli" programme on Rossiya 1, accused
Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko of "using" the Minsk cease-fire agreement
"to regroup troops, to bring in more heavy weapons and to take revenge for the
defeat the punitive forces [i.e. Ukrainian forces] suffered in August".

Kiselev described Ukraine's actions as "perfidy". By contrast Russia, he said,
expressed deep concern and, in his letter to Poroshenko, President Putin
proposed a "new plan" for both sides to adopt a cease-fire and withdraw heavy
weapons.

"Regrettably, the Ukrainian side has turned down the proposed plan. Moreover, it
has resumed military actions," Kiselev observed, citing the Kremlin.

The Ukrainian president was portrayed as an irresponsible sabre-rattler.
Poroshenko was shown telling a rally in Kiev: "We shall have Donbass back."

According to Kiselev, "this means war" and Poroshenko will have to bear
"responsibility for its consequences".

Freedom must have "bounds"

Like most people around the world, people in Russia are mourning the Charlie
Hebdo journalists killed by Islamic terrorists in Paris last week. "There can be
no justification for violence against journalists, let alone murder," Kiselev
said on Rossiya 1.

At the same time, he continued, the Paris tragedy shows that freedom of speech
must have its "bounds". Freedom of speech is not a synonym for an "unlimited
right to insult".

"I dread to think", Kiselev added, "what would have happened to any French
cartoonist if he had dared ridicule the Holocaust or gays."

"In other words, bounds are necessary. Freedom doesn't mean lawlessness," he
concluded.

"War of the worlds" in Europe

Irada Zeynalova, presenter of the "Voskresnoye Vremya" programme on
state-controlled Channel One, described the current situation in Europe as a
"war of the worlds".

"It is already evident that this is a war of the worlds. Moreover, it is a
confrontation between those who practise Islam and regard it as a religion of
peace and good, and those who also claim that they practise Islam but that they
must murder infidels," she said.

In actual fact, she continued, it is clear that "neither Islam nor the cartoons
are to blame". "On the one side, there are radicals who understand freedom of
creative expression in a radical way and, on the other, there are radicals who
did not understand the former in a radical way," Zeynalova explained.

"And both were citizens of the same country with its centuries-long traditions,
with its European values and respect for freedom, for the freedom of an
individual to express himself," she continued.

According to Zeynalova, "so far neither assimilation nor integration have
worked". But without these, she emphasized, those living by medieval laws,
irrespective of which God they are praying to, "will never understand why
something that was taught by Voltaire or Diderot is not just important but also
sacred."

Muslims in Europe "are here to stay"

Zeynalova agreed with those who believe that Islamic terrorism is reminiscent of
"medievalism". But it means that this medievalism is not just "on the threshold"
of Europe but is already "at home" in Europe, she said.

"Europeans live side by side with its representatives who are not only not
planning to leave but who would like to live according to their medieval laws
but with European passports and with European benefits," Zeynalova said.

In his report from Germany, a correspondent on "Itogovaya Programma" on
Gazprom-Media-owned NTV said the "decline of Christianity in Europe" had a role
to play.

A local imam in Berlin told NTV: "Go to a German church during Christian
holidays and you will see only old people there. But if you look at the faces of
my parishioners, you'll see that 80 per cent of them are aged between 17 and 40.
And what does this say? That Islam is here to stay."

In a report on Rossiya 1 a local imam in Paris told "Vesti Nedeli": "When they
say 'Je suis Charlie', they defend freedom. At the same time they limit our
freedom to practise Islam. Yes, we are practising Muslims but we are also
French. France should accept its citizens as they are."

"Je ne suis pas Charlie"

Russian commentators distanced themselves from the "Je suis Charlie" sentiment
that has swept the Western world and pointed out that not everyone, even in
France, agreed with it. And Channel One lamented the fact that the French in
their millions are now buying copies of a "third-rate magazine" as "souvenirs".

"I am not Charlie, but I am against killing journalists and, at the same time, I
am against publishing provocative cartoons," Dmitriy Kiselev said on Rossiya 1.

"Je ne suis pas Charlie," a man on a street in Paris told Rossiya 1. According
to him, "one man's freedom begins where another man's freedom ends". Charlie
Hebdo journalists do not understand the meaning of the word "freedom", he said,
adding that "they provoked murder and the Kouachi brothers carried out that
murder".

"'Je ne suis pas Charlie', but I am against terrorism," Yvan Blot, a former
adviser to President Jacques Chirac, told "Vesti Nedeli". He said he had
deliberately not attended the unity march in Paris in the wake of the terror
attacks. It was not a "march against tyranny", it was a "march for
permissiveness", he explained.

"Je ne suis pas Charlie," a man on a street in Paris told Channel One. "Why are
they doing this? At times, in its pursuit of freedom of speech and
self-expression, our society goes too far," he said.

And another Parisian said in the same report: "I used to be Charlie but not any
more."

Source: Sources as listed, in English 0001 gmt 19 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                      January 19, 2015 Monday 10:45 AM GMT

Francois Hollande gets a popularity boost;
His response to the terror attacks help French President become more popular

BYLINE: By Mike Price

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 107 words


Once seen as the most unpopular French leader in his country's modern history,
President Francois Hollande, is getting a major boost in popularity following
his response to the terror attacks that shook the nation.

A poll for Paris Match magazine asked, "'Do you approve or disapprove of the
actions of Francois Hollande as president?"

Mr Hollande's rating jumped an unprecedented 21 percentage points - from 19% in
December to 40% - after the three days of attacks that began January 7 and left
20 people dead, including three gunmen. Fifty-nine per cent still disapproved.

Approval of prime minister Manuel Valls rose to 61% in the same survey.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      January 19, 2015 Monday 09:42 AM GMT

Massive jump in Hollande popularity after Paris terror attacks

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 104 words


President Francois Hollande, once the most unpopular French leader in his
country's modern history, is getting a major boost in popularity following his
response to the terror attacks that shook the nation.

A poll for Paris Match magazine asked: "'Do you approve or disapprove of the
actions of Francois Hollande as president?"

Mr Hollande's rating jumped an unprecedented 21 percentage points - from 19% in
December to 40% - after the three days of attacks that began January 7 and left
20 people dead, including three gunmen. Some 59% still disapproved.

Approval of prime minister Manuel Valls rose to 61% in the same survey.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2015 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                            January 19, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

30 BRIT WOMEN PLOT TO ATTACK THE UK;
TERROR THREAT ACROSS EUROPE Recruiting jihadis online to fight here May pledges
more protection for Jews

BYLINE: BEN ROSSINGTON; DAVID COLLINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 712 words


A RADICAL squad of British women are urging wannabe Islamic State terrorists to
strike on our own streets.

The cell is using social media such as Twitter and Facebook to find recruits for
the jihad cause.

And instead of calling for fighters to join them to train in Syria, they want
them to cause devastation at home.

The International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation has been monitoring web
accounts of Brits who have gone to Syria.

It found 30 British women acting as IS recruiters or praising those behind
attacks such as the Charlie Hebdo slaughter in Paris.

ICSR expert Melanie Smith said yesterday: "British women tend to incite
[attacks], they say to people that can't move to the Islamic State: 'Why not
carry out something at home?'

"That's a common message; if you can't leave your family behind or afford to
move to Syria, then carry out something."

She told the Observer: "You can see women frustrated they can't fight. They
suggest to each other they could do something else."

BATTLEFIELD

Thought to be among the British women experts have been watching are twins Salma
and Zahra Halane, 16, of Manchester.

The pair ran away to follow their brother to Syria and are said to have married
IS fighters.

Ex-public schoolgirl Aqsa Mahmood, 20, of Glasgow, dropped out of university to
marry an IS fighter in the war-torn state. She wrote online: "If you cannot make
it to the battlefield, then bring the battlefield to yourself."

It came as Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg clashed with spy chiefs yesterday
over anti-terror laws.

Many spooks want powers to retain our texts, emails and web usage, as the
internet is increasingly used to plot terror.

Former M15 boss Jonathan Evans wrote in the Sunday Telegraph: "The ability of
security agencies to protect our society is under threat from changing
technology. We expect them to stop the attack taking place. They can only do
this if they have the tools.

"Increasing areas of digital communications are beyond the reach of law. It is
imperative the laws are brought up to date."

But Mr Clegg said the Lib Dems would not sanction a snoopers' charter. He told
the BBC: "It is a blanket approach to the retention of data of innocent people.
It is not a very British thing."

As fears built of a looming terror strike on the UK, Home Secretary Theresa May
pledged more police patrols in key Jewish areas, following an attack that killed
four people in a Jewish supermarket in Paris.

She told an event to remember the victims that it was a "chilling reminder" of
the recent rise in anti-Semitism, including in the UK, where Jews are "fearful."

Holding a sign that said Je Suis Juif - I am Jewish - she said more police would
be on patrol at synagogues and schools.

Around 269,000 people in the UK are Jewish, the Campaign Against Anti-Semitism
said.

It added last year had the most anti-Semitic attacks since records began 30
years ago. Mrs May said: "Without its Jews, Britain would not be Britain; just
as without its Muslims, Britain would not be Britain; without its Sikhs, Hindus,
Christians and other faiths, Britain would not be Britain."

Meanwhile, after an alleged terror plot against police was foiled in Belgium
last week, The Met said it was bolstering the number of firearms officers in
London. But it last night denied reports officers have been told to patrol in
pairs for safety.

A spokesman said: "No decision has been taken to end single patrolling. Instead,
senior officers across London have reviewed and will continue to review
procedures as part of our established risk assessment process."

More than two dozen suspects were arrested in European antiterror raids last
week amid fears of further atrocities.

Thirteen were held in Belgium and two in France after a firefight in east
Belgian city Verviers on Thursday. The suspects were allegedly within hours of
carrying out the plan to kill police.

In Ireland police arrested a suspected French-Algerian militant at Dublin
Airport as he tried to enter with a fake passport.

And Germany said it was watching 100 suspected Islamist terrorist cells feared
to be plotting fresh attacks. Meanwhile, it is expected an announcement that
Britain will double its drone spying on IS over Iraq will be made at an
anti-terror summit in London on Thursday.

ben.rossington@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: high alert Cops in North London Jewish community this weekendSUPPORT
May yesterdayAqsa Mahmood left uni and fled to SyriaZahra Halane is said to have
wed fighterZahra's sister Salma is allegedly on list

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                            January 19, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Hoping for good from terror attacks

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 286 words


I READ with interest about the service being held at St Nicholas Cathedral in
memory of those killed in the terrorist attacks in France and in solidarity with
all those affected.

I fear for our future, wondering where we have gone wrong, that has resulted in
people who were born and grew up here hating the system and presumably 'us' so
much that they are willing to kill and even die for their cause. In Europe we
failed to make new arrivals feel that they are welcome and can belong - and
things are getting worse, with the rising popularity of racist or nationalist
political parties.

Students and asylum seekers from other countries have come to my home, and all
too often it has been the only time they have ever been welcomed in this way.

I was a mentor for a Zimbabwean refugee, having responded to an appeal from the
North of England Refugee Service for people being willing to train as mentors
for refugees.

It was an eye opener learning about what it involves to leave a conflict
situation, then come up against other challenges and prejudice here. My hope and
prayer is that something good, of a permanent nature, can come out of the
attacks on Charlie Hebdo magazine and the kosher supermarket.

We need to find clarity on what kind of world we want our children to grow up in
- and then dare to bring about any changes in ourselves that are needed to
achieve creating that world. Prejudice, recrimination and holding on to things
for ourselves won't achieve that, perhaps getting to know our neighbours and
people from the different communities who live not so very far from us will.

It is always amazing how much richer life becomes by taking a risk and moving
out of our comfort zone.

BARBARA DOWN, Newcastle

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2015 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      January 19, 2015 Monday 2:23 PM GMT

Widow of 7/7 terror attack victim jailed for stealing £43k of son's compensation

BYLINE: Peter Henn

LENGTH: 425 words


THE widow of a 7/7 bombing victim has been jailed for stealing £43,000 from her
son's compensation.

PA·ALBANPIX·GETTY

Louise Gray has been jailed for stealing from her son's compensation fund

Louise Gray, 42, was jailed today for two years and eight months after pleading
guilty to stealing the money from her son, Adam, 20.

The unemployed mother-of-three, from Ipswich, spent her own £250,000
compensation on clothes, cars, an outdoor jacuzzi and seven chihuahuas.

Her husband, accountant Richard Gray, was one of the 52 people murdered in the
London bombings as he made his way to work on July 7 2005.

Gray admitted to stealing £43,000 of her son's £50,000 compensation at Ipswich
Crown Court last month, and she was sentenced today.

Two years after the attack, the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority awarded
£250,000 to her mother along with £50,000 for her son.

His sister was awarded £100,000 as she is four years younger than him and would
have felt her father's loss for longer.

PA

Louise Gray meeting the Queen after her husband was killed in the London
bombings

GETTY

The tube blown up in the 7/7 attacks in Aldgate

The children's money was placed in trust until their 18th birthdays, but Adam
gave his cash to his mother to look after when he turned 18.

He found out earlier this year that the bulk of the money had gone when he asked
her what had happened to it.

Mr Gray, who now lives in Epping, Essex, took civil action to try and recover
the cash and she was ordered by a county court judge in June to repay him
£43,790.

But he then decided to pursue criminal action against his mother to get her
prosecuted for theft.

Passing sentence, Judge David Goodin said: "The offence you have committed
against your son, the trust you betrayed - a second hammer blow following the
death of his father - is so serious it can only be met by a custodial sentence."

The judge added: "The theft of £43,000 is one thing.

The theft of £43,000 by a parent from a young adult's trust is quite another,
when that sum represented most - practically all - the compensation he received
for his father's tragic death.

"It's an act of wickedness almost beyond belief.

"He has lost not one parent, but two."

PA

Richard Gray was killed on the tube at Aldgate on his way to work

ALBANPIX

Louise Gray was jailed for two years for stealing £43,000 from a trust pot
Related articles 7/7 hero cop fights off two thieves in caravan raid The dark
day of 7/7 bombing: How the Daily Express reported it nine years ago Mum who
stole £43,000 from her son's 7/7 bombing compensation faces jail

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      January 19, 2015 Monday 1:53 PM GMT

'Walking time bombs': Mum of ex-jihadi warns lack of support could spark UK
terror attacks

BYLINE: Dion Dassanayake

LENGTH: 562 words


THE mother of a former jihadi said a lack of support for returning foreign
fighters has put the UK at risk of future terror attacks.

BBC

The mother of an ex-jihadi warned of a lack of support for returning foreign
fighters

The woman, known only as Linda, said those who had come back to Britain after
becoming disillusioned with extremism could become "walking time bombs".

The 45-year-old had traveled to the Syrian borders in 2014 to bring back her
radicalised son James back after he was allegedly groomed by fanatics.

However, she said at times she has been "scared in her own home" as her child
has been left traumatised and occasionally violent by his experiences.

The single mum claimed that despite repeated requests to British authorities her
son has not received any help to reintegrate into society.

Linda said: "It is quite worrying that there's all these young men returning
from these situations and I think that without the right provisions and right
care, we could be risking an incident like what happened in France."

Around 300 jihadists have returned to the UK and MI5 claim they pose a threat to
national security.

BBC

Linda went to the Syrian border to bring back her radicalised son James

The Government have a number of deradicalisation programmes in place but they
are not offered to all returning jihadists.

One of the these initiatives is the Channel programme which provides individual
support to people who are vulnerable to radicalisation.

Linda told BBC's Inside Out programme that this lack of support could turn
returning foreign fighters into "walking time bombs".

As a result, the single mother has had to act like a counsellor to her son as it
has been difficult for him to get "empathy" from anyone else.

She said: "It's been difficult for him to go through that experience and then
rejoin society. When he came back he had nightmares and he'd sometimes wake up
sweating and sort of reliving the traumas and feeling like he was still there.

"He would have sudden flashbacks in the daytime, so his mood would change very
suddenly.

"He was in a war zone where people were being killed, people were experiencing
horrific things. He himself got wounded.

"I can see that sometimes he is physically traumatised by things and I don't
know exactly what they are and I feel quite helpless. I think that he may have
post-traumatic stress disorder."

BBC

Linda warned returning foreign fighters without support could be walking time
bombs

Linda, who lives in north London, said her son suffered bullet wounds in Syria
and he is still not fully able to talk about what he witnessed.

However, she believes she has been able to de-radicalise and rehabilitate her
son.

She said: "He's coming out of the other side. He's not a terrorist. He doesn't
agree with terrorism whatsoever.

"I've spent a lot of time and effort with him to help him to heal but it worries
me that there are no provisions for other people and I know from my own
experience that this sort of thing can be difficult for parents."

Linda, who revealed herself on camera for the first time on the BBC show, said
she spoke out because society had been "ignoring the problem".

A spokesman for the Home Office said that it could not comment on individual
cases.

·  Inside Out London is broadcast on BBC One in the London region on tonight at
7:30pm. It will also be available on iPlayer for 28 days afterwards.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 19, 2015 Monday 7:02 PM GMT

EU appeals court ruling taking Hamas off its terror list;
Hamas was put on the EU terrorist list as part of broader measures to fight
terrorism in the wake of the 11 September attacks

BYLINE: Raf Casert

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 309 words


The European Union launched an appeal against last month's EU court ruling that
ordered the Palestinian group Hamas removed from its terror list for technical
reasons, the bloc's foreign policy chief said Monday.

Federica Mogherini said the council of ministers would challenge some of the
court's finding and consider future action to avoid similar annulments. At the
same time, the EU appeal suspended the effects of the EU court ruling over 17
December until a final decision is taken.

Hamas was put on the EU terrorist list as part of broader measures to fight
terrorism in the wake of the 11 September attacks and its funds were frozen.
Hamas has long contested the classification.

An EU high court said last month the reason for listing it was based too much on
media and Internet reports, and not enough on acts examined by competent
authorities.

Hamas won elections in 2006 and runs Gaza. The US and Israel list Hamas as a
terror organization because of its history of attacks aimed at civilians,
including suicide bombings inside buses, restaurants and other public places as
well as the thousands of rockets it has fired at residential neighborhoods in
Israel.

The Israeli foreign ministry welcomed the EU appeal, saying "the decision
reflects well the position that Hamas was and remains a terror organization."

READ MORE: Palestinians to become ICC member in AprilAnalysis: Hamas may drop
weapons for words

Mogherini said that the freezing of funds and the ability to put some
organizations on a terror list were essential to contain terror financing.

The December decision by the court came amid growing pressure from European
legislators to recognize a Palestinian state, after years of stalemate in peace
talks. There is also growing frustration in Europe with Israel's government
after the Gaza war in 2014.

AP

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 19, 2015 Monday 6:13 PM GMT

Paris attacks: Francois Hollande sees his popularity ratings double in wake of
strong French response to Charlie Hebdo killings;
President says the country and his own presidency had emerged stronger from the
recent terrorism 'ordeal', and that the attacks had reinforced the country's
'republican values'

BYLINE: John Lichfield

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 616 words


President François Hollande spoke today of relaunching his presidency after a
poll suggested his popularity had more than doubled since the terrorist attacks
in France.

The 21-point increase - from a catastrophic 19 per cent last month to a more
respectable 40 per cent - was the largest one-month boost ever recorded for a
French political leader, and may have no precedent in any democratic nation.

In comments to Le Monde, Mr Hollande said he thought the country and his own
presidency had emerged stronger from the recent terrorism "ordeal", and that the
attacks had reinforced the country's "republican values".

"The country has changed the way it regards my presidency," he said. "France has
been made stronger by this tragedy. My own belief and pride in the values of our
republic have been reinforced."

Anti-Charlie Hebdo protests around the world

But Mr Hollande acknowledged that the new more purposeful, united and defiant
mood of France - demonstrated by the four million people who turned out on
"Republican marches" nine days ago - could be fragile. Much would depend, he
said, on a series of decisions to be made this week on strengthening security.

New anti-terrorism measures will be announced after a weekly cabinet meeting on
Wednesday. The following day, the Education Minister, Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, is
expected to reveal a series of guidelines to reinforce patriotism, the teaching
of respect for all religions and France's traditions of free speech and
"secularity".

Ideas under discussion are said to include the regular singing by all pupils of
the national anthem, La Marseillaise, and more classes on civic and democratic
ideals. There might also be new classes on respect for, and understanding of,
religions - something the fiercely secular French education system has
traditionally resisted.

READ MORE: Britain First 'Christian Patrols' return to east LondonNetanyahu
warns of 'wave of Islamisation' sweeping EuropeAt least 10 killed in unrest over
Prophet Mohamed cover

Many Muslim pupils - by no means all - refused to respect a nationwide two
minutes' silence in schools following the Charlie Hebdo killings two weeks ago.
Teachers have reported that some teenagers from Muslim families have taken the
side of the killers.

Mr Hollande, who is widely considered to have responded faultlessly to the
attacks, was marooned at a calamitous 19 per cent approval rating in the last
Ifop-Fiducial poll in December. He catapulted to 40 per cent in the survey
published today, based on the opinions of over 1,000 people questioned on
Saturday.

His Prime Minister, Manuel Valls, also rose by 17 points to 61 per cent. "This
is an extremely rare event in the history of opinion polls everywhere," a
polling expert told reporters. "The only comparable case in France was the 19
points gained by President François Mitterrand over three months during the
[first] Iraq war in 1991."

READ MORE: Nearly half of French people oppose Mohammed cartoonsBritish Jews
'are scared to go to the shops'Security or privacy - do we have to choose?

In previous polls, over 80 per cent of French people had said that they approved
of Mr Hollande's response to the Charlie Hebdo massacre this month and the three
days of terrorist mayhem in Paris which killed 17 people. He was judged to have
struck the right balance of dignity, firmness and refusal to point the finger of
blame at Islam or France's Muslim population.

The Ifop (the French Institute of Public Opinion) boss, Frédéric Dabi, said
people had started to consider Mr Hollande a worthy president. "They are no
longer looking at him in the same way," Mr Dabi said, adding that economic
issues would ultimately decide Mr Holande's political fate.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            January 19, 2015 Monday

UN strongly condemns deadly terrorist attack on Mali peacekeepers

LENGTH: 625 words


January 17, 2015

United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has today strongly condemned a
terrorist attack on a UN base in the town of Kidal, which killed a Chadian
peacekeeper and wounded four others.

"These attacks will not alter the determination of the United Nations to support
the Malian people in its search for peace," said a statement released by the
Spokesman for Secretary-General following the latest in a series of armed
assaults against UN personnel and contractors in the Kidal and Gao Regions.
"This latest attack only highlights the urgency of reaching a political
settlement to end the conflict and enable the full restoration of State
authority across the entire Malian territory."



The Deputy Special Representative in Mali, Arnauld Akodjenou, echoed Mr. Ban's
sentiments, stressing that the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization
Mission in Mali ( MINUSMA ) would remain determined to fulfil its Security
Council mandate.

"Such violence against the UN peacekeeping forces is a serious crime and those
responsible will be brought to justice," he said. A press statement agreed upon
by the Members of the Security Council also underlined that attacks targeting
peacekeepers may constitute war crimes under international law.

MINUSMA's press release said the base was attacked shortly before 7.00 am, when
a suicide vehicle was detonated near a MINUSMA checkpoint about a kilometre
away, killing a peacekeeper and wounding another from the Chadian contingent.

A second vehicle then exploded at one of the base's entrances, while the camp
was simultaneously bombarded with at least eight rockets or mortars, two of
which landed inside the camp, causing significant damage.

The Mission said it would continue to monitor developments in close cooperation
with Malian security forces and Forces working under Operation Barkhane, adding
that it would support regional and local authorities in their response to the
attack, in line with its mandate to protect populations.

The Security Council Members' press statement reaffirmed the need to combat by
all means, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, threats to
international peace and security caused by terrorist acts, stressing that any
acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their
motivation, wherever, whenever and by whomsoever committed, calling on the
Government of Mali to swiftly investigate the attack and bring the perpetrators
to justice, stressing that those responsible for the attack should be held
accountable.

Council Members reminded States that they must ensure that measures taken to
combat terrorism comply with all their obligations under international law, in
particular international human rights, refugee and humanitarian law.

The full support of the Council for MINUSMA and the French forces supporting it
was reiterated in the Members' statement, which also urged the Secretary-General
to swiftly undertake appropriate steps to enhance the safety and security of
MINUSMA's personnel and to allow MINUSMA to implement its mandate in its
entirety and counter asymmetric threats the Mission is facing. In that regard,
Members called on Member States to enhance their support to MINUSMA in this
regard, including by providing technical expertise and logistical support
needed.

Reiterating their support for the Special Representative of the
Secretary-General in Mali and MINUSMA to assist the Malian authorities and the
Malian people in their efforts to bring lasting peace and stability to their
country, as mandated by the Security Council in resolution 2164 (2014), Council
Members also called on the Malian parties to reach a comprehensive and inclusive
peace agreement without delay to help restore security in Mali.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2015 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 19, 2015 Monday 7:42 PM GMT

'The kuffar went to our lands and killed our people and raped and pillaged':
Video rant of trainee lawyer at top firm blaming non-Muslims for Paris terror
attacks

BYLINE: JENNY AWFORD and STEPH COCKROFT FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1050 words



     ·    Aysh Chaudhry, 22, criticised 'apologetic' Muslims in online diatribe
     ·    Trainee lawyer claimed the West was to blame for the Paris terror
          attacks
     ·    He repeatedly referred to non-Muslims using the derogatory term kuffar
     ·    Clifford Chance trainee apologised saying he wanted to encourage
          debate
     ·    Law firm has refused to confirm whether he will be fired over the
          video
     ·    Critics say he has used 'language of terror' and firm's response is
          'weak'


A trainee lawyer at one of the world's biggest law firms has posted a rant
claiming the Paris terror attacks may not have happened if the West had not
'killed our people and pillaged our resources'.

Aysh Chaudhry, 22, from magic circle law firm Clifford Chance, criticised
Muslims for allowing their minds to be 'colonised' and claimed Islam was
'superior' to Western ideology.

In a 21-minute YouTube video posted two days after the kosher supermarket
massacre, the lawyer said freedom of speech should not be put on a pedestal 'as
though it is some godsend'.

Referring to non-Muslims insultingly as 'kuffar', he addressed the Paris
terrorist atrocities, which left 17 people dead, and said that any Muslims who
apologised were offering a 'weak' response.

Scroll down for video

In the online diatribe, where he speaks mostly in English with some Arabic, Mr
Chaudhry said: 'Brothers and sisters, we would not be here had it not been for
the fact that the kuffar had gone to our lands and killed our people and raped
and pillaged our resources.

'This, brothers and sisters, is what we need to understand. We need to move away
from this apologetic tone and have confidence in Islam because we are enslaved
otherwise.'

'We need to remove this Western cultural lens with which we are viewing and
responding to attacks on Islam from our eyes.

'Stop putting freedom on this pedestal. This is a value stemming from secular,
liberal beliefs. We don't need a value which stems from a bankrupt ideology.'

During the video - which was watched 700 times before being removed - he claimed
that freedom of speech is an ideal which does not exist in reality.

'You wouldn't walk around Germany denying the Holocaust,' he said.

'The ideal of freedom of speech doesn't exist in reality. But there seems to be
an absolute freedom to insult Muslims.

'The people being held out as Islamic personalities with an Islamic response are
not giving a correct Islamic response. You [Muslims] have to accept their
[Westerners'] freedom to insult you.

'That is what freedom of speech means [in the West]... I guess Muslims just need
to grow up, is the concept they want to put across.'

He calls freedom of speech a 'bankrupt ideology', adding: 'We are becoming
infatuated with the civilisation of the kuffar and their beliefs and their
values and indeed we have latched on to these.

'Now you know who you are if you are of those who state 'I will die to protect
your freedom and I believe in freedom of speech'.

'But understand that it is not the Islamic response to this issue. It represents
a defeatist mentality, brothers and sisters.

It is understood the trainee started at Clifford Chance six months ago and earns
£40,500 per year.

The 22-year-old from Walthamstow, east London has now offered a grovelling
apology claiming that he just wanted to encourage intellectual debate.

He said: 'I apologise for any offence caused by my video. I have a deep and
serious Islamic faith, I had no intention other than to encourage intellectual
debate and would never support or condone violence.'

Clifford Chance insisted today that the firm did not share the views of Mr
Chaudhry, who works in their mergers and acquisitions department.

But the firm refused to comment on whether he would be would lose his job or
face any disciplinary action.

A spokesman for the firm said: 'The views expressed in this video are personal
and not those of Clifford Chance.

'The firm is committed to establishing an inclusive culture where people with
diverse backgrounds and views work effectively together and feel confident to
develop their potential.

'We ask our people at all times to consider how their personal conduct and
actions may affect those around them, their professional reputation and that of
the firm.'

Mr Chaudhry's video was posted on January 11 from an account called 'Call of
Dawah', which describes itself on Facebook as a 'local Islamic youth group based
in east London'.

The video was set to 'private' three days later but the full video later
re-surfaced on YouTube on an account called 'Magic 2015'.

His LinkedIn page has been removed, but it said he gained a first-class honours
degree in law from the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) at London
University.

Before working at Clifford Chance, he interned at Slaughter & May, White & Case,
Freshfields, and BLP.

Speaking outside the family home in Walthamstow, east London, today, his father
Zahur Chaudhry said: 'The whole thing has been totally blown out of proportion.
It's a non-story.

'I won't pass comment, but if you read his statement that will tell you our
stance on it.

'He's working hard on a very big project for Clifford Chance, lots of long
hours, so he's not normally home until very late.'

But Sam Westrop, director of Stand For Peace, a Jewish-Muslim interfaith group
that tackles religious and political extremism in the UK, said Mr Chaudhry had
used 'the language of terror' and that Clifford Chance's response was 'weak'.

He told MailOnline: 'From our position - and for anyone involved in
counter-terror - this is a familiar type of rhetoric, directed at non-Muslims.
It is not just political ramblings.

'We saw it after the Woolwich murder, when Michael Adebolajo made similar
comments on camera about victimhood in foreign lands.

'This man might not be directly involved with terror but he is certainly using
the langauge of terror. I'm sure he will be someone that the police and security
services are going to look at very closely from now on.'

He added: 'That Clifford Chance has responded so weakly is deplorable. I'm sure
they would have no hesitation in taking immediate disciplinary action against
someone with neo-Nazi views, so I'm not sure why this is different.

'I don't believe any respectable company or organisation would hesistate in
taking immediate discplinary action against an employee who has made these
comments.'

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                      January 19, 2015 Monday 2:47 PM GMT

'Enhanced' police patrols around Stockport's Jewish and Muslim areas;
Officers to have high visibility presence to reassure residents after
international terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Alex Scapens

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 312 words


Police have 'enhanced' patrols around Stockport's Jewish and Muslim areas in the
wake of international terrorist attacks.

Officers have urged people to remain vigilant and are giving extra attention to
places in Gatley and Heald Green - including North Cheshire Jewish Primary
School, on St Ann's Road North.

High-visibility patrols will also focus on Cheadle Mosque, on Wilmslow Road
South, and the synagogue at Yeshurun Hebrew Congregation, on Coniston Road,
Gatley.

The matter has also been discussed with both Cheadle Mosque Association and the
Jewish group the Community Security Trust.

A police spokesman said: "We are carrying out enhanced patrols to reassure the
public, but communities should be reassured that there is no information to
suggest an attack in Greater Manchester is imminent.

"We would have patrols in the area anyway but we will be giving extra attention
as we would do with any area that may be targeted.

"There is nothing at the moment to say something could happen other than
heightened tensions because of what is going on internationally."

Officers will be making more regular visits to religious sites and this has been
scheduled into a 24-hour patrol plan for each day.

Concerns for the safety of Jewish people in Britain have increased following a
gun attack at a kosher supermarket in Paris that left four dead.

The gunman himself was also killed by armed police who were called to the
incident.

It followed another gun attack, also in Paris, that left 12 people dead at the
offices of magazine Charlie Hebdo at the hands of Muslim extremists.

The heightened fears prompted Home Secretary Theresa May to speak out.

She said: "I know that many Jewish people in this country are feeling vulnerable
and fearful.

"I never thought I would see the day when members of the Jewish community in the
United Kingdom would say they are fearful of remaining here."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 19, 2015 Monday 11:03 AM GMT

Cutting bobbies on the beat will make it harder to stop Al Qaeda-inspired
attacks, warns former anti-terror police chief

BYLINE: TOM MCTAGUE, DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 552 words



     ·    Peter Clarke said neighbourhood police crucial for gathering
          intelligence
     ·    Ex investigations chief said cutting police weakens fight against
          fanatics
     ·    Warning comes amid claims 34,000 police could be axed after the
          election


Cutting the number of bobbies on the beat will leave Britain more at risk of
al-Qaeda-inspired attacks, the UK's most experience counter-terror detective has
warned.

Peter Clarke, the former terror investigations chief, said police officers on
the street were crucial for gathering intelligence on extremists.

The warning comes amid claims up to 34,000 police jobs could be axed after the
election as a result of continuing spending cuts proposed by all three major
parties.

Mr Clarke said neighbourhood patrols were crucial for gathering information on
terror suspects and cutting them will weaken Britain's fight against fanatics.

He said ending such patrols would 'increase the risk the public face from
terrorism'.

The former counter terror chief, writing in the Times, said: 'Neighbourhood
police hold one end of the 'golden thread' that can take us from the streets of
Britain to wherever in the world terrorists are trained, equipped and
radicalised.

'Chief constables and police and crime commissioners have tough choices ahead of
them in deciding what to cut. Cutting the counter-terrorist policing thread
could be fraught with danger.'

The police are in negotiations with the Home Office over increasing the number
of counter-terrorism officers while discussions are also being held about how to
raise the number of firearms officers.

Policing has had 20 per cent budget cuts since 2010 with a loss of some 34,000
officers and staff and the Home Office grant is being cut by a further £299
million for 2015-16.

Mr Clarke's warning comes amid claims that police have been told to remove their
names from the electoral register.

Intelligence chiefs are worried that Islamist fanatics could try to copy the
atrocities in France earlier this month that cost 17 lives. Four Jewish people
and three police officers were among the dead.

Fears of similar carnage in the UK intensified on Thursday after commandos in
Belgium killed Islamic State fanatics who wanted to behead a policeman or a
judge.

The plot held chilling echoes of the murder of Fusilier Lee Rigby outside his
barracks in Woolwich, south-east London, in May 2013.

The guidance to Met officers was reported by The Sunday Times, which also
claimed that an additional 800 counter-terrorism police could be deployed on
Britain's streets.

In addition, the newspaper said Scotland Yard was in talks with the Home Office
about extra funding to fight the increased threat to Britain.

The Met would not comment on whether police had been told to remove their names
from the electoral register when contacted by MailOnline tonight.

However, a spokesman said earlier today: 'We do not discuss the details of our
security response.

'But actions taken already include security advice to officers and staff;
measures around police buildings; changing risk assessments that affect how we
deploy to certain incidents; (and) bolstering levels of specialist support,
including firearms officers.

'The MPS has not decided to implement a blanket response regarding levels of
crewing and patrolling in response to concerns about the risk of an attack on
officers.'

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 19, 2015 Monday 10:46 AM GMT

Paris locals report drop in visitors following terror attacks as 6,000 French
troops patrol streets and capital remains on 'attack alert'

BYLINE: JOHN HUTCHINSON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: TRAVEL NEWS

LENGTH: 604 words



     ·    Queues around the Eiffel Tower are a fraction of the length
     ·    Sightseers speak of how parents hold children back from landmarks
     ·    But tourists currently visiting say people should continue as normal


The French capital is still reeling from the Charlie Hebdo-related terror
attacks almost two weeks ago.

And, despite reassurances from the Paris tourist board, the city is quiet as
tourists stay away, according to local vendors.

'It's been so calm since the attacks. There's hardly anyone at all,' sandwich
seller Kamel Bougrab, based near the Eiffel Tower.

Tourism officials couldn't give figures of the number of sightseers in the
immediate aftermath of the attacks, but interviews with vendors indicated an
initial drop in visitors.

British student Eric Dale, on a group trip with his college, said one of his
classmates was kept back by her parents, who were fearful for her safety.

'My parents were nervous, but in the end they left the final decision up to me,'
he said.

An Eiffel Tower spokeswoman insisted that the attraction had recorded no drop in
visits so far, compared to the relatively slow month of January 2014.

But no official statistics have yet been compiled, and the situation could still
change, she said on condition of anonymity because of company policy.

Among the tourists that were still braving visits, many took comfort in the
extra security presence.

With 10,500 troops deployed across the country, including 6,000 in the Paris
region alone, the security operation put in motion after the attacks is the most
extensive on French soil in recent history.

Lucinda Bay, 22, from Australia, said she came to the French capital with her
sister despite initial fears.

'I'm a bit nervous, but I guess this can happen anywhere. I wouldn't want that
to stop us visiting this beautiful city,' she said.

Over in the Louvre, lines were shorter too.

'For me it's good because I didn't have to wait too long,' said Guatemalan Eric
Velasquez, in front of Leonardo da Vinci's Mona Lisa.

'I don't think tourists should stay away. I watched the response from the
government and it was very fast, very good. It feels safe,' he added.

The Louvre said that school visits to the Paris region, including museums, had
been suspended by the Education Ministry because the capital was on 'attack
alert' status since last week. The Louvre normally receives several hundred
schoolchildren a day, and their absence partly accounts for the thinner crowds.
Also, mid-January is often slow as festive tourists have often gone back home
following their New Year celebrations.

'This is a slow season anyway, so it's hard to distinguish what's causing the
dip, that (it's January) or the attacks,' a spokesperson for the Louvre said.

Among the measures following the terror raids was also an increase in police
presence around airports, Jewish schools and media offices.

Col. Benoit Brulon, an adviser to the Paris military governor, says the aim of
these patrols isn't just to secure high-risk facilities but to reassure the
public.

'I don't feel unsafe as the security measures are notched up,' said 65-year-old
Marine Dupont, visiting with her husband from the northern French city of Calais
along the English Channel.

'They're not going to commit a second attack straight away. On the contrary, I
think we're even safer right now than before.'

Yet the heavily-armed French police patrolling the streets also unsettled some,
especially those from countries where police aren't normally armed so visibly.

'Seeing huge machine gun rifles is quite scary,' said 20-year-old Australian
student Mimi George. 'But I suppose it does make you feel safer in the end.'

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 19, 2015 Monday 8:25 AM GMT

BBC 'insensitive' and 'very misguided' for airing police killer episode of
Silent Witness on day officers shot dead in Paris terror attack, viewers say

BYLINE: EMMA GLANFIELD FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 678 words



     ·    Fans hit out at BBC for screening Silent Witness episode after Paris
          attack
     ·    Episode - called 'Sniper's Nest' - showed man killing eight including
          police
     ·    Aired on the same day 12 people were shot dead in French terrorist
          attack
     ·    Fans blasted 'insensitive' and 'misguided' BBC for showing violent
          episode
     ·    BBC received at least 10 complaints but said 'storyline was very
          different'


The BBC has been criticised for airing an episode of Silent Witness in which a
sniper killed eight people including a police officer on the same day 12 people
were shot dead in a terror attack in France.

Last night's episode of the BBC One drama concluded with eight people being
shot, including a female detective, and aired just hours after news of the
targeted attack on Charlie Hebdo broke.

Some fans were angry, with some condemning the licence-funded corporation for
airing the violent episode in the wake of the tragic attack which saw two gunmen
storm the Paris offices of the French newspaper.

Scroll down for video

It was the second episode of Silent Witness to air this week, with the first
part of the BBC drama - which aired on Tuesday - showing a gunman kill three
people at a petrol station.

Today, it emerged that anti-terror police in France had swooped on a petrol
station in the northern part of the country after two men 'armed with
Kalashnikovs and rocket launchers' stormed the garage and robbed it.

While that episode aired before the events in Paris yesterday unfolded, viewers
took to Twitter last night to suggest the BBC was wrong for showing the second
part - called 'Sniper's Nest' - and claimed it should have been postponed.

Twelve people - including two police officers - were gunned down in Paris
yesterday after two armed gunmen stormed the offices of Charlie Hebdo - the
notoriously anti-Islamist satirical newspaper.

Using the #jesuischarlie hashtag - which was trending around the world on
Twitter last night carrying messages of support and solidarity with the French
victims - people blasted the BBC for showing the drama.

Dolly Belle said: 'Whoever at the @BBCOne who gave the green light for a
gunman-themed episode of #SilentWitness was very misguided. #jesuischarlie
(sic)'

Sally-Ann Burgon said: 'V disappointed in @BBCOne for choosing to show
#SilentWitness tonight in light of today's events #ParisShooting #CharlieHebdo
#JeSuisCharlie.'

Mark Smith added: 'Really think @BBC should have pulled #SilentWitness because
of #ParisShooting #JeSuisCharlie.'

Another Twitter user, writing under the name Angela, said: 'Somewhat surprised
@BBCOne screening #SilentWitness tonight; #JeSuisCharlie.'

And Geoff Betteridge said: 'Why are BBC running Silent Witness? Very
insensitive.'

Meanwhile, others refused to watch the BBC drama - which attracts about six
million viewers - out of respect for the Paris victims.

John Ashton wrote: 'Won't be watching part 2 of #silentwitness tonight. Doesn't
seem appropriate somehow. #JeSuisCharlie'

The BBC confirmed to MailOnline it had received at least 10 complaints over the
content of last night's episode but said: 'The background and storyline in
Silent Witness was very different to the tragic events in France'.

Those who sent messages to the BBC's Twitter account last night didn't receive a
reply.

Silent Witness stars actress Emilia Fox, 40, as pathologist Dr Nikki Alexander,
who she has portrayed in the drama since 2004.

Prior to the show being screened last night, the actress wrote on Twitter:
'Tonight's episode of #silentwitness on @BBCOne about to start. Hope you enjoy
conclusion! (sic)'

Following yesterday's attacks on Charlie Hebdo, in which two police officers and
a number of journalists were killed by gunmen, another police officer was shot
dead in northern France today.

The officer, who has not yet been named, died after being attacked just before
dawn in Montrouge, a suburb in the south of the French capital.

This afternoon, armed anti-terror police swooped on a wooded area in northern
France following reports of sightings of the two suspects - brothers Cherif and
Said Kouachi - of the Charlie Hebdo massacre.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Milton Keynes Citizen

                            January 19, 2015 Monday

Emergency meeting: Terror attacks in Paris "should not divide us"

BYLINE: Amanda Devlin

LENGTH: 358  words


An emergency meeting against racist rows provoked by the Paris shootings is
being backed by city MPs.

Mark Lancaster MP and Iain Stewart MP will join with the Milton Keynes Equality
Council on Friday to unite against violence after a Muslim woman was spat at on
a Bletchley street last week.

Mr Stewart said: "The tragic attacks we saw on our televisions goes to remind us
how much work we still have to do here at home.

"Any form of violence against any group in society is unacceptable and we will
be articulating this message with one voice on Friday".

The meeting has been called to help build community cohesion as Milton Keynes
Equality Council remains determined to ensure communities and residents of
Milton Keynes feel free to live, play, work, enjoy without the fear of hate
crime or discrimination.

Mr Lancaster said: "After the shocking events in Paris, it is right we come
together as a community and support each other.

"We can't allow this to divide us and I am delighted to be working with the MK
Equality Council in reassuring our faith groups and residents here in Milton
Keynes"

Navrita Atwal, chief executive of MKEC said: "Milton Keynes Equality Council has
called this meeting to hear the views of communities and how they are feeling.

"They will have an audience with the two MPs and lead agencies to ask questions
and clarify points.

"We want communities of Milton Keynes to feel that they are supported. Building
good community cohesion is important in order to restore confidence in
communities.

"We want them to know that lead agencies are working together to create a safer
city.

"This is also an opportunity for communities to tell us about any concerns they
may have post the Paris shootings. "I know communities have been concerned and
as a result of this we have called this meeting to hear their views and restore
confidence."

If you would like to join the multi-faith community engagement meeting, call
01908 606224/606828 or email chair@mkequalitycouncil.org.uk

It will be held on Friday at 6pm in the Milton Keynes Equality Council offices
(352 - 390 Silbury Court West  no. 3rd floor, meeting room 1, suite 388)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MPMC


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Oxford Mail

                            January 19, 2015 Monday

Yours Faithfully: Where is God amid such terrible deeds as terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 491 words


The Rev Tess Kuin Lawton, chaplain of Magdalen College School, says God's name
was taken in vain by the terrorists in France

IN THE the new year edition of the excellent BBC Radio 4 programme From Our Own
Correspondent, Lyse Doucet suggested that God was going to be one of the most
influential people in shaping the politics and events of the year ahead.

She could not have known how prophetic her words would turn out to be, when just
seven days later, France found itself reeling in the face of terrorist attacks
in Paris.

Last week, Tim Bradshaw showed how biblical history has always traced a
juxtaposition between the immanence of God and the depths of sin of which humans
are capable.

This week, I wonder with Lyse Doucet, where God is in the politics and events of
France?

Well, God is not getting a lot of good publicity, it must be said.

The French have been somewhat suspicious of God since the Revolution and are
happier saluting a flag than singing Zadok the Priest at a coronation.

That a group of terrorists could commit the atrocities they did in the name of
God reinforces the belief that religion is dangerous and the root of all evil.

It is a view which has been raised in debating chambers around this city for
some time.

My own response to this is that God's name was taken in vain by the terrorists
and that the blasphemy perpetrated is theirs.

It is the second commandment with good reason.

If we believe in this extraordinary, powerful God who created the heavens and
the Earth and shaped each one of us in our mother's womb, then this is a name we
do not take in vain.

For this reason, I flinch when I hear the name of God used as an everyday swear
word and I am deeply uncomfortable with the kind of provocative journalism which
defined Charlie Hebdo.

Yet there is more to this question of blasphemy and names within this story.
Names are what define us. We take such care when we choose the names of our
children: invoking grandparents or closest friends, celebrities or saints.

When Moses met God, he had the temerity to ask God's name. "I am" was the reply.

God just is. Creator of time and space; the ground of our being.

Later in the Old Testament God says to Isaiah, "I have called you by name, you
are mine."

Each one of us is precious, each one of us is known and cherished.

You might notice two secular examples of the importance of names in the midst of
the horror in Paris: the appalling fact that each journalist's name was called
out before they were executed and the way that people have identified themselves
since then as "Je suis Charlie" on Facebook.

Even today, we recognise the power of a name.

Charlie Hebdo knew it and revelled in pushing the boundaries.

The terrorists knew it and thought they could claim the name as well.

But the truth is that the name of God, the almighty, the merciful, is above all
names and is recognised not in blasphemy but in the acts of love and courage and
selflessness that occurred last week.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    RTE News

                      January 19, 2015 Monday 8:43 PM GMT

EU discusses response to terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 203 words



HIGHLIGHT: EU discusses anti-terror response


EU foreign ministers have discussed setting up a new network of European
security agents abroad as they seek a united response to the threat from
militant Islamists following the recent attacks in Paris.

Today's meeting aimed to lay the groundwork for an EU leaders' summit on 12-13
February.

That summit will cement the bloc's strategy to deal with young European Muslims
heading to Middle East war zones or returning radicalised from the region.

One idea is to place European security officials in EU overseas missions to
collect and share information on the terrorism threat.

"It is a matter of having people on the ground that can liaise at the same level
with security agents in the countries where we have delegations," EU foreign
policy chief Federica Mogherini said.

Priorities also include a crackdown on arms trafficking and support for police
in the Middle East and North Africa.

Other priorities are stopping EU citizens leaving to fight abroad and curbing
radical Islam on the internet to prevent them bringing violence back home.

In the next few days, interior ministers will consider a plan to withdraw the
travel documents of EU citizens looking to go to Syria or Iraq, or of those seen
as a threat in Europe.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


     Copyright 2015 RTE Commercial Enterprises Ltd / Radio Telefís Éireann
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 19, 2015 Monday 9:49 PM GMT

The Buenos Aires bomb, the Iranian allegations, and the accusations against
Cristina Kirchner;
Alberto Nisman, the 51-year-old prosecutor who had spent a decade investigating
Argentina's worst ever terrorist attack, has been found dead. But what is the
story of the bombings, and 20 years of investigation?

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1186 words


What happened in 1994?

In the centre of Buenos Aires, a Renault van packed with over 600lbs of
explosives was detonated on July 18 in front of the Argentine Israelite Mutual
Association, or AMIA - Asociación Mutual Israelita Argentina.

The building collapsed, killing 85 people and injuring over 300.

It was the worst terrorist attack in Argentina 's history, and a terrible blow
to South America's largest Jewish community. An estimated 300,000 Jewish people
live in Argentina - the sixth largest Jewish population in the world.

Why did people suspect Iran?

Two years before the AMIA bombing, the Islamic Jihad Organisation had claimed
responsibility for the bombing of the Israeli embassy in Buenos Aires, which
killed 29. The organisation is under the umbrella of Hizbollah, which receives
weapons and funding from Iran .

And in the world of intelligence there has been little question that Iran was
behind both attacks.

At the time, Tehran was furious over Buenos Aires' decision to cease all nuclear
cooperation with Iran in 1992 for fear that Iran's nuclear programme was not
limited to peaceful purposes. In 1994, Argentina terminated its nuclear
cooperation.

Iran was also carrying out a programme of targeted assassinations up until the
late 1990s, according to Christopher Dickey, writing in The Daily Beast.

He said that between 1987 and 1993, according to a French government memo
published in a very detailed study called Le Hizbollah Global, some 18 opponents
of the Tehran regime were murdered in Europe. The CIA estimated that between
1989 and 1996 the Hizbollah network carried out 200 serious attacks, costing
hundreds of lives.

However, Iran has always strongly denied being behind the attacks. And some US
officials have publicly questioned whether there was evidence for Iranian
involvement.

What did the government do?

When Nestor Kirchner - the late husband of the current president Cristina
Kirchner- took power, in 2003, no one had been charged with the bombings.

In 2005 he called the failure to bring anyone to justice "a national disgrace",
and he then appointed Alberto Nisman to head up an investigation.

Argentina in 2006 officially charged Hizbollah of carrying out the bombings, and
a year later published a list of six Iranian individuals wanted in connection
with the attacks - among them the former head of the Republican Guards, Ahmad
Vahidi, who became Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's defence minister, and Mohsen Rabbani,
the former cultural attache at the Iranian embassy in Argentina, who is
considered to be the mastermind of the attack.

What has happened since?

The current president, Ms Kirchner, took over La Casa Rosada - the Argentine
presidential palace - in 2007.

In 2009 Carlos Menem, who was president at the time of the attacks, was accused
of allegedly covering up what was termed the "Syrian connection". Mr Menem is
the son of Syrian immigrants. In March 2012 he was ordered to stand trial - but
no date was set.

Standing trial beside him would be senior figures in Argentina's intelligence
service - SIDE - accused of assisting the cover up of Iranian involvement, on Mr
Menem's orders.

But a year later, in 2013, Ms Kirchner announced that a joint Iranian-Argentine
inquiry was to be held - something which infuriated many, who saw it as
colluding with those who had carried out the bombings.

The "truth commission" will be made up of five independent judges, none of whom
will be from the two countries.

But an Israeli spokesman said the move was tantamount to "inviting a murderer to
investigate his own killings".

Mr Nisman was deeply worried by the creation of the panel.

Why was President Cristina Kirchner mentioned?

At the time of the 2013 creation of the "truth commission", Argentina was in
need of oil. Mr Nisman accused Ms Kirchner of cutting a deal with Iran to
guarantee oil supplies and prop up the flailing economy, in return for
favourable deals with Argentina's significant wheat crop.

Mr Nisman said on Wednesday that he had "significant" evidence, obtained through
wiretaps, of high-level conversations. He asked that the details be made public
- something which, hours after his death, the head of the security service
agreed to.

But despite his accusations, a former top Interpol official familiar with the
1994 bombing said on Friday that Mr Nisman's accusations didn't make sense given
what he said was Argentina's repeated and persistent efforts to resolve the
case.

Ronald Noble, who led Interpol from 2000 to 2014, said Argentine officials went
to unusual efforts to ensure that Interpol maintained its "red notices," or law
enforcement alerts, that aim to help police around the world catch and arrest
people wanted for crimes - like the six Iranians.

"I can say with 100 per cent certainty, not a scintilla of doubt, that foreign
minister [Héctor] Timerman and the Argentine government have been steadfast,
persistent and unwavering that the Interpol's red notices be issued, remain in
effect and not be suspend or removed," Mr Noble said.

The Argentine government and Ms Kirchner said on Friday the accusations were
"ridiculous", but have yet to comment on the accusations since his death.

What was Nisman planning on saying?

As well as Ms Kirchner and Mr Timerman, Mr Nisman had accused others of being
involved in the cover-up, including Andrés "the Crow" Larroque, a leader of the
youth group La Cámpora with Ms Kirchner's son Maximo, as well as radical
pro-government activists, Luis D'Elía and Fernando Esteche.

He had called for Ms Kirchner's assets to be frozen, and said that on Monday he
would provide detail as to his findings. But he had not told anyone what the
dossier contained, other than stating that he had uncovered "a scandal".

What happens now?

On Monday evening Oscar Parrilli, the head of the Secretariat of Intelligence
(SI) - who was appointed by Ms Kirchner only a few weeks ago - approved, on
presidential orders, the declassification of all information gathered by the
intelligence services in the AMIA bombing investigation.

Sergio Massa, a key contender for the presidential elections to be held this
autumn, said that "a blood stain had descended upon local institutions". He
called for extraordinary sessions in Congress so the Memorandum of Understanding
between Argentina and Iran - passed by both houses in 2013 - could finally be
repealed.

Victims of the bombings, plus Jewish groups and the Israeli foreign ministry,
have all said that they hope Mr Nisman's work can continue.

An investigation into his death has now been opened                      .
Prosecutors have called for calm, and to await the verdict. But on social media
many immediately - and without any evidence - accused the government of
orchestrating the suicide. Others, meanwhile, saw the hand of Iran in his death.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                      January 19, 2015 Monday 1:26 AM GMT

WILL.I.AM MISSED TERROR ATTACKS BY ONE DAY

SECTION: MUSIC

LENGTH: 96 words


BLACK EYED PEAS star will.i.am has credited a manager at YouTube.com with
inadvertently saving his life after he was almost caught up in the 2008
terrorist attack in Mumbai, India.

The rapper was booked to stay at the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel during a visit to
India for an event organised by the online video service but he was asked to
delay his trip by a day.

It meant he was fortunate to avoid being at the hotel when gunmen ran amok in
November, 2008, killing 164 people in a series of co-ordinated attacks.

He says, "YouTube saved my life. We were supposed to be in that hotel."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 20, 2015 Tuesday

Kyrgyz pundit alleges lslamic State plotting terrorist attacks in Uzbek east

LENGTH: 280 words


Text of report by privately-owned online news agency Kyrgyz Telegraph Agency
(KyrTAg)

Bishkek, 20 January: The Islamic State of Iraq and Levant [ISIS or ISIL] has
allocated 70m dollars to plot terrorist attacks in the Fergana Valley, which
lies on the territory of southern Kyrgyzstan and [eastern] Uzbekistan, Kadyr
Malikov, director of the analytical centre Religion, Law and Politics, has told
a news conference today.

The expert said that the ISIL has the combat unit named Mawarannahr, composed of
volunteers coming from Central Asia, in particular, from Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan,
Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.

He said that the ISIL leadership has paid its attention to Central Asia and has
allocated the Mawarannahr combat unit 70m dollars to plot terrorist attacks in
the Fergana Valley.

"This information is unconfirmed yet, however, we keep getting the signals.
According to data we have, the ISIL is going to destabilize the situation in
Uzbekistan through southern Kyrgyzstan, that means that Kyrgyzstan also falls
into the zone of jeopardy. Although the main target is Uzbekistan, the situation
might get destabilized in the [Kyrgyz] south too," he said.

Kadyr Malikov said that there are about 200 Kyrgyz nationals currently fighting
in ISIL ranks, however, according to unconfirmed information there are 500-600
of them.

"The flow of the volunteers is endless, and security services cannot stop it. To
prevent the volunteers from being sent from Kyrgyzstan, the authorities must
take preventive measures to educate population, in particular the young people,
and beef up security measures," the expert said.

Source: KyrTAg (www.kyrtag.kg), Bishkek, in Russian 0639 gmt 20 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 20, 2015 Tuesday

"Terrorist" attack kills one, injures two policemen in restive Iranian province

LENGTH: 128 words


A "terrorist" attack has killed one and wounded another two policemen in Iran's
restive south-eastern province of Sistan-Baluchestan, the local Law Enforcement
Forces commander told Fars news agency.

Brigadier-General Hoseyn Rahimi said gunmen opened fire on three officers who
had been dispatched to the province's Khash County to investigate a car crash on
20 January, following an emergency call.

The drive-by shooting occurred in the Muk-Abad area of Khash, he added.

Sistan-Baluchistan, which borders with both Afghanistan and Pakistan and is home
to a large Sunni minority, has been the scene of frequent clashes in recent
years between security forces and drug smugglers and Sunni militants.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 1928 gmt 20 Jan 15

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      January 20, 2015 Tuesday 2:52 PM GMT

Prosecutor who accused Argentina president of covering up terror attack found
dead

BYLINE: Dion Dassanayake

LENGTH: 605 words


A PROSECUTOR who accused Argentina's President of covering up a terror attack
was found dead just hours before he was due to testify about the claims.

AP

Cristina Kirchner had been accused by Alberto Nisman of a terror cover-up

Alberto Nisman was found dead with a gunshot wound to his head shortly before he
was due to present evidence in parliament against Cristina Kirchner.

Mr Nisman after a decade long investigation claimed Mrs Kirchner and several
government colleagues covered up Iran's alleged involvement in an attack that
left 85 dead.

The 51-year-old days before he died had reportedly told Argentine newspaper
Clarin that he "could be dead by the end of this" because of the allegations.

Tens of thousands of Argentines took to the streets yesterday evening to protest
Mr Nisman's death and call for justice.

AP

Alberto Nisman claimed the terror cover-up related to an attack that left 85
dead in 1994

At least 2,000 demonstrated outside the presidential residence in Buenos Aires
and chanted "murderer" and hit against the police barricades.

Mr Nisman's body was found on Sunday night in his apartment hours before he had
been due to testify yesterday at a congressional inquiry.

He had compiled a 300-page dossier about a bombing at the AMIA Jewish community
centre in Buenos Aires in 1994 that killed 85 people.

State prosecutor Viviana Fein said preliminary autopsy results suggested "there
was no third-person intervention in Nisman's death."

However, she added she "could not rule out a provoked suicide" whereby someone
forced or blackmailed Mr Nisman to kill himself.

She said: "According to the autopsy, he fired the .22 caliber".

Senior politicians said they had suspicions about the prosecutor's death.

AP

Thousands protested against Alberto Nisman's death and called for justice

Former Argentine Minister of Agriculture Julian Dominguez said: "We want to know
which mafiosi sector pushed the prosecutor to take this decision."

While congresswoman Cornelia Schmidt-Liermann said Mr Nisman had seemed
"confident" about the case and had no reason to commit suicide.

She said: "Everybody who had contact with him the last 24 hours says he was
confident" about his testimony.

"There is no indication, under any circumstances, that he killed himself."

The security ministry said a 22-calibre handgun and a single bullet casing were
found next to Mr Nisman's body at his flat in Buenos Aires.

The prosecutor had 10 federal police assigned to his protection because of
threats made against him.

Last week Mr Nisman had accused Mrs Kirchner and several of her government
colleagues of covering up Iran's alleged role in the 1994 terror attack.

AP

Protestors hold signs which read "Enough Cristina!" and "Thank you Nisman"

He claimed the Argentine president along with her foreign minister Hector
Timerman had "erased" Iran's role in return for favourable oil deals.

At the time he said: "The president and her foreign minister took the criminal
decision to fabricate Iran's innocence to sate Argentina's commercial, political
and geopolitical interests."

Mrs Kirchner published a statement on her Facebook page late on yesterday
telling people in Argentina not to believe "lies" about the case.

She said: "There is not just astonishment and question marks, but also a history
that is too long, too heavy, too difficult, and above all, very sordid."

In a statement on her website she also lamented Mr Nisman's death and said it
generated "stupor and questions."

She initially used the word "suicide" in connection with his death but later put
a question mark next to the word.

brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                            January 20, 2015 Tuesday

Terror attack poll boost for Hollande

BYLINE: Caroline Woollard

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 55 words


PARIS: President Francois Hollande has seen a spectacular revival in his dismal
popularity ratings as two major surveys showed French voters applauding his
handling of the country's most deadly Islamist attacks. The boost for Mr
Hollande and his government prevented the anti-immigrant National Front from
capitalising on the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HER


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 20, 2015 Tuesday 3:43 PM GMT

Bobby Jindal: Senior US politician says some Muslim immigrants are trying to
'colonise' European countries and set up no-go areas;
Louisiana Governor also says Muslim leaders must do more to condemn terror
attacks

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 545 words


A senior US politician tipped as a possible presidential candidate has weighed
into the controversy over alleged Muslim no-go areas in Europe claiming that
some minority communities are seeking to "colonise" the West.

In a speech in London, Bobby Jindal, the Republican Governor of Louisiana, said
in some European countries, certain immigrant communities lived outide the reach
of the law and opolice

"[Some immigrant communities are trying to] colonise Western countries, because
setting up your own enclave and demanding recognition of a no-go zone [is]
exactly that," he said during a speech at the Henry Jackson Society, right-wing
think tank. He said Muslim leaders must condemn people who carry out terror
attacks in the name of jihad as "murderers who are going to hell".

"I knew that by speaking the truth we were going to make people upset," he later
told CNN. "The huge issue, the big issue in non-assimilation is the fact that
you have people that want to come to our country but not adopt our values, not
adopt our language and in some cases want to set apart their own enclaves and
hold onto their own values."

The comments of Mr Jindal, 43, who is currently considering a run for the White
House, followed similar comments by presenters on the Fox News channel, among
them a now notorious claim that non-Muslims were not welcome in the city of
Birmingham and that "Muslim religious police" enforce faith-based laws.

Steven Emerson, an American author who often is asked about terror networks,
told Fox News that in Britain "there are actual cities like Birmingham that are
totally Muslim, where non-Muslims just simply don't go in".

Prime Minister David Cameron responded by calling Mr Emerson a "complete idiot".
Mr Emerson later apologised and said his comments were in error. Fox News also
issued apologies for broadcasting the comments, which were made following the
Charlie Hebdo attacks in France that left 17 people dead.

Mr Jindal, who served in the government of George W Bush, has been seeking to
promote himself as a social conservative and define his brand in what is
becoming an increasingly crowded field of early potential candidates for the
Republican nomination. He opposes abortion and gay marriage, and pushed for the
creation of a voucher program in Louisiana that uses tax dollars to pay for
children to attend religious schools.

Mr Jindal's parents came to the US from India, shortly before he was born. He
converted to Christianity from Hinduism and has been active in courting the
support of conservative Christians as he evaluates the prospect of a White House
run. Reports say his advisors consider the comments he made on his overseas trip
as truth-telling about the radical corners of Islam.

Such rhetoric may help his standing among evangelical pastors, who have sway
over many voters in early nominating states in the presidential race such as
Iowa and South Carolina, the Associated Press reported.

However, Democrats said Mr Jindal's comments were a mistake.

"It's no surprise that Bobby Jindal would go abroad and butcher the facts in an
effort to divide people; this is exactly what we've come to expect from Jindal
here at home," said Democratic National Committee spokeswoman Rebecca Chalif.
"Jindal is just embarrassing himself."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 20, 2015 Tuesday 2:10 PM GMT

Jewish school pupils describe being trained to hide under their desks and 'play
sleeping lions' in event of Paris-style terror attack;
'Sometimes it is scary because you're not really sure if it's real or not'

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 344 words


As ministers issued warnings about the "deeply troubling" rise of anti-semitism
in modern Britain, Jewish primary school pupils are being drilled on what to do
in the event of a terrorist attack.

Children aged 10 and 11 in north London described how they are being trained to
play "sleeping lions" when an alarm sounds, hiding under their desks in a
practice that is reminiscent of Second World War air raid protocols.

Theresa May, the Home Secretary, said yesterday at a meeting of the Board of
Deputies of British Jews that she "never thought [she'd] see the day" when
Jewish people would be "fearful" of staying in the UK.

Mr Miliband held a public "question time" in northwest London's Mill Hill, where
there is a sizeable Jewish population. He said: "There is a palpable sense of
anxiety in the community, that is deeply, deeply troubling."

Speaking this morning to the BBC's Today programme, one pupil in north London
said he was fully aware of the concerns around a repeat of the attacks that
killed 17 in France two weeks ago.

"Sometimes I'm very worried about the current situation because after happening
to Paris it could happen to England," he said. Charlie Hebdo: Mourning in Paris

Another explained the new protocols: "When the alarm goes off we do a thing
called sleeping lions. We all go under our desks or chairs and cover our heads
with our hands."

Their school already had a high wall, permanent security guard and 24-hour CCTV
before the drills were introduced, but its headteacher told Today he felt this
simply wasn't enough.

READ MORE: Hollande sees his popularity double following attacksAnalysis: A
continent on edgeBelgium's young Muslims are 'easy targets' for radicalisation

"Sometimes it is [scary] because you're not really sure if it's real or not,"
one boy said.

"You always feel like you have to pretend like it's a real situation and be as
silent as possible even though you probably know that there's no one there,"
said another. "It's still really important because you know that you are Jewish
and lots of people don't really respect that."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     January 20, 2015 Tuesday 11:29 AM GMT

Paris terror attacks: Four face charges over links to kosher supermarket gunman
Amedy Coulibaly;
Five others released without charge

BYLINE: Agency

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 261 words


Four men are facing preliminary charges on suspicion of links to the jihadist
gunman who carried out the terror attack on a kosher Paris supermarket in which
four people were killed.

The Paris prosecutor's office said the four, who would be the first to face
charges in the case, are suspected of providing logistical support to Amedy
Coulibaly.

Coulibaly shot a policewoman to death on the outskirts of Paris and then seized
hostages inside a kosher supermarket, killing four before he was killed by
police.

It is not clear whether the suspects were involved in plotting the attacks or
even aware of Coulibaly's plans.

Anti-Charlie Hebdo protests around the world

The Paris prosecutor's office said five others arrested in the investigation
were released today without charge.

The four men, all in their 20s, will appear before an investigating judge later
today. No other details were immediately available.

No one has been charged for direct involvement in the attacks which happened
between January 7-9 on satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo, the kosher supermarket
and police.

Twenty people were killed, including the three gunmen, who claimed allegiance to
al Qaida and the Islamic State (IS) group.

READ MORE: Hollande sees his popularity double following attacksAnalysis: A
continent on edgeBelgium's young Muslims are 'easy targets' for radicalisation

A Malian employee whose quick thinking saved lives at the kosher market will get
French citizenship today.

New York mayor Bill de Blasio also visited Paris today and laid a wreath of
flowers near the kosher supermarket.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      January 20, 2015 Tuesday 6:44 AM GMT

Terror attacks: EU foreign ministers push for data-sharing laws in Brussels amid
increased terror threat;
Foreign ministers meeting in Belgium have promised to share intelligence in the
face of a growing threat - but there is concern about the implications for
privacy

BYLINE: Charlotte McDonald-Gibson

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 944 words


European Union foreign ministers have vowed to boost intelligence cooperation
and push for controversial data-sharing legislation, as they gathered under the
guard of Belgian soldiers to forge a response to the wave of terror-related
attacks, foiled plots and arrests across Europe.

The meeting came days after Belgian authorities thwarted a plot by a terror cell
with links to Syria to massacre police officers in the street.

Two of the suspects were shot dead by police in Verviers in eastern Belgium on
Thursday night, just over a week after 17 people were killed in attacks by
suspected Islamists on the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo and a Jewish
supermarket in France.

The Belgian terror cell had links in France and Greece, while French, German and
Irish police also made terror-related arrests last week, putting EU governments
and citizens on high alert.

"The threat is not only the one we faced in Paris, but is also spreading in many
other parts of the world, starting from Muslim countries," said the EU's foreign
policy chief, Federica Mogherini.

In pictures: Counter-terrorism raid in Belgium

To tackle the fluid, cross-border nature of terror networks, European
governments are considering everything from tightening free movement between EU
nations, increasing surveillance and data sharing on the bloc's citizens, and
confiscating travel documents of citizens who travel to Syria to fight.

But they are facing calls for caution, with Amnesty International's expert on
counter-terrorism and human rights, Julia Hall, warning against any knee-jerk
reactions.

"Counter-terrorism measures must always contain strong human rights safeguards,
and must never be at the cost of human dignity," she told The Independent
yesterday. "This principle should be upheld in all counter-terrorism measures
and operations, especially in the immediate aftermath of a violent attack when
emotions and fear run high. We know all too well how much damage can be done
when rights protections are sacrificed wholesale."

After the meeting, Ms Mogherini said nations would increase intelligence
cooperation within the EU and with other nations including Turkey, Egypt and the
Gulf nations. The aim is to help governments better monitor the movements of
citizens who headed to Syria.

Security officials have been warning for years that thousands of European
Muslims taking up arms with Islamists in Syria could pose a threat back home,
and many of the suspects rounded up in Belgian had been to the Middle East to
fight with radical Islamists.

READ MORE: Hollande sees his popularity double following attacksAnalysis: A
continent on edgeBelgium's young Muslims are 'easy targets' for radicalisation

While the issue of confiscating passports of foreign fighters will fall to
justice and home affairs ministers, Ms Mogherini said the foreign ministers will
ask the European Parliament to look again at legislation which would force
airlines to share data of passengers entering the EU.

MEPs have blocked the "Passenger Name Records" legislation as they are concerned
about the data protection implications of letting the EU store information on
the bloc's 500 million citizens.

"It has been on the shelf for some time and I do believe this is an issue that
should be progressed," said Irish Foreign Minister, Charles Flanagan, adding
that they needed "a coordinated response for what is a real and serious threat".

Ms Mogherini also said the EU would station new security attachés in EU
delegations overseas, and would be working with Muslim nations on as yet
unspecified new counter-terrorism programmes.

Further potential measures within EU borders will be on the table next week when
Justice and Home Affairs ministers in the bloc meet. Later this week, US
Secretary of State John Kerry will chair talks in London to assess progress in
the military campaign against Isis.

All the talks will lay the groundwork for a summit of EU heads of government on
13 and 14 February which will be dedicated to battling the threat of extremism
in Europe by implementing measures which may prove controversial.

READ MORE: Britain First 'Christian Patrols' return to east LondonNetanyahu
warns of 'wave of Islamisation' sweeping EuropeAt least 10 killed in unrest over
Prophet Mohamed cover

Ms Hall from Amnesty raised particular concern about increased internet
surveillance and its impact on free speech, racial profiling via the passenger
name records and other data sharing, and the implications of removing
citizenship from an individual.

"There must be safeguards so that any person subjected to having her or his
citizenship revoked can challenge such a serious penalty," she said. "If a
person has only one nationality any such stripping could create a stateless
person, which is the most severe of penalties."

The head of EuroPol, Rob Wainwright, has estimated that between 3,000 and 5,000
Europeans are fighting alongside Islamist militia in Syria, with most coming
from France, Britain, Belgium and Germany. Belgium has already taken a number of
domestic measures after the raids last week, including legal measures to
confiscate identity cards of suspects and criminalising travelling overseas to
fight.

Soldiers were deployed on the streets of Belgian at the weekend for the first
time in 30 years, while authorities are also working to track down the alleged
mastermind of the plot to attack police.

He has been named in local media as Abdelhamid Abaaoud, a 27-year-old Belgian of
Moroccan extraction who travelled to Syria to fight last year. Greek police have
confirmed that they have arrested an individual with possible links to the
Belgian plot. Belgium has started proceedings to extradite him.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                      January 20, 2015 Tuesday 7:17 PM GMT

Special report: Security stepped up in Manchester's Jewish communities as terror
attack fears grow;
Extra police and private security patrols as leaders admit to growing tension
and more people thinking of leaving Britain

BYLINE: By Charlotte Dobson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1001 words


Security has been stepped up in Manchester's Jewish communities amid fears of a
Paris-style terrorist attack.

Police have increased patrols around schools, shops and synagogues in line with
a review of national security.

GMP insist there is no 'specific risk' to Jewish people in Greater Manchester
but are asking residents to be vigilant.

Extra patrols are being carried out in Salford, Bury and parts of north
Manchester - which together are home to the second biggest Jewish community in
the UK.

Jewish schools in the area, which are already protected by private security,
have strengthened security measures.

The Community Security Trust, a Jewish charity, has also upped the number
volunteers guarding synagogues and schools in the area.

Dave Rich, a CST spokesman, said:  "There is tension at the moment because of
the terrible things that happened in Paris.

"It has been extremely upsetting and caused a lot of worry among Jewish people.

"That's why we have extra patrols and security on Jewish buildings.

"The main reason is to reassure people who are concerned about their safety.

"We are not at a stage where there is an imminent attack. It's more of a general
threat assessment."

National figures from the CST, due to be released on February 5, are expected to
show a record total of anti-Semitic attacks and hate crimes in 2014.

Previous data revealed there were 52 anti-Semitic attacks across Greater
Manchester in July alone, mostly concentrated in Salford, Bury and Manchester.

Tensions surrounding the Gaza conflict last summer are said to have resurfaced
following the attack on a Jewish supermarket in Paris.

Raphi Bloom, who has organised rallies in Manchester against anti-Semitism,
said: "We in the Jewish community must remain vigilant but we cannot be cowed or
live our lives in fear.

"The Jewish community can remain proudly British and yet be Zionists as well.

"As Jews, we have always contributed greatly to the fabric of society in Britain
and we should not be punished for events that happen thousands of miles away in
Israel.

"The government must work with the police and local authorities on a zero
tolerance approach to those that practise and those that incite anti-Semitism.
We cannot think it will go away by ignoring it."

Mr Bloom has warned some Jewish people have started to considered leaving the UK
for Israel.

He added: "Some people today have asked, do we have a future for our children in
this country?

"We have a government that has zero tolerance towards anti-Semitism but now that
has to be filtered down onto the streets."

Home Secretary Theresa May has warned the UK must redouble its efforts to wipe
out anti-Semitism.

Mrs May said she never thought she'd see the day when members of the Jewish
community would be fearful of staying in the UK.

Rabbi Arnold Saunders, of the Higher Crumpsall and Higher Broughton Synagogue,
said people were frightened but urged everyone to stay calm.

Rabbi Saunders said: "There is a heightened sense of alarm, clearly. What
happened in Paris has shocked everyone and, yes, people are more concerned.

"Some people have started to question whether Jewish people have a future here.

"I don't want to exaggerate and make it seem like people have their bags packed.

"There's a long way to go before people resort to that. Most people want to stay
in this country."

 Dog patrols and extra guards at school

Many Jewish schools already employ private security guards. Nearly all have
tightened security measures since the attacks in Paris.

Bury and Whitefield Jewish Primary School has employed a second full-time guard
and introduced a dog patrol around the perimeter of the school.

Parents have also drawn up a new security rota to ensure children arrive and
leave school safely.

Elis Elfassy, office manager at the school, said: "Since the Paris attacks, some
of our parents have been very frightened about what's going on in the world.

"The security of the children is of the upmost importance to everyone."

King David High School is understood to have introduced more stringent security
measures for students.

 Everyone must be vigilant, urge police

The UK's threat level remains severe, which means a terrorist attack is highly
likely.

Assistant Chief Constable Garry Shewan said: "GMP like other forces nationally
has been reviewing security following recent events.

"There is no specific threat to Greater Manchester at this time but it is
important that we continue to monitor and assess the situation.

"We have reviewed our operational response in a number of areas and are working
with all communities to discuss any specific concerns they have.

"It is important for everyone to be vigilant and report any issues to local
officers or for any specific concerns about terrorist activity the
anti-terrorist hotline.

"This is a time when all communities need to come together as they have in the
past in Greater Manchester and show that together they are strong and able to
deal with any issues."

People can call the Anti-Terror Hotline on: 0800 789321.

 'History's oldest hatred is rearing its ugly head in a way that hasn't been
seen, arguably, in decades'

Ivan Lewis, MP for Bury South, said: "The community will have mixed feelings.

"I think they will be reassured by the fact that the authorities are taking this
very real threat to them seriously.

"However, there is understandably anxiety that history's oldest hatred is
rearing its ugly head in a way that hasn't been seen, arguably, in decades."

He said there is a 'collective sense of anxiety and insecurity' but Jewish
people will continue to 'hold their heads up high'.

"There's almost been a permanent and growing sense of anxiety in the community
since the summer," he said.

"Anti-semitism is a term which almost hides what it is. Anti-semitism is Jew
hatred and I think sometimes that's missed.

"It's not some second class form of racism. It's as bad as any other form of
racism - if we are serious about zero tolerance of racism, we have got to be
serious at every level of society about racist Jew hatred."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      January 20, 2015 Tuesday 4:38 PM GMT

New York City mayor Bill de Blasio lays a wreath at the kosher grocery store as
he pays tribute to victims of Paris terror attacks

BYLINE: COREY CHARLTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 340 words



     ·    New York mayor Bill de Blasio has visited the site of Paris terror
          attacks
     ·    He laid a wreath at the kosher store where four people were murdered
     ·    His office said he stands in 'solidarity' with France against
          anti-semitism


New York mayor Bill de Blasio has laid a wreath at the site of the Paris kosher
store terror attack and vowed to stand in solidarity with France against
'terrorism and anti-semitism'.

The mayor today visited the Hyper Cacher supermarket - alongside members of the
local Jewish community - as part of a brief overnight visit to the French
capital.

Hostages Yohan Cohen, Yoav Hattab, Francois-Michel Saada and Phillipe Braham
were murdered at the kosher bakery by gunman Amedy Coulibaly, who was
subsequently shot dead by police on January 9.

Scroll down for video

The mayor's office released a statement during his visit in which he promised to
support France.

It read: 'The mayor will stand in solidarity with our friends in Paris and
across France to send the clear message that together we will fight terrorism
and anti-semitism at every turn, and that crude attempts to intimidate free
expression will not succeed.'

His trip also includes a meeting with Paris mayor Anne Hidalgo, a wreath-laying
at the Charlie Hebdo offices, and a visit to the spot where police officer Ahmed
Merbat was shot and killed.

The visit by the mayor comes just days after US Secretary of State John Kerry's
belated trip to France in the wake of the terror sieges.

After a wave of domestic criticism that the US had not sent adequate
representation to France in the wake of the attacks, Kerry arrived late last
week to undertake what turned out to be an awkward show of contrition.

De Blasio, meanwhile, remains under pressure at home with tensions between City
Hall and New York police officers at their highest in decades.

The head of the NYPD's largest police union has said de Blasio has 'blood on his
hands' for the deaths of Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu, after they were gunned
down by a madman who was upset about alleged police brutality cases.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     January 20, 2015 Tuesday 12:57 PM GMT

New York City mayor Bill de Blasio lays a wreath at the kosher grocery store as
he pays tribute to victims of Paris terror attacks

BYLINE: COREY CHARLTON FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 348 words



     ·    New York mayor Bill de Blasio has visited the site of Paris terror
          attacks
     ·    He laid a wreath at the kosher store where four people were murdered
     ·    His office said he stands in 'solidarity' with France against
          anti-semitism


New York mayor Bill de Blasio has laid a wreath at the site of the Paris kosher
store terror attack and vowed to stand in solidarity with France against
'terrorism and anti-semitism'.

Today he visited the site of their death - the Hyper Cacher supermarket -
alongside members of the local Jewish community, as part of a brief overnight
visit to the French capital.

Yohan Cohen, Yoav Hattab, Francois-Michel Saada and Phillipe Braham were
murdered at the kosher bakery by gunman Amedy Coulibaly, who was shot dead by
police after taking its customers hostage on January 9.

Photos from this morning's ceremony show de Blasio laying a wreath at the site
and meeting with local Jewish leaders.

His office released a statement in which he promised to support France.

It read: 'The mayor will stand in solidarity with our friends in Paris and
across France to send the clear message that together we will fight terrorism
and anti-semitism at every turn, and that crude attempts to intimidate free
expression will not succeed.'

His trip also includes a meeting with Paris mayor Anne Hidalgo, a wreath-laying
at Charlie Hebdo, and a wreath-laying where police officer Ahmed Merbat was shot
and killed near the magazine's offices.

His trip comes just days after Secretary of State John Kerry's late and forced
trip to France.

After a wave of domestic criticism that the US had not sent adequate
representation to France in the wake of the terror attacks, a grovelling Kerry
arrived late last week in what was an awkward show of contrition.

The mayor also remains under pressure at home - tensions between City Hall and
NYPD officers are at their highest in decades.

The head of the NYPD's largest police union has said de Blasio has 'blood on his
hands' for the deaths of Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu, after they were gunned
down by a madman who was upset about alleged police brutality cases.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            January 20, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Man's face is slashed open in robbery bid;
Police probe brutal knife attack ; TERROR

BYLINE: Gavin McInally

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 275 words


A young man was left needing 16 stitches in his face after two men burst into
his home and slashed him during a robbery bid.

The 26-year-old victim was left with his ear and cheek sliced open following the
horror attack, which took place in a flat on Kirklandneuk Road, Renfrew.

It's understood the brutes were after money when they targeted the home.

Once inside, they demanded cash from the terrified man before one of the knife
thugs lashed out, cutting his left ear open.

The same raider then slashed the victim's right cheek open before they both fled
empty handed.

The injured man, who hasn't been identified by police, was rushed to Paisley's
Royal Alexandra Hospital, where he received nine stitches to his ear and another
seven in his face.

One source told the Paisley Daily Express: "The guy was left in pretty bad shape
and needed to get to hospital to have the wounds stitched up.

"The two men forced their way into his home and appeared to want money from him
but they didn't get any.

"Instead, one of the guys attacked him a couple of times with a knife and then
they both left the house."

Police in Renfrew have appealed for witnesses to help track down the attackers.

Detective Inspector Stuart Lees said: "The two men were wearing dark blue-hooded
tops and were described as being in their early 20s.

"They were last seen running off in the direction of Renfrew town centre.

"We would like to hear from anyone who may have seen these men in the area of
Kirklandneuk Road at around 8.20pm on Thursday."

Anyone with information is asked to contact police on 101.

Alternatively, contact Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111, where anonymity can be
maintained.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Horror The attack took place in a flat on Kirklandneuk Road,
RenfrewPicture © google

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PDE


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      January 20, 2015 Tuesday 2:53 PM GMT

Police urged to build gunfire alarms in hospitals and train stations following
Paris terror attack

SECTION: LONDON

LENGTH: 356 words


Scotland Yard is being urged to install a gunfire detection system in public
buildings such as hospitals and train stations to speed up the response to a
Paris-style attack.

Conservative members on the London Assembly say the gunfire alarms should be
installed at "soft" targets to help cut the response times for firearms officers
to reach the scene of a terrorist attack.

The system - in use in several US cities - involves dozens of microphones and
infra red cameras to detect a gun being fired and then automatically alerts
police.

Roger Evans, the Conservative's crime spokesman, said: "An alarm system
detecting gunfire would automatically alert authorities to a live incident. It
would remove the need to make emergency calls in the first place, cutting
response times by several minutes and saving lives in the process.

"One of the major issues during a live shooting situation is the time is takes
to call the police.

"People first have to make life or death decisions to protect themselves, before
being in a position to use their phone, delaying response times."

He has written to the Mayor, Met Commissioner Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe and Home
Secretary Theresa May urging a £3 million UK-wide pilot at 50 undisclosed public
sites.

The system is already in use in several US cities including Washington where it
is claimed to be a success and helped speed up the location of victims of
gunshots.

Related stories

Scotland Yard is understood to have examined the system already but there are
doubts over its effectiveness.

West Midlands police launched a trial of the system called Shot Locator in
Birmingham in 2010 but abandoned it after two years.

The force reported that on some occasions it was unable to locate the position
of the gunshots and on others it had not activated when a gunshot was fired.

A Met spokesman said they had received the letter and would be examining the
idea.

Terrorist assaults involving multiple gunmen are a major fear after a number of
recent attacks.

An attack at the Westgate shopping centre in Nairobi in September 2013 killed
more than 60 people while marauding gunmen killed 164 people in Mumbai in 2008.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Stoke The Sentinel

                            January 20, 2015 Tuesday

A degree in dealing with terror attacks

BYLINE: KATHIE MCINNES; EDUCATION REPORTER

SECTION: AGENCY:OTHER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 464  words


WITH Ebola outbreaks, terrorism attacks and cyber hacking, there has never been
a more important time to focus on keeping the nation safe.

Now Buxton and Leek College has decided to tap into the growing market in
emergency planning by launching a degree course in the subject.

The first students on the new foundation degree in public safety, disaster
management and resilience will start this week, with a second group being
recruited for September.

They will learn about a wide range of topics, covering everything from
environmental pollution and earthquakes through to pandemics and terrorist acts.

Students could also be testing out how to manage different scenarios using a
virtual town. Computer software would enable them to look at how key services
respond to chemical spills, natural disasters and a series of other incidents.

Course leader Anne Brown said the aim was to cover risks from a local, national
and global perspective to help students understand the background to these
issues.

Alongside projects, they will also be encouraged to take on volunteer placements
with organisations like St John Ambulance or as specials with police forces.

Ms Brown added: "We will be looking at developing their management and teamwork
skills. We would also like to develop links with the emergency services.

"At local level, every local authority has an emergency plan and a community
risk register, which looks for emerging threats. Nationally, you have Cobra. At
the moment, our security is at the severe threat level.

"Then you've got issues like international terrorism. If you look at what
happened in Paris recently, there's a lot of interest in Islamic
fundamentalism."

The course field trips are set to include studying environmental challenges.

Ecology expert and lecturer Andrew Farmer said: "It might involve going to fresh
water sites and woodlands. They could also be looking at pollution incidents,
geological sites around the Peak District, and how to mitigate flooding."

For the counter-terrorism element, students will also be visiting Belfast to
learn about the Northern Ireland troubles.

Russ Barlow will be leading the terrorism module and brings a wealth of
knowledge to the course as he is a serving sergeant with Derbyshire Police.

He said: "My personal experience as a police officer has been with animal rights
terrorism and environmental terrorism. We've had things like fire bombs.

"For the course, we will be looking at how people get involved in terrorism and
the kinds of dangers. What most people know about terrorism is through the
media, but there's little in-depth analysis."

Students who complete the two-year course could go into a wide variety of
careers, such as working for council civil contingency teams, the emergency
services, Armed Forces or aid charities.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 20, 2015 Tuesday 8:11 PM GMT

British jihadist declared dead as he returned home from Syria is convicted of
terrorism offences;
Fears Briton Imran Khawaja, a major figure in the Isil-linked terror group Rayat
al-Tawheed in Syria, may have been planning terror attacks here

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 739 words


A senior Isil jihadist who faked his own death to try and slip back to the UK
could have been planning a terror attack here, a police commander signalled.

Briton Imran Khawaja was a major figure in the Isil-linked terror group Rayat
al-Tawheed in Syria and in one video was seen holding a severed head.

He appeared a number of promotional films for the fanatics encouraging others to
join him, including one called "Five Star Jihad".

In May last year he and his group faked his death with messages on social media
in an attempt to try and slip back to the UK.

However, Khawaja, who received terror training in Syria, was caught at Dover
just days after his reported death as he tried to get back in to the UK.

There were fears last night over his reasons for coming back, raising the
prospect he may have planned to launch an attack here.

Commander Richard Walton, head of the Met's Counter Terrorism Command, said:
"Imran Khawaja was not a vulnerable teenager that has travelled out to Syria and
been coerced to travel to Syria.

"This is a man who has chosen the path of terrorism. We don't know why he came
back. We don't know what he was planning.

"But this is a dangerous man, a trained terrorist."

Khawaja, 27, a bodybuilder, received firearms training at a base run by Rayat
al-Tawheed and was in the country for six months.

On social media and in promotional videos he was known as Abu Daigham al
Baritani or Abu Daigham al-Britani.

One video, Five Star Jihad, presented a vision of daily life at the Rayat al
Tawheed training camp and encouraged others to join them.

Khawaja, formerly of Southall, London, was also seen in a more disturbing video
which included a bag of severed heads.

His face covered to avoid detection, he picked up one of the heads to show to
the camera, while a caption read: "British ISIL fighter Abu Daigham al-Britani
with Government soldier's head Syria".

Prosecutor Mark Dawson told Westminster Magistrates Court at an earlier hearing:
"We say he is a senior member of that group because that group publishes media
on things like Facebook and within that media are videos of members of that
group in a training camp for example, driving in a convoy in military vehicles
with anti-aircraft weapons and heavy machine-guns.

He was arrested at Dover on June 3 along with his taxi driver cousin Tahir
Bhatti, 45, of Watford, Herts, who had travelled out to Bulgaria to help him
return.

At the Old Bailey last month Khawaja admitted four charges of preparation of
terrorist acts, attendance at a place used for terrorist training, receiving
weapons training and possession of a firearm for terrorist purposes.

A charge of soliciting to murder between 25 January and 4 June 2014 was left to
lie on the file after prosecutor Brian Altman QC said the Crown had decided to
accept the pleas.

The plea can now be reported after the judge, Mr Justice Baker, lifted a
Contempt of Court order at the Old Bailey on Tuesday.

That came after Bhatti, a father-of-seven, admitted assisting an offender by
helping him to return to the UK after his terrorist training.

The prosecution accepted the plea and asked for further charges of preparation
of terrorist acts and failing to disclose information to lie on the file.

Bhatti was alleged to have helped Khawaja by agreeing to provide a replacement
phone, funding the purchase of a Kalashnikov assault rifle, using coded messages
and helping him avoid arrest by hiring a car to pick him up from Sofia in
Bulgaria.

The pair communicated through a simple code via text message and Whatsapp.

The court had heard that another feature of the case was the use of a
communications app called Telegram - a secured and encrypted system that could
not be intercepted.

Mr Dawson said the "road trip" was carefully orchestrated with the use of code
words in messages.

There was talk of being "in a club"and needing "clothes" because of the "puke"
and that a "doorman" was not letting him out.

The "club" meant a camp. The "doormen" were those running it. "Puke" related to
battlefield material - he needed new clothes.

A third suspect Asim Ali, 33, of Ealing, west London, has also admitted entering
into a funding arrangement for the purposes of terrorism by giving £300 to
Khawaja between January and June 2014.

One further charge of preparing acts of terrorism was left on the file after he
entered the plea on 23 December 2014.

All three will be sentenced on 5 February 2015.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 20, 2015 Tuesday 7:56 PM GMT

Cristina Kirchner accuses dead prosecutor of attempting to 'cover up and
confuse' bombing investigation;
The president of Argentina accuses Alberto Nisman, found dead on Sunday in a
possible suicide, of lies in his dossier on Argentina's worst ever terrorist
attack

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 697 words


Cristina Kirchner has launched a lengthy criticism of the Argentine prosecutor
who accused her of whitewashing the country's worst ever terrorist attack -
hours after he was found dead.

Alberto Nisman on Wednesday had unveiled the culmination of a decade of work
investigating the 1994 bombing of a Jewish centre in Buenos Aires. In his
report, which he was due to present to a parliamentary committee on Monday, he
said he had details from wiretaps that showed that Ms Kirchner had colluded with
Iran to cover up Iran's responsibility for the attack, which killed 85 people.
Iran has always denied being behind the bombing, and Ms Kirchner's government
said his accusations were "ridiculous".

Yet on Sunday night - hours before he was to detail his findings - he was found
dead, in the bathroom of his locked fla,t with a handgun by his side, in what
appeared to be suicide.

In Buenos Aires on Monday night hundreds gathered outside the presidential
residence, La Casa Rosada, in the central Plaza de Mayo to honour his memory.
Across Argentina - in Salta, Cordoba, Bariloche and outside Ms Kirchner's
Patagonia home - placards were held aloft proclaiming "Yo soy Nisman" (I am
Nisman) and demanding justice for the 51-year-old.

But after the marches Ms Kirchner published a 2,100-word response on Facebook to
Mr Nisman's death, in which she attacked the prosecutor for "sidetracking" an
investigation already plagued by two decades of delays and deliberate blockages.

"In the case of the suicide (?) of the prosecutor in charge of the AMIA case,
Alberto Nisman, there is not only astonishment and unanswered questions, but
also a story far too long, too heavy, too painful, and for all those reasons
very sordid: the tragedy of the worst terrorist attack to hit Argentina," she
wrote.

She detailed her own personal recollections of July 18, 1994, and described her
own role on one of many commissions formed to investigate the attacks - one
which eventually heard a series of "contradictions, falsehoods, and errors"
which culminated in the investigating judge being removed and charged with abuse
of office and embezzlement.

"We were faced with the biggest fraud in evidence and process in living memory,"
she wrote.

But she then turned her ire on Mr Nisman, who was appointed by Ms Kirchner's
husband, then-president Nestor Kirchner, to investigate the bombing.

"I think that the most important thing is to warn that what he was trying to do
with the case is what the lead judge did 21 years ago: sidetrack, lie, cover up
and confuse."

She posed a series of rhetorical questions - asking why Mr Nisman cut short his
family holiday to return a week early and make the accusations against the
president, and even whether it was more than mere coincidence that his flight
back to Argentina was on the same day as the Charlie Hebdo memorial marches in
Paris. She didn't make clear why this would be suspicious.

She also questions why he had a .22 calibre handgun in his house when he was
living in a high-security apartment with sophisticated entry systems, and 10
federal bodyguards assigned to him. It was not clear where the guards were at
the time of his death.

However, Mr Nisman's family were reported on Tuesday to be telling friends that
they did not believe he had committed suicide, and said that among the papers
left on his desk they found a shopping list for his housekeeper the following
day.

His friend Waldo Wolff, head of the Delegation of Argentine-Israeli
Associations, published on Tuesday the last photo taken by Mr Nisman - an image
of his desk, with piles of neatly-ordered documents and a stash of yellow
highlighter pens. He was said to be eager to present his findings.

The prosecutor in charge of the case of Mr Nisman's death, Viviana Fein, said
that there were no traces of gunpowder on the dead man's hands - but that that
should not be taken as proof of anything, as the gun was a small weapon which
didn't necessarily leave traces.

On Tuesday Mr Nisman's ex-wife, the judge Sandra Arroyo Salgado, mother of his
two daughters, arrived in Argentina from her home in Spain.

"I don't want to speculate about this," she said. "Now is not the moment to
talk."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 20, 2015 Tuesday 4:33 PM GMT

Five Chechens arrested in France accused of preparing terror attack;
The arrests come a day after 800,000 took part in a march in Grozny against the
front page Prophet Mohammed cartoon published in Charlie Hebdo

BYLINE: By Henry Samuel Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 548 words


Five Chechens were arrested in southern France on suspicion of preparing a
terror attack, a day after hundreds of thousands took part in a march in Grozny
against Charlie Hebdo's front page featuring the Prophet Mohammed.

A cache of explosives was found in an apartment in Montpellier, where four of
the group were arrested on Tuesday, while a fifth man was seized in Béziers,
some 40 miles southwest, according to the local prosecutor.

Up to 800,000 people turned out on Monday to a state-organised rally in Grozny,
the capital of Chechnya - a highly restive and predominantly Muslim region in
Russia - against the front page caricature of a tearful Prophet Mohammed holding
a placard saying "I am Charlie" under the headline: "All is Forgiven". There
have been violent protests in several other countries, including Niger and
Pakistan.

France is on high alert following three days of attacks by jihadists earlier
this month in Paris that left 17 dead. Twelve died in and around the offices of
the satirical magazine, Charlie Hebdo, while a policewoman was shot in a western
Paris district and four Jewish hostages killed in a Kosher supermarket to the
east of the French capital.

The latest arrests came as four men faced charges over providing logistical
support to gunman Amedy Coulibaly, the killer of the policewoman and four Jewish
hostages.

The Paris prosecutor's office said five others arrested in the investigation
were released without charge.

In other developments, a Bulgarian court approved the extradition of a Frenchman
who admits knowing the Charlie Hebdo attackers but denies being an extremist.

Fritz-Joly Joachin, 29, a Muslim convert, was arrested on January 1 as he tried
to cross from Bulgaria into Turkey. He told the court in Haskovo in southern
Bulgaria: "I am innocent. I want to return to France."

Meanwhile, New York mayor Bill de Blasio paid a flying visit to Paris on Tuesday
to show his "solidarity" with the city.

Mr De Blasio laid flowers outside the offices of Charlie Hebdo and at the Kosher
supermarket, scene of the hostage drama.

Afterwards, he gave a joint conference with Paris mayor Anne Hidalgo and
described the terrorist attacks in Paris as the French capital's 9/11.

"Paris and New York have walked the same path in so many ways. We have both
borne the brunt of terror and we have for many years show the example, in our
own way, of tolerance, integration and a multicultural society."

He added: "This attack, like 9/11 is a turning point for Paris, as 9/11 was for
us. These attacks have had the same impact. It challenges us to find a way
forward."

"The people of New York stand with you," he told Ms Hidalgo.

While the hunt for accomplices continues, Manuel Valls, the prime minister, said
the killings should force France to tackle "ethnic apartheid" that he said was
still prevalent nine years after riots that shook many of its deprived suburbs.

"The stigmas remain...a territorial, social and ethnic apartheid that has
imposed itself on our country," he said. "The social misery is compounded by the
daily discriminations, because someone does not have the right name, the right
color of skin, or because she is a woman."

While he said he wasn't making excuses for crime or terrorism, "we also have to
look at the reality of our country".

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:31:17

