



Download Request: Select Items: 500-911
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:03:26
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            April 19, 1997, Saturday

COP PROBED OVER ROAD RAGE ATTACK;
He terrorised handicapped kids;
A road rage policeman is being investigated after handicapped kids were
terrorised

BYLINE: Cara Page Exclusive

SECTION: Page 17

LENGTH: 255 words


A road rage cop was being investigated yesterday after handicapped kids were
terrorised.

The youngsters were left in tears following the incident.

One of the adult passengers was so terrified he had a series of epileptic fits
and had to be taken to hospital.

Charity worker Millie Wood, 50, yesterday told of their ordeal as the group
headed back to Peterhead after taking part in a bowling contest in Lincoln.

She said the furious bobby struck as she turned off a roundabout after leaving
the A1 at Berwick-upon-Tweed.

She noticed a VW Golf behind their minibus and the driver blasted his horn.

Millie pulled in to a deserted petrol station to let the Golf overtake - but the
driver followed her, smashing a light on their trailer.

Millie said: "He jumped out of his car and came across and battered on the side
of my door.

"I wound down my window and he started shouting at me. He said I had pulled out
in front of him on the roundabout.

"He was really angry and aggressive and two of the children started to cry.

"Then he flashed a special constable's badge in my face and stormed back to his
car.

"He sped off leaving us all in a terrible state of alarm.

"It was obvious my passengers were mentally handicapped and I couldn't believe
the way he had behaved."

Millie noted down his registration number and immediately reported it to police.

"It's disgraceful a man in his position should vent his anger on a group like
that."

Last night, a police spokesman said a probe was under way


LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                               2 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 21, 1997, Monday

POLICE FEAR IRA MURDER GANG ATTACK;
ANTI TERRORIST POLICE FEAR THAT A CRACK IRA MURDER SQUAD IS ON THE LOOSE IN
BRITAIN

BYLINE: Joe Gorrod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 334 words


Terror cops fear that a crack IRA murder squad is on the loose in Britain with a
'super-gun'.

Five of the Provos' border raiders have disappeared from their usual haunts in
the last fortnight.

Anti-terrorist teams fear that the IRA is planning a spectacular attack on a
high-profile politician, using a heavy calibre Barrett sniper rifle.

They believe the IRA's Grand National stunt may have been a smoke screen to let
the killer gang slip into hiding in Britain.

Three of them were in Liverpool on the race day and shook off their undercover
trackers in the Aintree evacuation turmoil.

Yesterday, the five were absent from annual Sinn Fein's annual conference in Co
Monaghan.

An RUC detective said last night: "There were some familiar faces missing and
they may have found other things to do.

"The disappearance of a bunch of dedicated killers makes us uneasy that the
Provos are planning an assassination."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                               3 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            April 22, 1997, Tuesday

TERROR CHIEFS VOW TO 'MATCH PROVOS';
          ATTACK ON SF OFFICES SEEN AS PART OF STRATEGY

BYLINE: Richard Sullivan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 312 words


Loyalist paramilitary chiefs have vowed to keep their promise and match the
Provos "blow for blow".

Yesterday's bomb attack at Sinn Fein offices in Londonderry is being viewed as
further indication that loyalist terrorists are determined to maintain their
"measured response" to republican attacks in Northern Ireland and on the
mainland.

No one was injured in yesterday's attack, which SF claimed was an attempt to
frighten republicans in the run up to the election, but prominent republicans
have already been warned to step up personal security.

It will be seen as retaliation for the shooting of WPC Alice Collins in the city
last week. The mother of three, 46, remains in hospital after being hit in the
back.

Political representatives insist the loyalist ceasefire remains in place but
there have been several murder bids, including a car bomb attack on a Sinn Fein
member in Londonderry. A fortnight ago a car bomb was detonated outside the
party's offices in the New Lodge area of Belfast.

All three groups which signed up to the truce, the UFF, the UVF and Red Hand
Commando, have broken it.

A month ago security forces defused a bomb left outside Sinn Fein premises in
Monaghan.

David Ervine of the Progressive Unionist Party, which is linked to the UVF, said
it now seemed the CLMC was now responding to every IRA incident.

"I have no evidence that is the case, but one can see the situation is becoming
very fraught and one must do everything in their power to try and pull it back."

Only minor damage was caused by the pipe bomb in yesterday's attack at
Racecourse Road.

No organisation has claimed responsibility for the attack, in line with the
loyalist "no claim no blame" strategy.

Sinn Fein chairman Mitchel McLaughlin said attacks and the disruption on the
mainland served to illustrate the need for dialogue.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CLEARING UP: SF's Mitchell McLaughlin outside the Shantallow offices
after the attack

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 26, 1997, Saturday

BRUTON RAPS IRA BOMBING CAMPAIGN;
IRELAND'S TOP TWO POLITICIANS ATTACK IRA'S RENEWED TERROR CAMPAIGN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 267 words


Ireland's top two politicians yesterday attacked the IRA's renewed terror
campaign in Britain.

Premier John Bruton said ex-pats were becoming more isolated. "IRA antics are
causing great hardship for the Irish community in the UK," he warned.  "They
make reconciliation harder."

His theme was developed by Tanaiste Dick Spring who said the Irish in Britain
were ashamed and embarrassed by those who had "the impudence to claim they are
acting in the name of Ireland".

"They are not," he said. The activities of the IRA are not only morally wrong
but politically stupid and directly opposed to the interests of the Irish
people."

Both men attacked Sinn Fein for failing to restrain its military wing. "They
must choose violence or democracy.  They cannot straddle both" said the
Taoiseach.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                               5 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 2, 1997

Counter attack on tills of terror

BYLINE: Judy Mackie

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1307 words


Scots can complain with the best of them, but not, it seems, to those who can
make a difference. Judy Mackie examines an initiative which hopes to keep the
customer satisfied

EVERYONE has their pet story about shoddy customer care. We regale our friends
with tales of sneering shop assistants, disdainful car dealers, and tardy
television repair engineers,

re-enacting the scenario and agonising over what we should have said or done.

But do we complain to the people responsible? Not if we live in Grampian,
apparently.

A survey commissioned

by Grampian Enterprise has revealed that 47% of people

living in the North-east either never or rarely complain about poor service.
Service providers are equally shy about customer care - only one in three
organisations within both the public and private sectors has an official
customer care policy, and of these, only 21% let their customers know about it.

These stark statistics have prompted the recent launch of a ground-breaking
campaign, Customer Care Aware, aimed at raising standards throughout the region.
Leading the initiative is Grampian Enterprise director of learning and skills,
Bruce Armitage, who explains: "In this part of the country, we have to a great
extent been protected from the effects of recession. There are thousands of
well-paid jobs in technology and industry and not everyone is as yet fully up to
the fact

that the service sector is where the majority of jobs of the future will lie.

"Good service makes good economic sense. Being a high-cost area, operating
within

an international market-place, our competitive strength lies in providing
quality service, rather than low prices."

Armitage points out that everyone should have an

input into improving service standards. "Our research has shown that among
consumers generally there are low expectations of customer care, and that
service standards across every sector leave room for improvement. It's a two
-way street: businesses and other organisations need to be made aware of the
importance of providing good service - but they also need customer feedback and
support."

By involving the entire community, the campaign aims to grow and develop a
strong

customer care ethos which

will become part of north-east

culture. More than a simple awareness-raising exercise,

it takes a practical approach, providing the tools and training necessary to
gauge customer satisfaction and reverse apathetic attitudes.

Hundreds of businesses and public sector organisations

are being encouraged to participate. Free advice and low-cost training are
available, using

a model based on the hospitality industry's Scotland's Best training philosophy.
Those demonstrating a commitment to customer care will receive a certificate and
publicity material to display at their premises.

Secondary schools, colleges, and universities will also be targeted, with a CD
-Rom and opportunities to take part in industry-related projects focusing on
service standards.

To help raise expectations throughout the community, a locally based media
campaign will focus on customer care issues, giving consumers the chance to
publicly praise or criticise particular organisations. Armitage is encouraged
that the initial reaction has been one of enthusiasm.

"We have launched the initiative in partnership with a number of agencies,
including Aberdeen Chamber of Commerce and both local authorities, and so far we
have received a positive response.

"During the summer, we will carry out follow-up surveys

of the local community and

visitors to the area, to assess whether the campaign is having a positive
effect."

And if people are not happy about the way it is being carried out?

"We will be delighted to hear constructive criticism or feedback from anyone, at
any time."

Customer care is a synonym for common sense, according to independent Saab
dealer Adrian Smith, who welcomes the Grampian-wide campaign.

"There's nothing magical about the concept - treat your customers well and you
will bring them back. In a highly competitive market such as ours, providing a
person has no strong brand preference, good customer care can make all the
difference between gaining or losing a sale. It also makes life a lot more
pleasant for everyone concerned."

Since it was set up in Aberdeen in 1982, the company has clocked up an
impressive collection of 12 quality service awards, including, for three years
running, the Automotive Management QSI Awards in Prestige Dealership.

Customer satisfaction has been a driving force since day one, says Smith, who
believes it has helped his company achieve 1.29% of the total market share in
Grampian at a time when Saab's national average is 0.73%.

It begins with image - a

spotless showroom; coffee, newspapers and satellite TV in reception; a display
of crystal customer care awards; aftershave in the men's toilets and perfume in
the ladies' - and is carried through the selling process to a
collection/delivery service; an after-sales phone call and thank-you letter; the
assurance that complaints will be promptly dealt with, and courtesy cars for
loan during service/repair work. Staff are trained under the Investors in People
programme, and everyone receives regular feedback on local service performance
from Saab's national customer satisfaction survey.

"There is really nothing new to offer in the way of customer care. The important
thing is to go that little bit further to make people happy. We don't see
ourselves as by any means perfect, but we do make a continual effort to keep
standards high," says Smith.

The Grampian Enterprise survey was initiated by Marks & Spencer management
secondee Colin Hughes, and carried out by Ashbrook Research and Consultancy
Limited. It involved 800 face-to-face interviews with members of the public and
400 telephone interviews with businesses.

Findings

Among the general public:

n Customer care was regarded as the third most important aspect of service
provision, after quality and cost.

n Consumers were dissatisfied with customer care standards in relation to buses,
trains, clothes shopping, local authorities, household goods shopping and taxis.

n Where standards were believed to be poor, complaints included poor quality of
goods/services; lack of courtesy/politeness; lack of helpfulness and lack of
promptness.

n 47% said they never or occasionally complain when they receive poor standards
of care.

Among businesses:

n A third of those surveyed have a formal customer care policy.

n Customer care policies are least apparent among smaller employers and
independents.

n While those with a customer care policy make staff aware of it, only 21%
ensure customers know about it, and a mere 9% tell customers only if they have
complaints or problems.

n Of those who do not have a policy (67%) only 6% had taken steps to develop
one.

IT'S THE BUSINESS

According to the Grampian public, good

customer care involves:

"Answering the phone promptly and if they have to put you on hold, remembering
you're there."

"Being greeted in a friendly manner when you walk into a shop or reception
area."

''Showing genuine interest in what they're

selling and not trying to fob you off with

something you don't want."

"Remembering you when you come back."

TROUBLE IN STORE

The Grampian public believe that bad

customer care comes from:

"Being treated as a nuisance by shop assistants engrossed in their own
conversation."

"Not informing you about unexpected delays in delivering your goods."

"Having you wait in all day for a repair engineer who doesn't turn up."

"Aggressive selling - coming to give you a quote and not knowing when to leave!"

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Victory: the customer service desk holds no fear for Richard Wilson's
determined Mr Meldrew.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                               6 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             May 13, 1997, Tuesday

PREGNANT WOMAN ESCAPES ALIVE FROM TERROR GUN ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 177 words


A pregnant woman had a narrow escape when the front of her home was sprayed with
gunfire last night.

An RUC chief said it was "only by the grace of God" that the woman was not
killed in the attack at Archvale Park, Carnmoney, on the outskirts of north
Belfast.

Superintendent Campbell Dixon is in no doubt that the attack was sectarian.

The woman was in the livingroom when the gunmen struck at about 10.10pm.

Her husband was at work and their two children, aged 10 and seven, were upstairs
in bed

Other children on the cul-de-sac saw a white Volkswagen Golf car drive past turn
and stop outside the house.

Two masked men got out and tried to smash open the front door with a
sledgehammer.

When they failed six shots were fired through the front window.

The terrorised woman, who is seven months pregnant, was at the back of the room
when the bullets crashed around her.

Neighbours ran to her aid but she was so terrified at first she was reluctant to
leave the room.

She was later treated in hospital for severe shock.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                               7 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 18, 1997, Sunday

Jumbo blast: bombs rip a 747 apart to simulate a terrorist attack

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page  1

LENGTH: 52 words


Scientists exploded four bombs on a jumbo jet at Bruntingthorpe airfield,
Leicestershire, yesterday, to test armoured baggage containers and other secret
materials designed to prevent a repeat of the 1988 Lockerbie terrorist outrage.
The front portion of the aircraft survived the test Photograph by PA


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                               8 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 18, 1997, Sunday

FOUR BOMBS RIP THE TAIL OFF JUMBO JET;
JET EXPLODED TO SIMULATE A TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 93 words


A jumbo jet has been blown to pieces. Four blasts, designed to simulate a
terrorist attack, tore the tailplane from the aircraft at Bruntingthorpe,
Leicester. The experiment is helping scientists to test new ways of
strengthening aircraft fuselages to avoid tragedies like the Lockerbie disaster.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                               9 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 31, 1997

I fell down, then they struck out at me with the bottle;
GERMAN PUPIL TELLS OF TERROR ATTACK BY GANG

BYLINE: David Walmsley

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 272 words



A GERMAN boy returning home this weekend will have lasting nightmares of his
school trip to Scotland.

He was stabbed in the back with a broken bottle, and his friend's face was
beaten so badly it was doubtful he could play the flute in the school concert.

Joscha Weber, 14, told yesterday how the boys were cornered on Wednesday just
hours after they had arrived in Glasgow on a five-day school visit.

The youngsters were attacked after a fun water fight with some girls across the
road from the Glasgow Steiner School, Lumsden Street, Yorkhill, where the
36-strong school party from south-east Germany were staying.

Joscha, Bastian Dorfling, 15, and another 14-year-old boy were kicked and
punched, and a broken bottle was pushed into their faces.

'There was a group of them attacking us,' Joscha said yesterday. 'One of them
kicked me and I fell. I got up and managed to run to the edge of the grass and
then I fell again.

'I put my hands over my head to protect myself and that is when they struck me
in the back with the broken bottle.'

Joscha, who was treated for a punctured lung at the nearby Western Infirmary,
was discharged yesterday. His two friends were released earlier after receiving
about 12 stitches each.

Last night, the youngsters were due to play a concert in the Rudolf Steiner
School before returning home this weekend.

Bastian normally plays the flute, but teacher Karen Nieman said yesterday: 'The
bruising around his face and eyes means his face is really quite swollen in
places, so Bastian will probably have to listen to the concert instead of play
in it.'


LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: JOSCHA: WILL BE HAUNTED BY MEMORIES OF HIS SCHOOL VISIT TO GLASGOW

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              10 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 16, 1997

REAL LIVES: THE LAST WORD IN SURVIVAL;
Oklahoma bomber Timothy McVeigh launched the deadliest terrorist attack ever on
US soil. He learned how from cheap mail-order manuals. John Sutherland assesses
'how to' books, from the bizarre to the frightening

BYLINE: John Sutherland

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. T8

LENGTH: 2414 words


In the press post-mortems on the Heaven's Gate mass suicide, much was made of
the cult's loony infatuation with Star Trek and X-Files fantasy. Largely
overlooked was the admirable efficiency with which the 38 followers of 'Do'
topped themselves (or, as they quaintly put it, 'shed their vehicles').

Most suicides - particularly the 5,000-or-so suicides which take place in
Britain every year - are horribly botched. And you won't get useful lessons on
shedding your vehicle from Captain Kirk or Agent Scully. Heaven's Gate used a
'how-to' book - Derek Humphry's Final Exit: The Practicalities of Self
Deliverance and Assisted Suicide ($ 15).

In America there is a whole library of such 'survivalist' manuals (or in
Humphry's case, books that instruct you how not to survive). They are not
stocked in regular bookstores and are most conveniently available through
mail-order or at the gun-shows which are popular events in the south- western
states. Most survivalist books are unpublishable in the UK; many of them it
would be criminal (under the terms of the Prevention of Terrorism Act) even to
possess. In America they are protected by the first and second amendments to the
constitution, which guarantee freedom of speech and the citizen's right to bear
arms.

Curiosity can trace survivalism back to the immigrants' manuals of the colonial
period. More recently survivalist literature was given middle-class
respectability by the cold war, and the general expectation that America - or at
least its hardier spirits - would need the know-how to survive a nuclear
holocaust when the population crawled from its-fallout shelters. Some classics
from that era, such as Life After Doomsday ($ 26), are still survivalist
bestsellers.

A terrifying range of 'practicalities' is covered by the literature. The largest
category deals with firearms and explosives - store-bought and 'improvised'.
Recent additions are: Bazooka: How To Build Your Own ($ 11) - 'A bazooka is not
difficult to make, and you can find all the materials at your local hardware
store'; and Improvised Home-Built Recoil-less Launchers ($ 15) - 'What sets this
design apart from the others is its unique countershot system, which uses
cookies. Yes cookies!' For those who favour closer-quarter warfare, there is The
Do-it-Yourself Submachine Gun ($ 21) - 'It's homemade, 9mm, lightweight, durable
and it'll never be on any import ban lists!'; or Silencers From The Home
Workshop ($ 12.95) - 'The author believes that the day will come when a person's
very existence may depend on whether he has a weapon to defend himself and
resist an enemy.' For those without even the amenities of a local hardware store
or a home workshop, there are Improvised Weapons in American Prisons ($ 11);
Dirty Fighting ($ 12.95); Deal The First Deadly Blow ($ 19) - 'This is not a
treatise on the gentlemanly art of self-defence!'; and Put 'Em Down, Take 'Em
Out! ($ 9) - 'Knife fighting techniques from Folsom Prison'. And after your man
is down and out, what then? You'll find the answer in Be Your Own Undertaker ($
11) - 'How to dispose of a dead body.' Many of the 'self-defence' titles in the
survivalist library are bootleg military booklets. Among the most horrific are
the Special Forces torture manuals, such as Physical Interrogation Techniques ($
13.95). It details such fine points of the art as how to 'humiliate' your
'subject', by making him eat his own excrement: 'Piss can be safely recycled
through the human body up to three times. As distasteful as it might be, no one
dies from eating shit, unless the shit is contaminated with parasites or disease
organisms.' The torturer is, however, primly reminded to wash his hands to avoid
self-infection.

No page of this book is without its horrors but most chilling is the precise
instruction on how best to squeeze your subject's testicles: 'Use one hand to
hold them in place while the other turns the scrotum one complete turn, trapping
the testicles securely so they will not be able to pop back up and get lost near
the base of the penis . . . To minimise your own muscle fatigue tighten one
finger at a time, then slowly relax it while you tighten another. Watch his face
closely for how he reacts to the pain - his eyes will be particularly
expressive.' Survivalism is not for cissies.

Timothy McVeigh, who was found guilty two weeks ago of assembling the massive
truck bomb which killed 168 occupants of the Murrah building in Oklahama on
April 19, 1995, was a long-time frequenter of gun shows and traded in
survivalist literature as well as weaponry. Testimony was given that he had in
his possession Homemade C-4 ($ 15) - 'Serious survivors know that the day may
come when they need something more powerful than commercial dynamite.' The
Murrah building was, however, destroyed not by C-4 but by a huge ammonium
nitrate device. It is highly likely that McVeigh consulted another sinister
manual in the survivalist archive, Improvised Weapons From Ammonium Nitrate (a
snip at $ 8.95). The problem with this munition is that although it is easily
available by the ton as an agricultural fertiliser it cannot be detonated with
the standard blasting caps (available from any hardware store). The manual
explains how fertiliser grade ammonium nitrate (FGAN) can be sensitised with
'indigenous materials' (such as the nitro-methane racing fuel which Mcveigh
used).

It is not a simple operation - the ratios are complex and the nitrate base needs
to be pulverised. Furthermore, as the manual warns, 'The manufacture,
transportation and detonation of improvised munitions may be in direct violation
of state and local laws as well as federal statutes . . . Additionally,
experimentation with unstable explosive devices is highly dangerous and may
result in serious injury or even death.' Less obnoxiously anti-social are the
'wilderness living' manuals, which cover such topics as Survival Childbirth ($
10.95) - 'A must for any survival bookshelf'; Advanced Mantrapping Techniques ($
13) - 'Man - the most dangerous and deadly game of all - is without doubt
challenging prey'); and How To Build A Junkyard Still ($ 12.95). Survivalists -
typically radical right, redneck, white, angry and lower-middle-class - don't
much like 'hippy' drugs. But for those so inclined there is Practical LSD
Manufacture ($ 19.95) and Secrets of Methamphetamine Manufacture ($ 25.95). The
wilderness is not without its amenities.

In the grey area between the criminal and the mischievous is a range of books
dealing with 'guerrilla' citizenship. They include ingenious manuals on how to
cheat the hated IRS or lace your tax return forms with poison, how to jam police
radar traps, how to talk your way out of a traffic ticket. For the wholly
unscrupulous there is Credit Card Fraud ($ 18.95, how to commit it, not avoid
it); Locks: How They Work And How To Pick Them ($ 6); and Counterfeit Currency:
How To Really Make Money ($ 16).

For the adventurous: Gunrunning For Fun and Profit ($ 21, 'Fun'?); Drug
Smuggling ($ 17) - 'This is a how-to book by someone who's been in the business
for 16 years'; Getting Started In The Illicit Drug Business ($ 14); and Sneak It
Through ($ 16.95) - 'You never know what you might want to smuggle when times
get tough!' If it works out, the next purchase should be How To Open A Swiss
Bank Account ($ 7.95). If all goes wrong, Vanish! ($ 16) - 'Are you at your
wit's end, dodging creditors, an ex-wife or Uncle Sam? Want a Way Out? Vanish!';
Reborn Overseas ($ 17) - 'Identity building in Europe, Australia and New
Zealand'); and Methods Of Disguise ($ 18.95) - 'Need a 'new look' to go with
your new ID?' Survivalists are deeply paranoid people - apprehensive about the
coming apocalypse, pathologically suspicious of all authority and even their
near and dear ones. Hence, How To Investigate Your Friends And Enemies ($ 15.95)
and A Construction Manual For Electronic Eavesdropping ($ 12.50).

For the less passive survivalist there is an arsenal of 'revenge' books such as
Get Even ($ 13.95) - 'The complete book of dirty tricks'; Screw The Bitch ($
18.95) - 'Get the most out of divorce'; Your Revenge In The Mail ($ 13.95) - how
to write poison-pen letters; Techniques Of Harassment ($ 20.95) - 'How the
underdog gets justice'; The Power Of Positive Revenge ($ 20.95); and The Black
Book of Revenge ($ 13). This last covers everything from relatively harmless
pranks to a chilling step-by-step lesson in how to convert a kitchen light bulb
into a lethal bomb.  For the really pissed off, there is The Poisoner's Handbook
($ 11), which tells you exactly how to off your spouse and never be found out.

For the total $ 544.75 expenditure detailed above you can, with a few hours
study, become a Timothy McVeigh, a Unabomber, a Jeffrey Dahmer, or just the kind
of person you wouldn't want to be next to in a bar. As the promotional material
insists, these books are not 'theory', they are how-to books for can-do people.

Serious survivalists should stock up now, however. Two current trials may lead
to the banning of the more injurious items.  Americans have been appalled by the
Oklahoma bombing and tolerance is wearing thin for such publications as Improved
Munitions From Ammonium Nitrate, or Boom ($ 14.95) - 'Blow things up! One of the
greatest things in the world is knowing you have the technology to wipe out your
whole neighbourhood.' A less publicised trial currently in the Virginia Court of
Appeals is deciding whether the publishers of Hit Man: A Technical Manual for
Independent Contractors ($ 11) can be prosecuted for a string of killings which
have been traced back to the book. The days of the 'murder manual' (as one
Virginia judge called Hit Man) may be numbered. America can probably survive
without them.

John Sutherland is Lord Northcliffe Professor of Modern English Literature at
University College London. His most recent book is Can Jane Eyre Be Happy?
(Oxford World's Classics, pounds 4.99).

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              11 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 23, 1997, Monday

100 WOMEN STALKED BY PRISONERS;
THUGS HIRED FOR ATTACKS;
JAILED STALKERS TERRORISING VICTIMS FROM PRISON

BYLINE: David Thompson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 560 words


Jailed stalkers are continuing to terrorise more than 100 women from behind
bars.

Victims receive threatening hate mail and phone calls as they try to get over
their ordeal.

Some have been beaten up in contract attacks planned with the help of thugs on
the outside.

And prison authorities have been powerless to stop the stalkers from haunting
the women.

Now Home Office Ministers are to meet police, the probation service and pressure
groups to try to combat the growing problem.

Young mum Andrea Hall was beaten unconscious by two thugs in an attack planned
by ex-husband Michael Moore while he was in jail.

She also got chilling phone calls threatening: "I will kill you, the baby and
myself."

She moved away - but Moore tracked her down and continued to stalk her when he
was freed.

He is awaiting sentence again after driving his car at her front wall.

Stalker Andrew Hayward was sent back to jail last month after he admitted
keeping up his hate campaign from jail.

He sent the woman letters by pretending they were to his solicitor. Last week a
prisoner was freed despite claims that he harassed his victim while inside.

Probation Officers' Association chief Harry Fletcher said: "Scores of abusers
are harassing their victims from prison or enticing others to do so.

"There is evidence of a network involving the exchange of information about
victims."

The Prison Service said letters are intercepted and phone calls stopped if women
make complaints.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EVIDENCE: Fletcher

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              12 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 28, 1997, Saturday

MAD COW TERROR;
RUNNER ATTACKED BY HERD OF COWS IN WINDERMERE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 53 words


Runner Guy Mackie, 35, suffered seven broken ribs after he was attacked by a
herd of cows at Matson Ground, Windermere.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              13 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             July 8, 1997, Tuesday

TERROR GROUP ADMITS ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 64 words


Republican terror group the Irish National Liberation Army said it was behind
attacks on police and troops in Belfast during Sunday night.

In a brief statement, the outlawed group said it was responsible for attacks on
RUC and Army patrols. In one incident a grenade failed to explode.

Three people were arrested following the failed grenade attack, the RUC
confirmed.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              14 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            July 23, 1997, Wednesday

TERROR ATTACK ON CAMPING BOY;
Darren Suddaby 13 hit by baseball bat on camping trip

SECTION: Page 9

LENGTH: 79 words


A camping trip turned to horror for a teenage boy when he was smashed on the
head by a baseball bat.

Darren Suddaby, 13, was battered as he checked a noise outside his tent during
the night. The sick attacker ran off laughing after the brutal assault.

Darren and his pal, Scott Goldthorpe, 12, were camping at Dumbryden Primary
School, Wester Hailes, Edinburgh.

As police hunted the ginger-haired maniac, Darren's mum, Diane, said: "My boy
could have been killed."


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              15 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 23, 1997

BRITONS INJURED IN ISRAELI TERROR ATTACK;
Armed Arab motorist rams car into party of Jewish teenagers

BYLINE: Julian Borger In Jerusalem

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 920 words


AN ISRAELI Arab rammed his car into a group of British teenagers in the
Mediterranean port of Jaffa last night, then plunged into a crowd of tourists,
waving a Samurai sword and a commando knife before being arrested by an off-duty
police officer.

Ten Britons - most girls aged 16 or 17 - and two Canadians were reported to be
slightly injured.

The British embassy in Tel Aviv said the injured British teenagers were in a
group of about 30 from the Federation of Zionist Youth, a British Jewish
organisation, on their first day of a three-week visit to Israel.

An embassy spokesman said the injured Britons appeared to have been struck
glancingly by the car, and were being discharged from hospital last night. One
boy had his leg in plaster, but it was not thought to be broken.

"Obviously, they're going to be in a state of shock," the spokesman said.

The wounded Canadians are thought to have been a mother and son on holiday from
Toronto. It is unclear whether they were stabbed or struck with a blunt end of a
sword or dagger. The mother is thought to have suffered mild concussion and was
to spend the night in hospital.

Israeli radio reported that the attacker was a member of the radical Islamist
Hamas movement, but the police said they had no details of his political
affiliations.

An embassy source said the man, a 30-year-old Arab from Nazareth, is believed to
have been involved in similar incidents previously.

It was not immediately apparent if it was a politically motivated attack. A
police spokeswoman said the man appeared to have deliberately driven his car
into the British group in Jaffa's old district, where the narrow streets and
pavement restaurants are crowded on summer evenings. There were no skid marks on
the street.

"It sounded like a car crash, a big bang. I looked, I saw seven or eight people
lying flat on the ground," a woman witness told an Israeli radio station last
night.

The off-duty border policeman, Danny Consul, said: "Suddenly a driver came out
of the car holding a sword in one hand and a commando knife in another. He
swiped at several people and even hit a few.  When I arrived at the entrance to
one of the restaurants, I pointed a gun at him and said 'Stop! Police! Get on
the floor'."

Linda Menuhin said Mr Consul tied the man up and took him to Jaffa police
station.

The Tel Aviv district police commander, Shlomo Aharonishki, said the arrested
man was refusing to co-operate. "The only thing he says is he doesn't know what
happened and can't remember."

Ms Menuhin said the man had also been carrying a plastic toy gun.

Hamas, which opposes the Israeli-Palestinian peace accords, has claimed
responsibility for several attacks against Israeli civilians in recent years,
including the bombing in March of a Tel Aviv cafe that killed three Israeli
women.

Earlier yesterday, a Palestinian woman, Jamalat Salim, aged 32, stabbed and
slightly injured an Israeli border policeman near a Jewish settlement in the
Gaza Strip. She was arrested by Palestinian police.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              16 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            July 24, 1997, Thursday

Terrorist attack will not ruin our trip, say Britons

BYLINE: Christopher Walker

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 709 words


Christopher Walker in Jerusalem finds teenagers determined to go on.

SHAKEN, shocked and bloodied in the type of horrific terrorist incident to which
Israelis have become all too accustomed, 41 British Jewish teenagers vowed
yesterday to continue their month-long educational tour which began with a
ruthless attack on the streets of Old Jaffa.

Graham Kogan, 16, from Redbridge, northeast London, described the terror after
the group was picked as a target by an Israeli Arab supporter of Hamas. He first
drove his Mitsubishi straight at them at 80mph and then lashed out left and
right with a samurai sword and commando knife at those knocked to the floor.

"For the rest of my life I shall never forget the moment that the attacker came
straight towards us swinging the sword. For some reason I do not understand,
something made be go towards him, but luckily he was wrestled to the ground and
I was not hurt," said Graham, speaking at the Tel Aviv hostel where the British
party was visited by psychologists organised by the Jewish Agency.

Ten of the British teenagers were slightly wounded in the attack, but all the
young men and women from London and Manchester will carry the emotional scars of
the first night out in Israel of the "Federation of Zionist Youth Group Number
4", which had landed at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion airport hours earlier.

"The attacker was shouting in Arabic but I could not understand what he was
saying. It was too frightening to think too clearly," Graham said. "All I know
is that anyone who would deliberately accelerate his car into a crowd of
innocent teenagers has to be mad to some degree."

Like the other members of the group, which the Israeli authorities hope includes
British Jews willing to emigrate to Israel permanently, Graham Kogan, who has
just completed GCSEs, was able to speak to his parents at a special incident
room established by the Jewish Agency. "They were terrific. They told me I could
make up my own mind whether to go ahead," he said. He added that in the
immediate aftermath of the attack, there were those anxious to go straight home,
but the mood had changed by yesterday morning, when the whole party left for the
Red Sea resort of Eilat by coach.

"I have learnt a great deal in the past 24 hours. You read that things like this
can happen in Israel but it is just so different, so terrifying, when you are in
the middle of an attack where somebody seems out to kill you and all of those
with you," he said.

Under police interrogation yesterday the attacker, Nazareth-born Bakr Abu
Rabieh, aged in his early thirties, admitted that the car, sword and knife
attack on the British group and some Canadians sitting in a nearby restaurant
had been launched for "nationalistic reasons". Abu Rabieh, reported to have
connections with Hamas, said he had been angered by recent Jewish posters
depicting the Prophet Muhammad as a pig. Western intelligence experts believe
that the posters, drawn by a Jewish extremist from the former Soviet Union who
is undergoing psychiatric tests, could provoke more random attacks like that in
Old Jaffa. Both Hamas and Islamic Jihad have vowed revenge for the posters which
depict the pig stomping on the Koran, and in the Islamic world there have been
demonstrations as far afield as Iran and Bangladesh.

Jonathan Landsman, 21, from Northwood, north London, the British organiser of
the group, praised the courage of the teenagers as the attacker flailed his
sword having shouted the Muslim war cry Allahu akbar (God is greatest) as he
jumped from his wrecked car. He had just left the Mahmoudiya mosque when the
attack was launched shortly after 9pm.

"The whole thing happened so quickly it was difficult for me to have any
immediate thoughts beyond looking after my kids, especially those who were
injured," Mr Landsman said.

"The car just drove straight into them and many were left lying on the ground
screaming. Then the driver went on the attack with some sort of sword that he
was swinging about."

The attacker was in an Israeli hospital last night suffering from a ruptured
spleen after being wrestled to the ground by an off-duty policeman and hit with
a metal pipe by the owner of a nearby kiosk.


LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Newspapers Limited

                              17 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 July 25, 1997

'Tufty' clubbed after spate of terror attacks

BYLINE: David Taylor

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 467 words


A VENGEFUL squirrel's reign of terror which left six people in need of medical
treatment has been ended by a builders' shovel.

The aggressive beast had, according Camden Council, been demanding food with
menaces in the gardens of Hampstead. The wave of attacks began when a woman
sunbathing in her back garden was badly bitten by the squirrel which jumped on
her head. Another man was bitten on the leg as the squirrel became increasingly
ferocious in its search for food.

A Hampstead GP alerted Camden

Council to the antics of the devil of Denning Road and a pest controller,
apparently armed with a bag of nuts, was put on the scent of the squirrel.

The trail of blood was only halted though when the squirrel tried to take on a
burly workman. He was armed with a shovel: it scratched; he swung; and the
squirrel was despatched.

A Camden council spokeswoman said: "The squirrel had probably been regularly fed
by a human and when the feeding to

stopped, it became aggressive in its pursuit of food from humans demanding food
with menaces, in other words. One of our officers went trying to find it, but it
apparently jumped onto the back of a builder who was working in the road. It
scratched him, so he flattened the squirrel with his shovel."

The episode will do little to rehabilitate the image of the squirrel which has
nosedived since the days when Tufty was the nation's road safety guru.

The cartoon hero has long since been replaced by a hedgehog, and the grey
squirrel now officially falls into the pest category.


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              18 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 July 31, 1997

LVF rules out new ceasefire;

Terror group in attacks warning

BYLINE: By Chris Thornton

LENGTH: 390 words


THE outlawed Loyalist Volunteer Force today ruled out a ceasefire and warned
again of attacks in the Republic.

The breakaway group, which has been linked to several murders in Northern
Ireland and attempted bomb attacks in the Republic, described the Dublin
government as the "greatest evil" in the peace process.

In a statement accompanied by a recognised codeword, the LVF warned that it
would "remain in place" until Dublin ends its invovement in Northern Ireland
affairs.

The statement followed reports that the group was considering calling a
ceasefire - similar to the one declared by the Combined Loyalist Military
Command in October 1994 - in response to the IRA cessation.

The group warned that the Republic would pay "a heavy price" unless it complied
with their demands, and called on unionists to avoid talks with Sinn Fein.

The statement said: "Contrary to reports . . . last week that the LVF was
contemplating calling a ceasefire, the LVF, after consultation with its ruling
army council said it will not be in the interests of the Protestant people in
Northern Ireland to call a ceasefire in any shape or form.

"The people of Northern Ireland have been unprotected from republican attacks
for the last two years.

"The Protestant people must realise now this is another ploy ceasefire and a
final push by the republican movement and the Irish government to bring the
Union down the road to a united Ireland.

"The Protestant people have been the ones who have given everything to achieve
peace and have received nothing in return.

"It is plain to see that the biggest evil of all of this is the Irish
government. They are the ones who hold an illegal claim to the six counties of
Ulster.

"It is plain to see, now more than ever, the pan nationalist front is in full
swing.

"The LVF has stated in the past the Irish government will pay a heavy price for
interfering in the internal affairs of Northern Ireland.

"The LVF will remain in place until Dublin removes itself from Stormont and the
Irish government drops Articles Two and Three of their constitution.

"The LVF would like to call on all true loyalist and true unionists not to sit
down in September with Sinn Fein-IRA. No right- thinking person could sit down
and talk to people who wield out death and destruction."


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1997 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              19 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            August 2, 1997, Saturday

TERROR GROUP KEEPS UP ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 154 words


The Continuity Army Council is so named because its members believe they are the
true representatives of the IRA.

The dissident republican terror group showed the full extent of its lethal
capability last July when, at the height of the marching season, one of its
bombs ripped apart the Killyhevlin Hotel in Enniskillen, less than five miles
from the Carrybridge.

Although Republican Sinn Fein, which split from Gerry Adams' party in 1986, has
denied any link to the CAC, security chiefs on both sides of the border are in
no doubt the two are connected.

The CAC was blamed for a number of car bombings at the end of last year.

During the 1994 ceasefire one of its members was caught transporting 1,000lb of
explosives over the border into the Eire, and was jailed 10 years.

The group was outlawed by the Secretary of State Mo Mowlam in June this year,
along with the Loyalist Volunteer Force.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              20 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             August 3, 1997, Sunday

CRISIS TALKS AS JUNKIE ATTACKS ON CA'BS SOAR;
JUNKIES TERRORISE DUBLIN TAXI DRIVERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 414 words


Crazed junkies are terrorising Dublin taxi drivers with a spate of drug -related
attacks.

Some drivers are so afraid of the syringe-wielding thugs they have fitted their
cabs with metal cages.

Representatives of the city's 2,000 cabbies are to meet police chiefs this week
to demand protection.

They claim attacks are running at the rate of two every night.

"We have had some horrific cases of brutal theft," said Tomy Gorman, secretary
of the National Taxi Drivers' Union. Some amounted to attempted murder.

"One nutter jumped into the front seat of a cab, pinned down the driver and bit
his face and arms. The driver looked like he'd been mauled by a lion."

Mr Gorman said they were also hoping for a meeting with Justice Minister John
O'Donoghue.

"We are not happy with the back-up we are getting from police. I think
complacency is setting in and they are saying, 'Ah, it's just another taxi
attack'."

Mr Gorman claimed Dublin's drug scene was escalating daily and cabbies were now
building cages around their driving seats.

"Some addicts need pounds 1,000 a week to feed their habit. Even if you don't
have money they still beat you up."

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              21 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 6, 1997

DISOWNED IN DEATH, AN OUTSIDER IN THE PROMISED LAND;
As Islamic militant groups threaten further terrorist attacks on Israeli
targets, JULIAN BORGER reports from Jerusalem on a case which exposes one more
division in this most riven of societies - the struggle of immigrants to bury
their son, abombing victim

BYLINE: Julian Borger

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1320 words


GRISHA Pesahovic was buried as he had lived for two unhappy years in Israel - as
an outsider.

He was a shy, 15-year-old Russian immigrant who had been struggling to fit in.
Last Wednesday afternoon he was on his own as usual, wandering through crowds of
shoppers in Jerusalem's main Jewish market at the moment two suicide bombers
chose to strike.

Grisha was killed because he lived among Jews in the divided city, but in death
he was disowned. His corpse was turned away from a Jewish cemetery because
Grisha's mother was not a Jew. It was taken to a nearby Greek Orthodox church
but priests there would not bury him without Christian prayers.

For four days, Grisha's parents were unable to bury their son. At one moment of
desperate grief in the Orthodox graveyard, his father, Yevgeny, cried: "Give me
a spade and a plot of land, and let me bury him alone. I don't care where."

The boy was finally put to rest on Sunday in a remote corner of the Mount of
Olives in a small plot tended by devotees of a faith the Pesahovic's had never
heard of - the Baha'is. Rick Miller, the sect's representative in Jerusalem,
said he found nothing in Baha'i teaching which would prevent Grisha's burial.
The creed encourages spiritual unity and the "advancement of civilisation".

This miserable post-script to the Jerusalem market bombing has caused uproar in
Israel. The prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, visited Grisha's parents
yesterday to pay his condolences, and Yuli Edelstein, the minister for the
absorption of new immigrants, called for a change in the law to allow secular
burials.

The Pesahovics were like tens of thousands of new immigrants to Israel who
considered themselves Jewish, were discriminated against as Jews in their
homelands, and who were granted Israeli citizenship on the grounds of having a
Jewish grandparent.

But in Israel, such immigrants have since found themselves excluded because the
rabbinical definition of who is a Jew is far stricter.

"It's okay for them to come to Israel, to go to fight in the army and to die,
but it's not okay to bury them," complained Zamira Segev, the head of a secular
pressure group, Khemdat. "It is inconceivable an enlightened country on the
verge of the 21st century cannot find an honourable solution for all its
citizens."

Grisha had arrived in Israel from Yekaterinburg two years ago with his mother,
Olga. His parents were divorced and his father came later. Grisha was plunged
into Hebrew school and the process of assimilation, but although he was a good
student, he had not mastered Hebrew and did not mix with the native Israelis
around him.

"Grisha was a very quiet private sort of kid. He liked to read a lot and play
the guitar, but he was a loner," said Rabbi Tzvi Wolff, who had helped with the
family's immigration. Things had been looking up, however. He was to be
transferred to a new school. "He began to get into things more and more," said
the rabbi.

When it became clear Grisha could not be buried as a Jew, Israeli civil servants
told his parents it was possible to arrange a non-denominational burial in the
Greek Orthodox cemetery, but it appears no one told the priests.

"We carried the coffin into the graveyard, and the priest said 'we'll bring it
into church', which I thought was odd," recalled Rabbi Wolff. "That's when the
whole thing became clear. The parents said 'we're not Christians'. The priest
was kind and understanding but said it was a Christian graveyard."

Olga broke down and cried: "He lived as a Jew in the land of Israel. My son
Grisha was not a Christian. I am not ready to let him be buried as a Christian."

There were not enough mourners to carry the coffin back out of the cemetery, so
the help of policemen and local taxi drivers was enlisted. Grisha's body was
returned to the mortuary refrigerator for the duration of the Sabbath.

When he heard the story, Mr Edelstein, a Russian immigrant himself, rushed to
the scene and started calling around on his mobile phone in search of
alternatives.

"Imagine how a minister of the state of Israel must feel when he has to sit in
his car in a parking lot, while the corpse of a terror victim is being held in
the hospital, and you have to find someone who'll do you a favour and bury the
body," Mr Edelstein said.

When Grisha's coffin was finally lowered into the ground in a quiet ceremony on
Sunday, Rabbi Wolff said the prayers and Khanania Shakhor, from the Jewish
Burial Society, gave a final oration.

Looking into the open grave, Mr Shakhor said: "In the name of all those involved
in your funeral, please forgive us."

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              22 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 8, 1997

AVON LADY RELIVES KNIFE ATTACK TERROR;
Verdict of accidental death on 'mild mannered' neighbour who died in attempted
rape. 'We will never know what was going through his mind'

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 960 words


AN AVON Lady yesterday relived the moments when a neighbour attacked her with a
flick knife and attempted to rape her before he fell fatally wounded as they
struggled in her home.

Wendy Hertz, a mother of two, sat yards from David Stuchbery's widow Linda, a
headmistress, as coroner Brian Smith recorded a verdict of accidental death at
the Folkestone inquest.

Mr Stuchbery, aged 49, described as a mild-mannered cleaner who worked for
Eurotunnel, had followed Mrs Hertz into her home in the village of Densole,
Kent, on February 4. She thought he wanted to buy cosmetics or aftershave, but
he held a knife to her neck.

Mrs Hertz said she asked him what he was doing. He stared into her eyes and
"slowly and mechanically" replied: "I don't know."

"His eyes were wide. His expression was stony-faced. I couldn't believe what was
happening."

She tried to fight him off in the hallway as Stuchbery pushed her into a recess
and put his fingers into her mouth. She felt that her hand had been cut with the
flick knife Stuchbery was carrying.  "I said 'Look at my hand' and he appeared
to laugh," Mrs Hertz added. Stuchbery threw her on to the stairs and grabbed at
her clothes.

Mrs Hertz saw the knife lying on the floor as he tried to pull down her
trousers. "The handle was in my hand," she said.  "I couldn't grip the knife
properly. My hand was covered in blood. I don't know how I lost grip of the
knife."

The next thing she remembered was him standing over her with the knife saying,
"You're going to get it, you're going to get it", the inquest heard.

Mrs Hertz, 34 at the time of the attack, said she tried to kick him in the groin
to get to the door - but she could not say what happened afterwards.

"The next thing I was aware of, he was lying face down half-in and half-out of
the inner hallway. He wasn't moving." She thought she saw him stirring and
grabbed a bottle by the front door.

"This was my only chance of escape. I hit him with the bottle on the back of the
head." Mrs Hertz, a mother of two, ran to a neighbour's house. Police found
Stuchbery dead in her hallway from a chest wound; an artery had been severed.

Earlier Mrs Stuchbery told the inquest that she was mystified by the attack.
She had been married to him for 20 years.

But a workmate at Eurotunnel, Joannes Essen, said he knew something was wrong in
the run-up to the attack. "At times I was almost afraid of him. There was
something I couldn't put a finger on," Mr Essen said.

Recording a verdict of accidental death, Mr Smith said: "We shall never know
what was going through his mind. Nobody deserves to die."

It was unclear whether Mrs Hertz had inflicted the fatal wound or whether Mr
Stuchbery had committed suicide, Mr Smith said.

Detective Inspector Alan Scott, who led the inquiry, added: "I think it was a
very fair verdict. There was no direct evidence that Wendy Hertz had inflicted
the fatal blow." There was no doubt in his mind that Mr Stuchbery had intended
to carry out a serious sexual assault.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              23 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 August 8, 1997

Reign of sex terror ended by girlfriend.  ;Attacker confesses

BYLINE: By Alison Hardie

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 651 words


THE four-year hunt for a notorious Scottish sex attacker came to an end
yesterday when a man admitted the assaults after his girlfriend went to the
police.

Last night in an exclusive interview with The Herald Susan Jeffrey spoke of her
courageous decision.

Grant McCaskill had earlier appeared in court to plead guilty to a series of sex
charges. It closed a terrifying chapter in the life of students and young women
in Glasgow's West End.

Speaking exclusively to The Herald, Miss Jeffrey said: "It was the hardest thing
I have ever had to do because I really did love Grant. But it was the right
thing.

"He lied to me so much. I never thought the man I was going to marry, whose
babies I was going to have, could do such terrible things.

"In the end he hurt me too, but I have stopped other women being harmed. It has
been worthwhile, but I don't think I'll ever get over knowing that I lived with
such an animal."

McCaskill, 26, admitted six charges of indecent assault on women and two of
being a peeping tom after the Crown dropped nine other charges.

When he appeared at the High Court in Glasgow it was revealed he had been
arrested by Strathclyde Police five months before being charged with the sex
offences in the West End.

Despite criticism of the police's actions, the man in charge of the hunt,
Detective Inspector Bob Rae defended the decision.

He said: "McCaskill was arrested for being a peeping tom and at that time we did
question him about the attacks in the West End, but he was not admitting to
anything.

"We had no evidence to charge him then and we had to let him go. It was only
after we spoke to Susan that we got what we needed to charge him. It was
frustrating, but we were bound by the law."

Advocate depute Mr Alan Turnbull, QC, told the court McCaskill was found perched
on a first floor window ledge peering at two young women undressing in a
bathroom. Although he was a convicted sex offender - he served nine months for
an indecent assault in 1990 - he was allowed to go.

McCaskill had lived in Caledonia Road, Gorbals, before living on-and-off with
Miss Jeffrey at Sorby Street, Parkhead, both Glasgow.

Mr Turnbull said that on May 17, l993, McCaskill burst into a bedsit in
Southpark Avenue, Glasgow, and threatened a 22-year-old woman with violence
before assaulting her in her bedroom.

During the assault, the woman screamed and struggled and McCaskill finally ran
out of the house.

A 36-year-old woman living in a bedsit at Hillhead Street was attacked in her
bedroom on Boxing Day, 1995 by McCaskill when he put his hand over her mouth and
fondled her. She managed to flee to the bathroom with her cordless telephone and
summon help.

McCaskill left his fingerprints on a mug.

A 20-year-old student was attacked on the stairs of her flat in Ruskin Place on
February 18, l996, when McCaskill pushed her to the ground, and indecently
assaulted her before running away.

A 25-year-old barmaid was attacked at the door of her close as she returned home
from work at 3am in Great Western Road, on August 22, l996. The woman managed to
press the security buzzer on the door. When it opened she screamed and McCaskill
ran away.

Another 25-year-old woman, a student with a job in a night club, was attacked in
her close on August 25, l996, in Arlington Street, when McCaskill threatened to
kill her and punched her on the nose.

A 19-year-old female student was attacked on December 2, l996, in Lilybank
Gardens after she had a row with her boyfriend.

McCaskill saw her crying and approached her, but when she walked on he pushed
her against a wall and she ended up sitting on top of it. He indecently
assaulted her and threatened to push her to the ground 15ft below.

Lord Cameron deferred sentence until August 28, for psychiatric reports on
McCaskill at the High Court in Edinburgh.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Grant McCaskill: admitted six charges of indecent assault

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              24 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           August 13, 1997, Wednesday

TERROR ATTACK ON DOLE SPIES;
ARMED MEN TERRORISE UNDERCOVER DOLE SPIES ON TOUGH BELFAST ESTATE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 105 words


Two undercover dole spies were terrorised by armed gunman who rumbled them
looking for benefit cheats in a housing estate.

The social security officials - both women in their 30s - were dragged from
their car and warned to stay out of the tough North Belfast housing estate by
the sinister gang.

The masked and armed mob then fired shots into the car and smashed all its
windows with baseball bats as the terrified women fled on foot.

The women were treated in hospital before being allowed home last night.

Social security minister Tony Worthington condemned the vicious attack as
"sickening thuggery".

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ;

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              25 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           August 14, 1997, Thursday

MUM'S AIDS TERROR;
Fears after jab attack;
Young mum Sarah Whitecross who was jabbed in the neck endured three months of
AIDS anguish

SECTION: Page 19

LENGTH: 200 words


A young mum who was jabbed in the neck endured three months of AIDS anguish.

Sarah Whitecross wept as she told how junkie Mary Fraser claimed to have a
needle.

She said: "She had seemed friendly and kept walking beside me and I just thought
she wanted to talk.

"But she put her arm around my neck and pricked me."

Sarah, 23, had been walking home with her toddler and a baby in a pram when
Fraser attacked her.

Doctors later found two punctures behind her ear.

The horrifying assault left her needing counselling and afraid to go out of the
house alone.

She told Edinburgh Sheriff Court that she had to wait three months before being
told she was not infected with the HIV virus.

Fraser, 23, of West Pilton Rise, Edinburgh, denied intentionally stabbing Sarah,
and claimed she had her keys in her hand and not a needle.

She was in tears as she told the court: "I definitely did not have a needle.

"I am terrified of needles. My cousin died after using a needle to take drugs."

Her defence agent, John Scott, said Fraser had a drug problem and two previous
convictions for assault and shoplifting.

She was sentenced to two years' probation and 150 hours of community service.


LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              26 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                                August 17, 1997

CONNERY CAR HIT IN BRICK ATTACK;
Star's terror as windscreen is shattered

BYLINE: Chester Stern

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 371 words


A MINDLESS act of vandalism brought terror to superstar Sean Connery yesterday
when his Range Rover was bombed with a brick from a road bridge.

Connery, 66, was driving himself home to Central London from Shepperton Studios,
in Surrey, after filming for his new movie, The Avengers.

The brick hit the four-wheel drive car inches from Connery's face, denting the
roof and shattering the windscreen.

Specially strengthened, it did not splinter and he was able to continue his
journey in the P-registration burgundy Range Rover.

An associate said: 'Sean was shaken up. We are still trying to establish exactly
what happened. He is not feeling very well at the moment - he also has a stomach
problem.' The incident occurred in the early afternoon on the A316 Great
Chertsey Road. Connery left the studios earlier than expected, suffering the
effects of the stomach complaint. The film's production team offered him a
chauffeur-driven car home, but he declined.

Last night a shocked Connery, who made his name as suave secret agent James
Bond, was confined to bed and could not take calls about the incident.

He is not thought to have reported it to the police. The vehicle was repaired
outside his home in Eaton Square, Belgravia, by an emergency windscreen repair
contractor.

An Avengers source said the actor was 'totally exhausted' after intensive
filming of storm scenes in which he has to stand for long periods in the rain.

Connery plays the villain in the film, which is based on the Sixties television
series and also stars Ralph Fiennes as John Steed and Uma Thurman as Emma Peel.

With a fortune estimated to be worth about $50 million, Connery - a former
Edinburgh milkman - lives as a tax exile in Spain and also has a Bahamas home.

The road incident highlights the growing problem of vandalism which is plaguing
motorways and putting the lives of motorists at risk.

Just three weeks ago three sleeping children escaped injury when youths hurled
concrete blocks on to a motorway in Shropshire.

In April British teenager Ross Jelf suffered a fractured skull when a 14lb chunk
of concrete, thrown from a motorway bridge, crashed through the roof of his
coach in Belgium.


LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MOMENT OF MADNESS: THE BRICK HIT THE WINDSCREEN OF THE RANGE ROVER JUST
INCHES FROM SEAN CONNERY'S FACE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              27 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                            August 17, 1997, Sunday

KIDS DIE IN TERROR ATTACK;
15 people killed in the latest attack on civilians by Algeria's Moslem
guerrillas

SECTION: Page 29

LENGTH: 59 words


Six children aged from six months to three years were among 15 people killed in
the latest attack on civilians by Algeria's Moslem guerrillas.

The massacre brings the number of civilians killed in the country in the last
month to 440.

More than 60,000 have died since 1992 when an election in which radical
Islamists had taken a lead was cancelled.


LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              28 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                August 19, 1997

GIRLS IN TERROR ATTACK ON OAP

SECTION: Pg.4

LENGTH: 272 words


DETECTIVES were today hunting a gang of three girls who left an 83-year- old
woman suffering from ''psychological trauma'' after terrorising her in her home.

The mini-skirted girls, aged between 11 and 15, cut off Rosie Howes' hair and
poured pepper and dye over her head during a five-hour ordeal.

They then smeared make-up over the terrified woman's face before burgling her
home, Scotland Yard said.

Detective Inspector Denis Clark said it was essential to find the girls before
they struck again.

The girls, all wearing short vests, had befriended the woman and she let them
into her council flat in Brentford, west London, on Sunday afternoon.

Mr Clark said the pensioner was not badly hurt in the attack, but he added:
''This is a very callous, wicked offence. Clearly we're anxious in case it
should happen again.''

He said Mrs Howes was ''extremely distressed'' and was being looked after by
social services. But he denied police had a ''substantial problem'' with girl
gangs.

Mrs Howes, who was found by a male friend in his 70s, was taken to hospital for
a check-up and was later released into the care of social services.

Police believe the girls, who are thought to come from Brentford, Hounslow or
Ealing, may have struck at the flat before to steal cash and valuables.

Neighbours have told how the ageing Mrs Howes was vulnerable to attack because
of her infirmity and would let people into her flat.

Another pensioner living in the same road said she had seen a big increase in
problems in the area recently.

Edith Jones, 78, said: ''This is a terrible thing to happen."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1997 Bristol United Press

                              29 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 19, 1997, Tuesday

GIRLS ATTACK WOMAN, 83;
WOMAN, 83 TERRORISED BY GIRL THUGS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 75 words


Three girls terrorised a woman of 83 by cutting off her hair and pouring pepper
and dye over her head in a five-hour ordeal.

The thugs, aged between 11 and 15, then smeared make-up over the terrified
victim's face before burgling her home.

The woman, who was taken to hospital for a check-up, is thought to have let the
girls into her flat in Brentford, west London, after they chatted to her. Police
believe they have struck before.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              30 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           August 28, 1997, Thursday

ATTACK FUELS RUMOURS OF A LOYALIST TERROR FEUD;
          FORMER PARAMILITARY MAY HAVE BEEN TARGETED FOR SPEAKING UP FOR LVF

BYLINE: Donna Carton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 549 words


Former loyalist paramilitary turned Christian, Pastor Kenny McClinton, said he
may have been targeted by mainstream loyalists because he has spoken up for the
breakaway LVF.

He spoke out after a gunman opened fire on his Belfast home in the early hours
of yesterda morning, narrowly missing him as he sat watching TV.

His seven-month pregnant wife Wendy had just left the room moments before the
murder bid.

The attack has fuelled speculation that a full scale feud is underway between
the UVF and the dissident LVF, who refuse to endorse the loyalist ceasefire.

Mr McClinton, who has served 16 years of two life sentences, acted as a mediator
in the violent Maze dispute a few weeks ago when LVF prisoners went on the
rampage in protest at what they claimed was discriminatory treatment by prison
authorities.

The former UFF commander, who renounced violence in 1979, was watching
television at around 12.15am when shots were fired through the living room
window of his Shankill home.

He said: "It was only by the grace of God I wasn't killed.

"This wasn't scare tactics - the gunman was standing right behind the window and
the pellets lodged into the settee where I was sitting. My wife, who is eight
months pregnant, had only just left the room.

"There were bits of lead in my shirt.

"It's anybody's guess who did this, but I have spoken out as a confirmed
loyalist and I have spoken out on behalf of those no one wants to speak for such
as the LVF.

"This was the work of people who want to monopolise the loyalist community."

No organisation has claimed responsibility for the attack and the UVF linked
Progressive Unionist Party spokesman David Ervine said he "deplored" the
incident.

He said: "We only hope that it is nothing remotely close to the CLMC.  It is a
deplorable act and should not have happened. Those involved should desist."

The shooting comes just days after Mr Ervine's party colleague Billy Hutchinson
warned that the UVF was planning to "wipe out" the LVF and said his party should
no longer advise the loyalist terror group to hold fire because loyalists had
gained nothing from their ceasefire.

He sought an urgent meeting with Mr Ervine to discuss the forthcoming Stormont
talks process.

There was condemnation of the attempt on Mr McClinton's life from politicians
and others yesterday.

DUP justice spokesman Ian Paisley Jr described it as "outrageous" and "it is
imperative that it is condemned by all right thinking people."

Former West Belfast MP Joe Hendron also condemned it and said: "I am aware of
the work which Mr McClinton has been carrying out for some years to build on the
peace process."

Human rights group Families Against Intimidation and Terror called on all
paramilitary forces and their supporters to cease violence and "give the
community what it wants, a permanent cessation of violence."

The Elim Churches in Ireland said the attack was "yet another clear message to
the Government that there is no place for those who not only hold guns but are
also presently using them at the talks table.

"It is further evidence that when paramilitaries fail to accept the views and
opinions of others that they not only intimidate but have no scruples in
attempting to take life."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LUCKY TO BE ALIVE: Pastor Kenny McClinton

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              31 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 10, 1997, Wednesday

HATE MOB HELL OF COUPLE IN ABORTION ROW;
TERROR TRAIL: Attackers raid house and nick Lynne's singing gear;
James and Lynne Kelly who were at the centre of a bitter abortion row that made
legal history have been targeted by hate campaigners

BYLINE: Ray Notarangelo Exclusive

SECTION: Page 15

LENGTH: 304 words


The couple at the centre of a bitter abortion row that made legal history have
been targeted by hate campaigners.

James and Lynne Kelly's house has been raided and their car broken into, with
speakers used in her cabaret act stolen.

Yesterday, vandals smashed up James's van.

Lynne fears the incidents are part of a vendetta by people unhappy that James
has moved back in with her.

She said: "All I can think of is that locals round here have a gripe about us.

"But if they think they can chase me out my house, they had better think again."

Earlier this year, James, 28, started a high-profile court battle to stop Lynne
having an abortion.

Lynne, who has a 19-month-old daughter Hazel, had the abortion after James
abandoned his fight.

But there was fury from neighbours in Fraser Avenue, Inverkeithing, Fife, when
it was revealed James was back with Lynne.

Lynne, 21, said: "We've told the police, but they weren't too confident about
being able to catch the people involved.

"But if it carries on, hopefully, other people in the street will intervene and
report them."

The thieves also tried to steal the rest of Lynne's singing gear, including her
irreplaceable backing tapes, but were thwarted by the boot lock.

Lynne said: "I think someone had been trying to get into the boot and stole the
speakers out of spite.

"It's widely known round here that I do singing and have this gear. But they
will have a hard job flogging them on because they are so distinctive."

Now Lynne, 21, who has been singing all over the country since the court case,
has to find a new pair of speakers before her next gig.

Although Lynne and James are both in the house they claim they are NOT living as
man and wife.

She said: "There has been no reconciliation and we are still talking things
through."


LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              32 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 11, 1997

Albright goes into terror summit on attack

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 191 words


U.S. SECRETARY of State Madeleine Albright is heading for a showdown with the
Palestinians after backing Israeli demands for a crackdown on terrorism.

Tough statements at the start of her first Middle East tour brought charges of
bias from Palestinians and suggested her meeting with Yasser Arafat in Gaza
today will be tense.

After visiting victims of last week's bombings in Jerusalem she said there was
'no moral equivalent' between killing people and building houses' - a rejection
of Palestinian demands that if they crack down on terrorism, Israel should
freeze building in disputed areas to restart peace talks.

Despite appealing to the Israelis to 'refrain from actions that undermine
confidence' she urged Arafat to take 'sustained action' over terrorism.

Palestinian cabinet minister Professor Hanan Ashrawi said Mrs Albright had
displayed 'a wholeheartedly one-sided approach'.

Her comments were also rejected by Arafat adviser Dr Achmed Tibi, who claimed
last week's bombings, in which five were killed and 170 injured, were the work
of foreigners - which is likely to be the line his leader will take today.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              33 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                         September 17, 1997, Wednesday

A MOTHER DRIVEN BY GRIEF;
          LIFE TIMES; THE PHYSICAL PAIN OF LOSING HER SON IN AN IRA TERRORIST
ATTACK IN FEBRUARY PAST IS ONLY NOW BEGINNING TO EASE FOR RITA RESTORICK WHO WAS
IN BELFAST ON MONDAY TO HOLD A VIGIL OF SUPPORT FOR THE PEACE TALKS. SANDRA
CHAPMAN MET HER AT STORMONT.

BYLINE: Sandra Chapman

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 687 words


Like every other mother who has lost a loved one in the Troubles, Rita
Restorick's life changed forever the night the IRA murdered her son Stephen at
Bessbrook.

His regiment was not due to come to the province until April of this year.
Instead, after Drumcree last year, it was drafted in during October and less
than six months later, at only 23, he was to become another statistic, shot in
the head at a checkpoint as he talked to a local woman Lorraine McElroy.

Returning here, one suspects, is part of his mother's grieving process; she
doesn't want her adored son to have died in vain. Coming at this time, when the
talks are limping to some kind of start, gives her life added purpose and
mothers everywhere will admire her strength and identify with her grief.

Rita Restorick, from Peterborough, is a quietly spoken, typical English woman
trying desperately to understand us. Since Stephen's death she says she has read
as many books on Northern Ireland as she can find: "I don't think I'll ever
fully understand the situation here but then I suspect lots of people here don't
understand it either."

She sees herself as being some kind of symbol for other mothers like her who
have lost soldier sons in this conflict: "They've all suffered like me. I've
read about them in the past never dreaming that one day it would be me."

The tragedy for the Restoricks hasn't just stopped with Stephen's death.  They
now face losing their second son Mark 27.

Stephen's older brother is a storeman at a local hospital and has found it
difficult to come to terms with his death. Says Rita: "The two were quite close
although they were quite different personalities and now all Mark has left is me
and his dad. This has changed his life and left him questioning so much. He
needs to know how to move forward and get some meaning back in his life so he's
talking about going to stay with some distant relatives in America and Canada."

Stephen's father, an engineering technician at Nottingham University has locked
his grief inside. Rita says he finds it very difficult to talk about it.

Her own career as a secretary has ended too: "I've been on sick leave since
Stephen was killed and have not been able to return to work," she says. "My job
was a fairly mundane one and I just felt I couldn't go back to it. My life has
to have some more purpose than that."

Over the months her days have been spent writing to politicians. She wrote to
many of them during the time of the Drumcree crisis last year: "That crisis was
the reason why Stephen's regiment was drafted in earlier than it would have
been," she says.

Rita was particularly close to Stephen. As a little boy he loved plenty of
cuddles and she looked forward each weekend to his visits home from his camp in
Yorkshire. The house was full of his laughter and his friends, and she had every
reason to hope that one day he would marry and make her a grandmother.

She admits to still feeling angry sometimes that he is not around anymore
although she seems unwilling to direct her anger against those who took her son
away from her. She says: "I never felt the need to channel that anger at
specific sections of the community because you have all suffered in different
ways."

But she feels we should question our will to seek peace. "The Troubles have been
going on so long people seem to doubt there is a solution. I just hope this
isn't the case. It is so important that these talks succeed."

On Monday she began her vigil undeterred by high winds and driving rain.  As the
weather improved other women joined her, in particular the Women Together
movement. She hadn't built up her hopes that many people would be there but then
no other murdered soldier's mother has returned to the province from England to
persuade the politicians to keep talking.

Television crews from other parts of the world who had been at Stormont for the
start of the talks gravitated towards her, grateful for the opportunity to give
a grieving mother's point of view. It seemed a fitting balance to a day laden
with posturing and triumphalism.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RITA RESTORICK: channelling her grief into positive action to help
drive the peace process forward;; MURDERED: Rita's son Stephen

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              34 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          September 18, 1997, Thursday

TOWN TURNS OUT TO SHOW DEFIANCE TO THE BOMBERS;
          AS POLITICIANS WEIGH UP IMPLICATIONS OF TERRORIST ATTACK THE PEOPLE OF
BATTERED MARKETHILL WORK ROUND THE CLOCK TO PICK UP THE PIECES

BYLINE: Jackie Mckeown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2, 3

LENGTH: 429 words


The farming community of Markethill worked round the clock yesterday in a
determined bid to beat the bombers who wrecked their mart.

Entire families pitched in, dismantling the twisted remains of livestock stalls,
collecting far-flung debris and securing walls ripped wide open by the force of
the blast.

The response, co-owner Greer Robinson said, was fantastic.

But neither was it surprising in a town which is well used to picking up the
pieces left by republican bombers.

"There was a lot of damage to cladding, the roof and the end where the calves
are sold, which we had to get up and running as soon as possible," said Mr
Robinson.

"But we've had a very good response and a lot of people came in and worked to
midnight and started again at 6am to make sure the sheep sale went ahead.

"And we've had a good show of sheep here today. It's not as many as usual but a
lot of people have made the effort to come."

Mr Robinson, who only received compensation in June from the August 1991
bombing, said three cattle had to be slaughtered yesterday as a result of
injuries sustained in the blast.

And he added that while his friends and customers are determined to rebuild
their town, they feel disheartened they have to face the task yet again.

"They're determined to go on and try to live a normal life but they're
disheartened that this has happened at a time when there's peace talks," he
said.

"A lot wonder why it was in our town again but we just have to struggle on as
best we can."

Mr Robinson refused to comment on those responsible for the attack, unlike many
farmers at the sale who had no doubt the IRA was to blame despite the
organisation's denial.

Mervyn Ross was scathing about reports that a republican splinter group, the
so-called Continuity Army Council, was behind the 400lb van bomb attack.

"Any right-thinking person knows exactly who did it. It doesn't take a
mastermind to work it out when you look at where Markethill is located."

Mr Ross, who was among the farmers evacuated on Tuesday, said "worthless jail
sentences" were largely to blame for the continued Troubles.

"If I go into a field and dig out a thistle, it stays out. It's no good just
snipping the top off it," he said.

Chemist David Bingham, like the majority of shopkeepers, was more interested in
getting back to business than speculating about blame.

Yesterday he was busy sorting out stock in his devastated pharmacy.

"Markethill has been through it before and always bounced back. This time will
be no different."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CLEARING UP: work begins on getting Markethill back to normal after the
bomb

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              35 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 19, 1997, Friday

TEN DEAD, 24 HURT IN CAIRO BUS SLAUGHTER;
Ten people killed in terrorist attack on bus in Cairo

BYLINE: Mark Dowdney

SECTION: Page 11

LENGTH: 229 words


British tourists ran for cover yesterday as terrorists attacked a bus in Cairo,
killing 10 people.

Another 24 were wounded as the Islamic fanatics riddled other buses with
bullets.

Egyptian police fought a 35-minute gun battle with the gang before making three
arrests.

One of the men, Saber Farahat Abu el-Ela, had escaped from a mental hospital
where he was being held after killing three foreigners in 1993.

Ela's brother Mahmoud was also arrested after the attack. Security sources said
two men later escaped, and the third gunman was shot in the head.

The horror began as tour buses gathered outside the Egyptian national museum,
which houses priceless relics including the treasures of Tutenkhamun. A
terrorist clambered aboard a bus packed with German tourists and started
spraying the interior with gunfire.

When he saw tourists escaping through a rear exit, he threw in a petrol bomb
then ran out and put a second bomb under the bus.

It is thought the gunmen were Moslem militants, who have been seeking to topple
the government since 1992.

British holiday firm Thomson's suspended trips to Cairo as the massacre sent
shock waves through Egypt's tourist industry.

Rivals Thomas Cook offered alternative holidays or refunds to booked-up clients.

Last night, the Foreign Office repeated its advice that "security cannot be
guaranteed" in Egypt.


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              36 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 19, 1997, Friday

Egypt: Is it safe to travel along the Nile? If you're careful; Yesterday's
terrorist attack in Cairo was the latest example oftourists being used as pawns
in wider political struggles. While Britishtour operators are still sending
holidaymakers to Egypt, there is evidence that campaigns to scare off visitors
are working. Simon Calder, Travel Editor, reports.

BYLINE: Simon Calder, Travel Editor,

SECTION: NEWS; Page  14

LENGTH: 525 words


The timing was telling. Just as news was emerging of the attack by Islamic
militants on a tourist bus outside the Egyptian Museum in central Cairo, the
latest "Autumn Specials" brochure arrived on my desk from the tour operator
Hayes and Jarvis. It revealed special deals such as holidays in Egypt for under
pounds 250, and a week in Cuba for only pounds 389.  As the fashion for placing
tourists in the frontline of political struggles spreads, demand for
destinations such as these is dwindling.

To gauge the impact that yesterday's attack will have on Egypt's tourism
industry, imagine a bomb exploding on a coach full of visitors outside the
British Museum.

The economic consequences for Egypt will be serious. The campaign by Islamic
fundamentalists against foreign visitors began in 1992, and until yesterday had
killed 26. Since the most serious attack last April, in which 18 Greek tourists
were shot dead outside their hotel, the security forces in Egypt had enjoyed
some success in stifling the campaign. Yesterday's atrocity is certain to lead
to widespread holiday cancellations.

The Foreign Office updated its travel advice for Egypt shortly after the attack.
It points out that 320,000 British people visited the country last year, but
says, "The latest attack shows security cannot be guaranteed." It stops short of
warning British travellers against visiting Egypt - a move which would lead
holiday companies to suspend all operations there.

The tour operator Kuoni, which has 280 clients in Cairo at present, has offered
them the option to move to Luxor or to return to the UK. Thomas Cook Holidays
has given customers booked to travel within the next week the chance to cancel
without penalty.

In the longer term, travel companies' programmes will be trimmed back, and extra
security provided for organised groups. American tourists, whose numbers fell
steeply during and after the Gulf war, are likely to be further disinclined to
visit.

Backpackers, who use local transport and stay in low-budget accommodation, have
so far avoided being targeted by the terrorists. Evidence from war- torn
countries such as Sri Lanka suggests that few will be deterred from visiting
Egypt.

The broader danger is that more terrorist groups around the world will latch on
to targeting tourists. The fashion began in the mid-1980s when the Maoist
Shining Path guerrillas of Peru declared they would attack visitors. Peru's
visitor numbers have still not recovered.

In Cuba, tourism has proved remarkably successful in shoring up an economy hit
by the ending of Soviet subsidies and the US blockade. But the industry has been
threatened by a series of bomb attacks on hotels in Havana.  The most recent
killed an Italian tourist.

While Cuban officials blame anti-Castro exiles in Miami for the campaign, travel
companies are busily cutting prices. The grisly pattern will be repeated in
Egypt: after carnage, cheap holidays are bound to follow.

Foreign Office Travel Advice Unit: 0171-238 4503, or fax 0171-238 4545; on the
Internet, at http://www.fco.gov.uk/ or on BBC2 Ceefax from page 470.


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              37 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 19, 1997, Friday

THOMSONS STOP EGYPT HOLS AFTER BOMB KILLS TEN ON BUS;
THOMSONS HALT ALL TRIPS TO CAIRO AFTER TERRORISTS ATTACK TOUR BUS

BYLINE: Mark Dowdney, Foreign Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 219 words


Holiday giant Thomsons halted all trips to Cairo yesterday after terrorists
attacked a tour bus, killing 10 people.

The over-50s holiday firm Saga also cancelled trips to the Egyptian capital.

Eight German tourists, the bus driver and another person, believed to be a
courier, died and 19 were injured in the attack.

Islamic fanatics opened fire inside the bus - and as terrified passengers tried
to escape through a rear door, one terrorist threw a petrol bomb, then exploded
another under the bus.

Police arrested three men after a half hour gun battle but two others fled.

One arrested man - Saber Farahat Abu el-Ela - had escaped from a mental
hospital, where he was held after shooting dead three tourists at a Cairo hotel
in 1993.

His brother Mahmoud is also under arrest.

A Thomson spokeswoman said: "We wouldn't be happy sending anyone to Cairo at the
moment.

"Hopefully this is a temporary measure."

Rival Thomas Cook decided not to cancel trips but said worried clients could
take refunds or choose other destinations.

Hundreds of tourists were outside the Egyptian national museum when the gunmen
struck.

Briton Steven Potson said: "We heard bombs and ran inside."

Fellow Brit Stephen Thomas, who was with his family, said: "The whole place was
in panic."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AFTERMATH: Egyptian soldiers patrol in front of the burned-out tour bus
in which 10 people were killed;; ARREST: Mahmoud;; ESCAPER: Saber

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              38 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 20, 1997, Saturday

EGYPT BRITS DEFY TERROR;
BRITISH TOURISTS REMAIN IN CAIRO DESPITE TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 62 words


British tourists were yesterday carrying on with holidays in Cairo after
Thursday's terrorist outrage which left nine Germans and their bus driver dead.

Thomson Holidays said only six of its 89 clients in Cairo had taken the option
of leaving for Luxor in southern Egypt. The company said that contrary to its
earlier statement it had not stopped trips to Cairo.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              39 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          September 20, 1997, Saturday

More terror attacks shake Egypt

BYLINE: Christopher Walker, Middle East Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 202 words


SUSPECTED Islamic militants intent on destabilising the regime of President
Mubarak yesterday killed one policeman and wounded three others in two separate
attacks in southern Egypt.

The incidents happened less than 24 hours after militants were accused of
mounting an attack in central Cairo that killed nine German tourists and their
Egyptian coach driver.

After that attack, British tourists were moved from Cairo to Upper Egypt in the
belief that they would be safer there. Thomson Holidays cancelled further
departures for Egypt.

The first attack yesterday occurred in the town of Dairut, between Minya and
Assiut, about 175 miles south of Cairo, a hotbed of Muslim fundamentalism.
Gunmen believed to be members of the main militant Islamic group, Gamaa
al-Islamiya, machinegunned the police car as officers were delivering breakfast
to men on duty outside the courthouse. One was killed and another wounded.

A few hours later, another group of gunmen shot at a police car patrolling the
road between two villages near Mallawi. Two police officers were wounded.
Western security experts said the attacks were in defiance of government claims
to have got terrorism under control.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Newspapers Limited

                              40 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          September 23, 1997, Tuesday

TALKING WITH SF 'DISHONOURS' THE VICTIMS OF TERROR ATTACKS;
           ULSTER UNIONIST MP STANDS FIRM ON CRITICISM OF UUP DECISION TO MEET
ADAMS IN STORMONT DISCUSSIONS

BYLINE: Mervyn Pauley

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 567 words


Outspoken Ulster Unionist MP William Thompson last night stood over his
criticism of the party's decision to face Sinn Fein at the Stormont talks.

With David Trimble set to take his team into Castle Buildings to push for the
republicans' removal, Mr Thompson insisted the party could not win the challenge
- and claimed facing Sinn Fein would dishonour those who died fighting
terrorism.

"The British Government has not the slightest intention of putting Sinn Fein out
of the talks," he said.

"They have had a lot of bother getting them there and there is not the slightest
possibility of them putting Sinn Fein out - it is a battle the party simply
cannot win."

The West Tyrone MP, an independent-minded politician not averse to rocking
boats, said: "I don't believe we should be involved in talks with those who are
still wedded to terrorism.

"As a general principle no constitutional party should get involved with people
like that. This idea of macho men going in to confront Sinn Fein to defend the
Union is a bit unreal.

"The British Government has bent over backwards to keep them in and is not going
to put them out - unless the IRA commits an atrocity in England.

"It is clear that London, Dublin and Washington are singing from the same hymn
sheet - the Framework Document - and if the talks break down the British
Government will seek to impose a settlement based on it."

Despite this, he believed a talks pull-out would be the honourable thing to do.

"We should continue to talk to Government and the constitutional parties but not
to people who have murdered our kith and kin," he said.

"We would be dishonouring people who gave their lives to defeat terrorism by
engaging in talks with Sinn Fein/IRA. They were not fighting to compromise with
terrorism and such talks would be a betrayal of them."

Mr Thompson's hard-hitting views - he expressed similar thoughts some days ago
before the party executive meeting at which Mr Trimble was given the go-ahead to
decide talks tactics - are thought to be shared by some elements in the party.

But Mr Trimble clearly has broad-based support. One senior party member said
last night: "In a delicate situation we are proceeding with caution.  But we
have no intention of letting Sinn Fein off the hook after the IRA's rejection of
the Mitchell Principles and the Markethill bombing."

Another party member said: "We will confront Sinn Fein when the need arises but
will not negotiate with them."

Ulster Unionist talks strategist Reg Empey played down the rift. "The party has
taken a democratic decision to confront Sinn Fein," he pointed out. "Mr Thompson
has made his position clear before and I don't know whether there is support for
his view or not."

DUP secretary Nigel Dodds had no such doubts.

Mr Thompson's criticism was the tip of an iceberg of discontent within the UUP,
he said yesterday, while his party leader, Ian Paisley, spoke of "terrible
upheaval" in the ranks.

Sinn Fein's vice president Pat Doherty reacted by urging Mr Thompson to
"overcome his own personal fears of change and embrace the peace process".

He added: "He should remember that he has been engaging and carrying out
business with Sinn Fein in the council chambers over the years. His current
position is not only at odds with this but with that of his fellow party members
and its grass roots."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WILLIAM THOMPSON: views unchanged;; REG EMPEY: playing down rift

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              41 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          September 23, 1997, Tuesday

THE NIGHT I THOUGHT LITTLE ANTHONY HAD BEEN KILLED;
          MUM RELIVES TERROR OF GOLF BALL ATTACK WHICH PUT BABY SON IN HOSPITAL

BYLINE: Gary Kelly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 464 words


A relieved mum gave thanks yesterday that her baby son was still alive after a
golf ball cannoned into a car window, showering him in glass.

Elizabeth Sheppard was holding her three-month-old son Anthony in the back seat
of her brother's car on Sunday when the missile ricocheted off a wall, striking
the window and shattering it into thousands of pieces.

The attack took place on the slipway of the West Link near Clifton Street bridge
in Belfast at about 8pm.

Elizabeth, 22, relived the horror of the incident as she cradled Anthony in her
family's living room yesterday.

She said: "The whole window came in on top of him. Anthony didn't move at first
and he didn't cry. I thought he was dead.

"It was lucky the back of his head was towards the window. If he had been turned
the other way, he could have lost his sight."

Elizabeth had to strip her son at the scene to prevent him from being cut. She
says she will never put those clothes on him again.

Other motorists immediately came to the aid of the shocked occupants as the car
shuddered to a halt. Elizabeth's three-year-old niece Amanda, cut by flying
glass as she sat in the back, was comforted by one driver.

An RUC Land Rover quickly arrived at the scene and rushed the family to the
Mater Hospital. Miraculously, little Anthony wasn't badly hurt.

Yesterday, he was taking it all in his stride in the family's Antrim Road home
but Elizabeth hasn't been to sleep since the incident.

"My doctor has prescribed some sedatives to help me get some sleep," she said.

Anthony's grandmother Josephine Sheppard called for tough measures on youngsters
caught throwing stones or other missiles at traffic.

She said: "Whenever they are caught, they should be brought to court instead of
receiving a telling off. Whoever threw that last night knew they were going to
damage a car." She praised passing motorists and the police for their help.

"There was that many people stopped to help and the policewoman who came to the
hospital was more than good. She rang us twice this morning to see how he was.
We were really appreciative."

Police chief's plea

A SENIOR police officer has appealed to warring gangs on the Lower
Shankill/Unity area to stop attacking each other.

Superintendent David Matchett, sub-divisional commander for North Queen Street,
said it was a miracle that baby Anthony wasn't killed in Sunday night's
incident.

Supt Matchett said: "This is a particularly vulnerable part of the West Link.
The adjoining land lies very far across the motorway and there is a tendency for
youngsters to throw across the motorway."

He said that police had stepped up patrols recently in response to appeals from
residents after a number of serious incidents in the area.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SAFE AT HOME: Elizabeth Sheppard comforts little Anthony after the golf
ball attack ordeal

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              42 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 29, 1997, Monday

NEWS BITES;
Pals in blade attacks terror;
Two man hurt in knife attack in Sauchiehall Street

SECTION: Page 19

LENGTH: 33 words


Two pals were badly hurt in knife attacks at the weekend. The men, aged 33 and
20, were attacked in Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow. Last night both were in a
serious but stable condition in hospital.


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              43 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 2, 1997, Thursday

TEEN GANG BUS TERROR;
TEENAGE GANG HUNTED AFTER ATTACK ON 2 GIRLS ON BUS IN GATESHEAD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 68 words


A Gang of 15 teenagers who attacked and robbed two girls on a bus in Gateshead
and then menaced the woman driver are being hunted by police.

The thugs, nine boys and six girls, beat up the frightened youngsters, aged 13,
and kicked one to the floor, threatening passengers who tried to help them.

They slapped and punched the bus driver before making off with clothing
including a Kappa jacket.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              44 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 6, 1997

Terror attack

SECTION: Pg.31

LENGTH: 42 words


A TERRIFIED young girl watched in horror as her mum was attacked by a street
robber as they walked home.

The woman, believed to be aged in her early 30s, had just left a corner shop at
Swindon with her young daughter when the attacker struck.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1997 Bristol United Press

                              45 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 6, 1997

Daughter witnesses terror attack

SECTION: Pg.31

LENGTH: 125 words


A TERRIFIED young girl watched in horror as her mum was attacked by a street
robber as they walked home.

The woman, believed to be aged in her early 30s, had just left a corner shop at
Swindon with her young daughter when the attacker struck.

He grabbed the startled woman from behind, forcing her to the ground as her
daughter looked on.

Both the woman and the girl screamed for help before the raider fled empty
-handed.

Police described him as black, 6ft, wearing dark clothes and a dark baseball
cap. They appealed for witnesses to the attempted robbery, which happened in
William Street.

The woman suffered a twisted ankle as she was flung to the ground, and cuts on
her leg and cheek. The little girl was not hurt.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1997 Bristol United Press

                              46 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 14, 1997, Tuesday

Terror attacks greet trial of Basque leaders

BYLINE: Elizabeth Nash

SECTION: NEWS; Page  14

LENGTH: 431 words


Spanish courts have put 23 Basque political leaders on trial over alleged
support for terrorism. Elizabeth Nash in Madrid says the action may undermine
the wave of public revulsion against the separatists' violent tactics.

The Supreme Court trial of 23 leaders of the pro-Eta Herri Batasuna party opened
yesterday in Madrid, amid seething tension in the Basque Country where a number
of terrorist attacks took place at the weekend.

Yesterday afternoon in Bilbao, a police officer was shot in the shoulder while
guarding the new Guggenheim Museum which opens on Saturday.

The entire leadership of the HB party, which won 12 per cent of Basque votes in
general elections in March last year, is charged with "collaborating with an
armed gang" by issuing an election video calling for the government to talk to
Eta gunmen.

The trial was postponed from last Monday when HB's defence claimed
unsuccessfully that one of the three judges was biased. Yesterday HB called for
the trial to be suspended, or shifted to the Basque Country, because of "an
atmosphere of pressure in favour of a conviction". The defence says HB's
position in the campaign video - which showed masked, armed men urging their
vision of "alternative democracy" - was already public knowledge.

The Interior Minister, Jaime Major Oreja, said in a newspaper interview: "I have
the moral and political certainty that Eta is HB and HB is Eta." But he added:
"I cannot say whether there is a judicial reason to apply a criminal action to
HB."

The 23 each face eight years' jail, if found guilty. They are also accused of
defending terrorism by publicly supported Eta's assassination in 1996 of two
prominent legal figures. The killings sent a wave of revulsion throughout Spain,
prefiguring the eruption on to the streets of millions this summer over the
murder of the local politician Miguel Angel Blanco.

The conservative Basque nationalist leader, Xabier Arzalluz, whose party backs
Jose Maria Aznar's government, condemned the trial as politically motivated.
The persistent fusillade of terrorist attacks in the Basque Country continued at
the weekend, when a car bomb on Saturday wounded four National Guardsmen in San
Sebastian. On Sunday, two Basque policemen were attacked with petrol bombs and
suffered burns after a pro-HB demonstration in Bilbao.

The 23, who are all free on bail, have requested that the Supreme Court to
conduct morning-only sessions so they can return to their Basque homes each
night. They complain that hotels around Madrid refuse them lodgings.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              47 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           October 16, 1997, Thursday

FIREWORKS THUGS PUT GUIDE DOG ON VALIUM;
Pet's terror over attacks;
Terrified dog belonging to blind Isobell Henderson has been put on
tranquillisers because of fireworks attacks

BYLINE: Shaun Milne

SECTION: Page 11

LENGTH: 223 words


Fireworks attacks by yobs have led to a blind OAP's terrified guide dog being
put on tranquillisers.

The thugs pounce on 80-year-old Isobell Henderson as she walks with golden
labrador Roxy.

And yesterday Isobell, who stays in sheltered housing, told of her ordeal.

She said: "The first time all I could hear was this squealing noise from a
rocket passing in front of us.

"It was only three yards away. I could hear them laughing at us from across the
road.

"Roxy nearly jumped out of her skin but she's very loyal and kept working until
we got home.

"But when I let her off the harness she went off her head."

Isobell added: "She was trembling, running about and was crying for hours. I got
the vet out and he put her on tran- quillisers to calm her down.

"Since then it's happened every day with other bangers being thrown, so I've got
to give her more. Her nerves are shredded.

"She won't be able to take much more and I'm scared she will be taken away from
me."

Roxy refuses to go near the lane in Uddingston, Lanarkshire, where the first
attack happened last Friday. And Guide Dogs for the Blind have said she may have
to retire.

Disgusted police hunting the culprits said only luck prevented Roxy and Isobell
from being badly injured.

Roxy has been Isobell's eyes and independence for the past four years.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              48 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 18, 1997

This woman's 'crime' was to report a vicious attack. Since then she's endured a
life of terror from which the law offers almost no protection. Welcome to the
inverted morality of modern-day Britain . . .;
INTIMIDATION

BYLINE: Sarah Chalmers

SECTION: Pg. 28;29

LENGTH: 1496 words


THE crime that Linda Pluckroses witnessed was, by anyone's standards, a brutal
one. Shortly before 11pm one December night last year, the mother-of-four was
walking home through a nearby council estate in the Cornish town of St Austell
when she saw a terrifying, unprovoked attack.

She watched in horror as three youths leaped from behind a hedge, pounced on a
car in the midst of a three-point turn and began battering it with baseball
bats.

The car's four occupants trembled with fear as the bat-wielding thugs unleashed
their fury. It later turned out that one of the assailants had quite simply 'not
liked the look of the driver's face'.

First, the back windscreen was smashed, then the driver's door was attacked in a
desperate bid to lure him out. One assailant hammered at the front of the car,
another at the side, and the third at the back.

By the time the driver managed to manoeuvre out of the dimly-lit cul-de-sac,
Linda was in no doubt about what she had seen.

'You see these things in films, but you don't believe they can happen where you
live,' she says. 'I dread to think what would have happened if any of those lads
had tried to get out of the car.' The three attackers - who boast a string of
convictions for theft and vandalism - were arrested within days, but it took a
further seven months for their case to be heard at Cornwall's Truro Crown Court.
All pleaded guilty, but were freed pending sentence in December.

Today, ten months after their terrifying crime, the trio still walk freely
around the seaside town of St Austell.

Meanwhile, 41-year-old Linda has become a virtual prisoner in her home, the neat
three-bedroom semi on the respectable Housing Association estate next to where
the attack took place. She lives there with her husband John and two children
from a previous marriage.

Her 'crime' was to have reported what she had seen. From then on, her life has
been an exhausting battle against intimidation from the three guilty men.

Almost daily, she has been spat at, followed and verbally abused. Linda now
relies on pills to help her sleep, she cannot eat, she has had to give up her
job, she fears for her marriage and has even considered suicide.

And what makes her experience all the more disturbing is that she had complete
faith in the power of British justice and the altruism of her fellow human
beings.

YET her story serves only to highlight our legal system's failure to protect
those who are striving the hardest to uphold its standards.

From the instant the attack ended, there was no doubt in the mind of the
fragile-looking woman - who stands at just a whisker over five feet tall that
she would be targeted by the three attackers. But, back in December, she was
just as sure of the ability of this country's laws to protect her.

On the night of the attack, after the trio had tired of their ferocious assault,
one, whom Linda recognised, turned and saw her standing motionless on the
deserted road. She recalls: 'He just said: "She's seen us" and the next thing I
knew they were after me.' But even as she fled, the youths in hot pursuit, her
resolve did not waiver.

By the time she reached the sanctuary of her home, to collapse sobbing into
John's arms, she was determined to report the crime - in no doubt that the law
would protect her. And even when, still shaken, she ventured out to use her
neighbour's phone to report the incident, her sense of right and wrong was
clear.

Linda says: 'It was the obvious thing to do. I wasn't looking for trouble, I'm a
peaceful person. All John and I have ever wanted is to get on with our lives and
raise our children the right way.

'I have always brought my children up to respect right from wrong. I taught them
that if they see an old person struggling to cross the road, they should help,
if they saw a crime they should report it.' She adds wearily: 'Now, I wouldn't
report anything. But at the time I'd had no dealings with the law and always
assumed the system was there to protect you if anything went wrong.

'I knew they might not be imprisoned, but I never thought for a minute I would
be in danger.' As the days passed without an arrest she grew nervous, and even
when the three were charged, but released, her fears were not allayed.

'They were well-known round here as troublemakers. I'd heard them threaten the
sister of one of the boys who were in the car, at her work in the local shop.

'Then one day, when I was cycling through town to work, one of them stepped out
in front of me and put his hand in front of my face. I could have fallen off my
bike and been run over,'

she shudders. But that was only the start.

'Soon they began following me almost daily. I invariably bumped into one or more
of them every time I ventured out. They'd walk behind me shouting "Bitch" and
"Slag" - sometimes much worse.

'One day they started saying "We know your name" and "We know where you live'. I
was terrified but I was determined to follow the police's advice and not
retaliate.

WHEN anyone was around they never did anything, but if there was no one to see,
they were awful. Once, one of their friends came right up to me in a shop,
whispered abuse and spat in my face.

'When I was waitressing at a holiday camp some of the young boys who worked
there had to give me a lift to and from home because I was too afraid to walk
alone.

'Those thugs come to our estate and hang about outside the house, or sit on the
step ringing the bell constantly, or shout through the letter box for six hours
at a time.

'We don't have a phone so I have to ask friends to come with me to the police
station when I go to report incidents. Once it was so bad I had to get a police
officer to take me to work because I was too frightened to go alone.

'Their friends join in now, and I'm just waiting for the day when they pour
petrol through my letter box and set us and our two kids alight, like they have
promised to. The police have had to give me a mobile phone for emergencies.' In
the midst of this nightmare, Linda is very much alone. The police know her
tormentors, but have admitted they're powerless to act without proof of the
abuse or evidence of physical attacks. And other families in the community Linda
has been trying to protect have shunned her, preferring to express their unease
quietly.

On Monday, two of the youths were charged with witness intimidation while
charges against the third were dropped. Their case will be heard in three weeks,
and until then bail conditions mean they must stay away from Linda and her
estate, and from one another.

But, even if they are found guilty, their hate campaign is likely to deter
others from coming forward.

Detective Chief Inspector Stuart Newberry, of Truro, admits that his force is
'ineffective' without the help of the public.

He says: 'We need people like Linda Pluckroses. We are very concerned about
witness intimidation, but we want to encourage anyone who's seen a crime to come
forward.

'I give my personal commitment that we will deal with them as effectively as we
can.' Strong words - but ones that the residents of St Austell's estates are
already scoffing at. Linda Pluck-roses is not the only woman who has seen what
the three are capable of. Their history is notorious.

On the cul-de-sac where the attack took place, residents nonchalantly point to
half a dozen houses whose inhabitants have been driven out by the thugs.

'The old man in the end house moved into a home because he couldn't take it any
longer,' says one. 'They used to sit in his garden and leave beer cans.' And at
the home of 19-year-old Lee Turner - who was in the car when the attack happened
- the tales are even more gruesome.

Lee's father, Les, says the windows

of his car were smashed and, the night before the trio were tried for affray, it
was torched.

Just 18 months ago, when the Pluckroses had moved into their home on the
newly-built Timber Close, Linda had every reason to be optimistic. Money was
tight, but after two failed marriages she had found love with John. The two
youngest of her four children were settling in and making friends.

On that fateful night in December, Linda and John had been celebrating their
wedding anniversary at a local social club. At the end of the evening John had
taken a different route home to pick up a Chinese takeaway. Linda had joked:
'I'll race you back.' Today, the strain of the intimidation has caused a rift
between the couple. Stress has forced Linda to give up her job and she now
thinks her only option is to uproot the children and move to where no one knows
them.

'Other people on the estate have blamed me for bringing trouble to their door.
Now I don't know what to tell my kids about right and wrong any more.'

But she is sure of one thing. She will never again report an attack to the
police. And that surely is the greatest injustice of all.


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PRESSURE: LINDA AND HUSBAND JOHN VICTIM OF FEAR: LINDA HAS BECOME A
PRISONER IN HER OWN HOME HAVEN AND HELL: THE PLUCKROSES' QUIET ESTATE, NEAR THE
SCENE OF THE ATTACK

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              49 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           October 23, 1997, Thursday

SEX TERROR IN WOOD;
Young schoolgirl attacked by a teenage sex beast in Kirkcaldy, Fife

SECTION: Page 15

LENGTH: 49 words


A 14-year-old schoolgirl was attacked by a teenage sex beast as she walked along
a wooded path.

The girl was going through Middle Den, between Hayfield Road and Dunnikier Way,
Kirkcaldy, Fife, when she was indecently assaulted and beaten up.

Police say the attacker could strike again.


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              50 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                October 31, 1997

Terror group 'threat';

Bomb attack sparks warning

BYLINE: By Nigel Gould

LENGTH: 364 words


THE Continuity IRA is posing a growing threat to security, RUC Chief Constable
Ronnie Flanagan has warned.

Mr Flanagan was speaking after the IRA splinter group admitted responsibility
for a Semtex bomb attack in the centre of Londonderry yesterday.

The Chief Constable said the bomb which put hundreds of lives at risk as had
been a "viable device".

"We had anticipated an attack by the Continuity IRA for some time now, and at
this stage although it is too soon to be definitive, this would seem to be the
work of that organisation," he said.

"They showed in Markethill what they are capable of and people must be vigilant
against that threat."

The alarm in Derry was raised after a masked gunman left an incendiary device
taped to two gallons of petrol at Orchard House containing a number of
government offices.

More than 300 civil servants fled and although the detonator exploded, the bomb,
inside a holdall, failed to ignite the main charge.

The Continuity IRA admitted responsibility for the attack.

The same group was also blamed yesterday for a 500lb bomb hoax call in Armagh.

Residents, including a number of pensioners, were moved out of their homes while
bomb disposal experts spent more than seven hours trying to find the device.

Several controlled explosions were carried out at a block of shops and flats
being redeveloped at Albert Place - before being declared a hoax.

A caller climing to be from the Continuity IRA told a Belfast newsroom around
1pm that the device had been intended for a passing Army patrol but had failed
to detonate.

The terror alerts happened on the day Government plans were revealed to replace
the Prevention of Terrorist Actwith a new broader- based law.

The plans included a renewal of the Northern Ireland (Emergency Provisions) Act
but with the removal of internment provisions.

Meanwhile, part of the M2 motorway was closed earlier today as several
controlled explosions were carried out on a suspect car.

The vehicle had been left on the motorway near Fortwilliam.

Army technical officers carried out an investigation for more than three hours -
but nothing was found.


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1997 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              51 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                October 31, 1997

Terror group 'threat';

Bomb attack sparks warning

BYLINE: By Nigel Gould

LENGTH: 364 words


THE Continuity IRA is posing a growing threat to security, RUC Chief Constable
Ronnie Flanagan has warned.

Mr Flanagan was speaking after the IRA splinter group admitted responsibility
for a Semtex bomb attack in the centre of Londonderry yesterday.

The Chief Constable said the bomb which put hundreds of lives at risk as had
been a "viable device".

"We had anticipated an attack by the Continuity IRA for some time now, and at
this stage although it is too soon to be definitive, this would seem to be the
work of that organisation," he said.

"They showed in Markethill what they are capable of and people must be vigilant
against that threat."

The alarm in Derry was raised after a masked gunman left an incendiary device
taped to two gallons of petrol at Orchard House containing a number of
government offices.

More than 300 civil servants fled and although the detonator exploded, the bomb,
inside a holdall, failed to ignite the main charge.

The Continuity IRA admitted responsibility for the attack.

The same group was also blamed yesterday for a 500lb bomb hoax call in Armagh.

Residents, including a number of pensioners, were moved out of their homes while
bomb disposal experts spent more than seven hours trying to find the device.

Several controlled explosions were carried out at a block of shops and flats
being redeveloped at Albert Place - before being declared a hoax.

A caller climing to be from the Continuity IRA told a Belfast newsroom around
1pm that the device had been intended for a passing Army patrol but had failed
to detonate.

The terror alerts happened on the day Government plans were revealed to replace
the Prevention of Terrorist Actwith a new broader- based law.

The plans included a renewal of the Northern Ireland (Emergency Provisions) Act
but with the removal of internment provisions.

Meanwhile, part of the M2 motorway was closed earlier today as several
controlled explosions were carried out on a suspect car.

The vehicle had been left on the motorway near Fortwilliam.

Army technical officers carried out an investigation for more than three hours -
but nothing was found.


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1997 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              52 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          November 5, 1997, Wednesday

ROAD RAGE ATTACKER BRANDED A TERRORIST;
JAILED: Sheriff raps driver for chasing disabled OAP;
James Kilpatrick who subjected a disabled pensioner and his teenage daughter to
a road rage ordeal was caged for eight months yesterday

BYLINE: Nick Britten

SECTION: Page 6

LENGTH: 370 words


A burly businessman who subjected a disabled pensioner and his teenage daughter
to a road rage ordeal was caged for eight months yesterday.

A sheriff branded James Kilpatrick, 41, a car "terrorist".

He left his victims "gibbering wrecks" after the attack.

OAP Robert Watson, who suffers from arthritis and has two artificial knees, was
driving from his home in Glenrothes, Fife, with daughter Hazel, 16, to visit his
wife in a Kirkcaldy hospital.

While doing about 65mph on the A92, Kilpatrick appeared behind them in his
powerful Rover, flashing his lights and sounding his horn.

Bus tour boss Kilpatrick was waving his fists and gesturing before cutting
Robert up and slamming on his brakes.

Kilpatrick slewed his car across both carriageways, got out and charged towards
the Watsons.

He banged on the roof, kicked the door and then reached into the open sunroof to
try to grab Robert, before SITTING in the road and attempting to pull the wing
off the car.

Robert told a jury that at that point he realised the man was "beyond reason".

Kirkcaldy Sheriff Court heard Kilpatrick then returned to his car.

But when Robert got out to look at the damage, Kilpatrick returned and threw him
against the car.

Robert said he was eventually bundled back into his car and Kilpatrick pulled
the keys from the ignition and threw them into the central reservation.

The nut then went back to his own car for a mobile phone and contacted police to
complain about ROBERT'S driving. He returned to the Watsons' car and bounced on
the bonnet. Robert also claimed Kilpatrick lay down in front of the car to stop
him driving off.

When he got up, the disabled driver took off but was followed through Kirkcaldy
by Kilpatrick.  They then spotted a police car which followed them.

Kilpatrick, of Glenrothes, was convicted in August of dangerous driving.

He was also convicted of breach of the peace, assaulting Robert and wilfully
damaging his vehicle in September last year.

Kilpatrick claimed Robert had braked sharply and forced him to swerve.

He said he was "incensed" and wanted to give Robert a piece of his mind.

Sheriff Charles Smith said Kilpatrick had behaved as a "terrorist on the road".


LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              53 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                November 5, 1997

Downfall of road rage 'terrorist' after attack on disabled driver;
EIGHT MONTHS JAIL FOR BUSINESSMAN AFTER VICIOUS ASSAULT ON PENSIONER

BYLINE: Allan Baillie

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 422 words


A BUSINESSMAN who subjected a disabled pensioner and his teenage daughter to a
road rage ordeal was branded 'a terrorist of the road' by a judge yesterday.

James Kilpatrick left his victims 'gibbering wrecks' and 'totally hysterical'
but yesterday it was the 41-year-old father of two who was visibly shocked when
he was jailed for eight months.

Condemning the driving of the coach tour boss as 'beyond belief', Sheriff
Charles Smith said the effect of Kilpatrick's behaviour on the pair could only
be imagined.

After a three-day jury trial Kirkcaldy Sheriff Court, Kilpatrick, of Falcon
Drive, Glen-rothes, Fife, was convicted of dangerous driving on the A92 Thornton
bypass between Glenrothes and Kirkcaldy on September 14.

He was also found guilty of committing a breach of the peace, assaulting Robert
Watson and wilfully damaging his vehicle.

Mr Watson, a retired systems analyst who suffers from rheumatoid arthritis, has
two artificial knees and walks with the aid of a stick, was driving from his
Glenrothes home with his daughter Hazel, 16, to visit his wife in a Kirkcaldy
hospital.

He said he was overtaking three vehicles at about 60-65 mph when he spotted a
large Rover behind him, flashing its lights and sounding its horn.

Kilpatrick was waving his fists and gesticulating. He drove to the inside lane
and continued parallel to Mr Watson's car before pulling out in front.

Then he braked several times, forcing Mr Watson to brake sharply to avoid a
collision.

At Redhouse Roundabout, Kirkcaldy, Kil-patrick stopped his car blocking both
carriageways, and got out. The terrified Watsons locked their doors as he came
'steaming towards them'.

He banged on the roof, kicked the door and reached through the open sunroof
trying to grab Mr Watson, who said he then realised the man was 'beyond reason'.
Kil-patrick returned to his car, but when Mr Watson got out to assess the damage
to his vehicle he was grabbed and thrown against it.

Passers-by said they saw Kilpatrick assault Mr Watson and bang on his car.

Hazel Watson had pleaded with Kil-patrick, 'Leave my dad alone, he's disabled,'
but he had threatened her.

Mr Watson, 51, said he was thrown back into his car by Kil-patrick, who pulled
the keys from the ignition and threw them into the central reservation.

Kilpatrick admitted being foolish in getting out of his car but said he was
'incensed' and wanted to give Mr Watson a piece of his mind.

Kilpatrick was also banned from driving for four years.


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: RAGE: JAMES KILPATRICK, RIGHT, WAS JAILED FOR ASSAULTING DISABLED
ROBERT WATSON, LEFT, PICTURED WITH HIS DAUGHTER, HAZEL

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              54 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 5, 1997, Wednesday

ROYAL SAVAGED IN SHARK ATTACK;
IT HAD SHARP TEETH, SAYS JAMES AFTER JAWS TERROR;
JAMES OGILVY TELLS OF ATTACK BY SHARK

BYLINE: Harry Arnold

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 472 words


The son of Princess Alexandra told last night how he was savaged by a Great
White shark.

James Ogilvy, 32, was badly bitten when it sank its teeth into his leg.

The attack came as publisher James - 31st in line to the throne - swam off a
Florida holiday beach.

He was taken to hospital where doctors put 30 stitches in the wound.

James said: "I was only up to my knees, heading in for a mid-morning swim, when
this thing bit me.

"I was lucky because it caught me on the front of the leg. But it still had
sharp teeth.

"I have not been in the sea again - neither has anyone else."

His wife Julia, who saw the attack, broke the news in a phone call to the family
home in Scotland.

But his parents Princess Alexandra and Sir Angus Ogilvy have yet to be told -
they are on holiday in Africa and cannot be contacted.

Former banker James had been in America on business but had taken his wife and
children Flora, almost three, and one-year-old Alexander for a holiday treat.

A spokeswoman for Princess Alexandra said: "The details we have are rather
sketchy.

"All we know is that a shark attacked him and the wound had to be stitched.

"But apparently he is not seriously hurt and there is no lasting damage."

Despite the drama the family carried on with their holiday and are due to fly
back to Britain today as planned.

James, whose sister is Marina Mowatt, married Julia, a former publicity director
of royal jewellers Garrard, eight years ago.

They met at Scotland's St Andrews university, where Old Etonian James studied
art history.

A year ago he launched a magazine under the title Luxury Briefing.

A publishing colleague said: "James is a strong swimmer and when he is on
holiday he tends to spend hours in the water.

"He likes to swim far away from the beach to escape the crowds.

"I've never known him get into difficulties in the water. But then no one is
ready for a shark attack."

James was unlucky to be attacked in the shallows as sharks normally prefer deep
water.

Florida coastguard Ed Maschler said: "Sharks hate shallow water because they
feel they are in danger of being beached.

"That's why men tend to be attacked more often than women - they are generally
more adventurous and swim further out to sea.

"But despite what people believe, sharks seldom attack humans deliberately.

"They tend to mistake them for shoals of fish, which is their preferred diet.

"They are attracted by the thrashing of arms and legs in the water."

Shark attacks in America are comparatively rare - a few dozen a year - despite
the widespread fear created by the Jaws movies.

Ten per cent of victims are divers and another 20 per cent fishermen.

But the average American is 1,000 times more likely to die from drowning than
from a shark attack.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KILLING MACHINE: A shark's teeth can rip a man to shreds;; BITTEN:
James needed 30 stitches in his leg after the attack

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              55 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          November 5, 1997, Wednesday

Republican terrorist group 'is poised for new attack'

BYLINE: Martin Fletcher, Chief Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 306 words


THE republican terrorist group responsible for Friday's failed bombing in
Londonderry has gained access to Semtex and is expected to mount another attack
before the weekend, senior security sources said last night.

The Continuity IRA, once dismissed as little more than a joke, appeared to be
receiving assistance from a few rebellious IRA hardliners and now posed a
serious threat to the peace process, the sources said. "They are reckoned to be
a real threat and the security forces are acting accordingly," one official
said.

"The Provisional IRA is worried about them and we are worried about them,"
another acknowledged.

With Republican Sinn Fein, widely regarded as Continuity IRA's political wing,
holding its annual conference in Dublin this weekend, a further morale-boosting
attack was "extremely likely if they can get it together", the second official
added.

The sources said the Londonderry bomb, left in a government office building on
the eve of Hillary Clinton's visit, consisted of 1.5lb of Semtex and two gallons
of petrol and would have caused a massive explosion if the detonator had worked.

But equally alarming was the fact that Continuity IRA had, for the first time,
used Semtex, previously possessed only by the IRA. Security sources agreed that
this probably came from an IRA stockpile and blamed hardliners opposed to the
ceasefire.

They are confident that the IRA leadership did not approve the transfer. IRA
leaders viewed the development "with alarm" because it endangered the peace
process.

Continuity IRA dates from a Sinn Fein split in 1986, but became militarily
active only after the IRA's 1995 ceasefire. It bombed the Killyhevlin hotel in
Fermanagh last year, and Markethill, Co Armagh, in September, and has mounted
several unsuccessful attacks in the past year.


LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Newspapers Limited

                              56 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                               Construction News

                           November 6, 1997 Thursday

Rising from the ashes of a terrorist attack

SECTION: ARTICLE; Other; News

LENGTH: 745  words



HIGHLIGHT: Manchester's Corn Exchange was devastated by the IRA bomb attack on
the city centre last year. Kate Sleep reports on the painstaking efforts
required to restore the Grade II listed building


THE CORN Exchange, one of the landmark buildings of Manchester's city centre,
had its roof lifted off by the IRA bomb of June last year. But once the initial
shock had passed, the owners seized the opportunity to redevelop the site.

Long gone are the market traders who used to occupy the ground floor and the
small businesses located above and work is well under way to return the building
to its former glory.

The owner, Frogmore Estates, has yet to finalise its plans for the grade II
listed building. One proposal is to turn it into a 170-bedroom hotel with
restaurants, cafes and pubs.

An element of the unknown must be tackled when repairing a bomb-damaged
building. What's left may look intact, but unseen damage can make it
structurally unstable. An in-depth study of each building is the only way to
determine its safety.

The £1.7 million safety and investigation phase was completed in November, 1996
and the £5 million refurbishment phase is now almost finished. The new works
phase will follow.

Working within budget constraints to piece together the Corn Exchange is a hard
task.

The entire roof lifted off during the blast, causing significant structural
damage and necessitating a big clear-up operation.

Huge amounts of scaffolding were erected around the building to make it safe and
give access to engineers assessing the damage.

The Corn Exchange is, in fact, the second largest scaffolding project the
North-West has seen for 10 years. During the clear-up stage there were 126,000
scaffolding connections and around 10 km of poles sitting on 650 concrete base
plates.

The blast shattered the central glass dome in the centre of the building and
most of the 17,000 sq m of glass fell to the floor. The remaining shards in the
dome's steel frame were pushed to the floor with poles by two workers suspended
from a 350-tonne crane.

Once the initial safety work was complete, Frogmore found itself in negotiation
with loss adjusters to determine which areas of destruction were bomb- damaged
and which had been affected by natural wear and tear.

'For every obvious decision, there are 10 harder ones to agree with loss
adjusters,' says Peter Fowkes, Frogmore's project manager.

'This process stops a detailed programme for the whole project being drawn up.
Instead, work is being carried out piecemeal.'

A complex financial arrangement adds to the fragmented construction. Money
decisions fall not only to the owner, but are largely in the hands of insurers.
The insurance brokers pay to bring the building back to its former condition,
while Frogmore funds work to upgrade the building.

This can lead to delays and frustration. For example, on a typical project, a
temporary roof would have gone up over the works first, but the loss adjusters'
negotiations delayed the process, and prolonged rain caused even more damage to
the Corn Exchange.

'Dealing with loss adjusters is just part of the natural process of a big
insurance job,' says Mr Fowkes, resignedly.

Yet the rebuilding in the heart of Manchester is no ordinary situation, for
there has rarely been such a concentration of redevelopment.

The number of projects has in fact created a shortage of loss adjusters.

'They are a scare resource in Manchester,' Mr Fowkes says.

The rebuilding work is also slow because there are no drawings to work to.

'The process is unusual,' says Derek Wallace, Bucknall Austin's project manager.
'We find a problem and the consultants come up with details, which takes time.'

Redeveloping a listed building demands consultation with English Heritage. To
maintain the building's look, some 60 per cent of the original roof slates were
salvaged. The building team found the remaining tiles at an old school in York.

The quickest method of repair does not always provide the best long-term
solution. One small slate dome cupola cracked in the blast. On investigation,
the timber below was found to be structurally sound, but it was suggested the
original timber be removed and new substrates fixed. The slater was then able to
guarantee his work for 50 years.

The 650 chimney breasts on the Corn Exchange were also set to be replaced until
reference to an early postcard showed there were originally no chimneys; they
were a recent addition.

'Mace takes credit for that one,' says Mr Fowkes. 'They questioned the need for
chimneys.'

The client is clearly pleased with the progress so far and is at pains to point
out that the team is working well - despite the extraordinary site conditions.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Construction News


                            Copyright 1997 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           November 8, 1997, Saturday

THOUGHTS TURN TO THE VICTIMS OF TERROR ATTACKS;
          REMEMBRANCE SUNDAY PREVIEW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 380 words


As thousands of people throughout Northern Ireland remember the dead of two
World Wars this Sunday, thoughts will inevitably turn to those killed in our own
shores since 1969.

It will be a particularly poignant time for the people of Enniskillen as it is
the tenth anniversary of the Remembrance Day bombing which wrecked the lives of
so many of their neighbours and friends.

The traditional Remembrance Day Service in St Macartan's Cathedral after the
parade to the cenotaph will be taken this year by the Church of Ireland Primate,
Archbishop Robin Eames.

Media interest in the anniversary has been overwhelming and both the BBC and UTV
will broadcast special programmes on Sunday focusing on the aftermath of those
terrible events.

In the programme Enniskillen Remembers, Paul Clark reflects on a tragedy which
sent shockwaves across the world, while Radio Ulster's Sunday Sequence presents
a live broadcast from the town.

Remembrance Day, like many anniversaries in this divided land, does not escape
controversy and all eyes will be on the small village of Bellaghy, where the
residents group are objecting to the band leading the Royal British Legion
Parade.

Police have ordered the group to postpone its protest until the parade and
service has ended.

In other parts of Northern Ireland, as in the rest of the United Kingdom,
Remembrance Day Parades will go on without a hint of controversy.

In Belfast, the Lord Mayor Alban Maginness will join Secretary of State Mo
Mowlam in laying a wreath at the cenotaph at 10.40am to lead the city's tribute
to those who fell in the two world wars.

And in the year of celebrations to mark the 50th anniversary of the reformation
of the Territiorial Army in Northern Ireland after World War Two, 507 men and
women of 107 Brigade will join with the Royal British Legion in a Service of
Remembrance at St Anne's Cathedral.

In Donaghadee, one of the six surviving Ulster veterans from World War One will
take part in a Remembrance Day Service in the Methodist church.  James Taylor
will be joining the RBL in Donaghadee to walk to the war memorial and lay a
wreath. Mr Taylor served with the Royal Fleet and Artillery during the Great War
and is now a resident at Edgewater Lodge Nursing Home.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              58 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                November 9, 1997

'We bombed Paris for Algeria';
 Islamic cells are infiltrated, 'terrorist' attacks orchestrated, French

BYLINE: BY JOHN SWEENEY AND LEONARD DOYLE

SECTION: The Observer News Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1387 words


BOMBS in Paris, help for Saddam Hussein's programme to produce weapons of mass
destruction, the regime of terror at home - today Algeria's secret police state
is indicted by one of its own members for crimes against humanity.

'Yussuf-Joseph' was a career secret agent in Algeria's 'securite militaire'
until he defected to Britain, bringing with him the deepest secrets of the
regime's links with Saddam.  His wife and children were spirited out.  Two and a
half years later they are still waiting for political asylum.

'Joseph' spent 14 years as part of the Algerian police state. In one gulag
torture chamber he saw 'a human eye lying on a table, and in the eye a fork'.

He now risks assassination for speaking out publicly.  He said:

* The bombs that outraged Paris in 1995 - blamed on Muslim fanatics - were the
handiwork of the Algerian secret service. They were part of a sophisticated
black propaganda 'psy-ops' war aimed at galvanising French public opinion
against the Islamists.

* The Algerian police state is hiding material for Saddam's nuclear, chemical
and biological warfare programme. Intelligence agents from the two countries are
collaborating to defeat the United Nations sanctions against Iraq.

* The relentless massacres in Algeria are the work of secret police and army
death squads.

* Algerian intelligence agents routinely bribe European police, journalists and
MPs.  Joseph said he paid one French MP, who cannot be named for legal reasons,
more than 500,000 francs (about pounds 55,500) in bribes.

* The killing of many foreigners, including a British oil worker and seven
Italian seamen whose throats were slashed, was organised by the secret police,
not Islamic extremists.

Joseph, a strained, pale, intense man, described to the Observer the most secret
workings of the Algerian police state. He revealed that the constant terror in
which civilians live is orchestrated by two shadowy figures, more powerful than
the nominal President, General Liamine Zeroual.

The police state is run as the private fiefdom of two men: Mohammed Mediane,
codename 'Tewfik', and General Smain Lamari, the most feared names in Algeria.
They are, respectively, head of the Algerian Secret Service, Direction du
Renseignement et de la Securite (DRS), and

its sub-department, Direction Contre Espionage (DCE).

'(President) Zeroual is just the cherry on the cake,' said Joseph. 'Tewfik is
much more important and Smain is his enforcer.'

Since the military coup in 1992 after the first round of elections in which the
Islamic Salvation Front (FIS) was set to take power, the violence has escalated
to make Algeria the most dangerous country in the world.

The carnage in Algeria, the bombs in France, have been blamed on a group of
Muslim fanatics, the Armed Islamic Group, or GIA. Joseph said: 'The GIA is a
pure product of Smain's secret service.' His testimony is supported by a former
diplomat, Mohammed Larbi Zitout, number two at the Algerian Embassy in Libya
until he defected to Britain.

'I used to read all the secret telexes,' Joseph said. 'I know that the GIA has
been infiltrated and manipulated by the government. The GIA has been completely
turned by the government.'

Joseph said secret agents who flew in from Algeria, sent by Smain, organised 'at
least' two of the bombs in Paris in the summer of 1995, in which several people
were killed

and one Briton was injured. The operation was run by Colonel Souames Mahmoud,
alias Habib, head of the secret service at the Algerian Embassy in Paris. Joseph
did not take part in the bombing campaign.

Two men were later seized by French police. One, Khaled Kelkal, was shot in cold
blood, his killing caught on camera. The second, Karim Moussa, was captured,
injured. He has since disappeared and the French authorities have failed to
explain what happened to this most-wanted suspect.

Joseph said Tewfik and Smain spent some of Algeria's oil and gas billions to
bribe politicians and security officials in Europe. Joseph said: 'I personally
delivered a suitcase containing 500,000 francs to one French MP with strong
links to the French intelligence services.'

The French MP, who lost his seat at the last election, is a noted apologist for
the Algerian and Iraqi regimes.

The power of the securite militaire is such that it murdered a president, Joseph
said. President Mohammed Boudiaf was assassinated in June 1992 by people within
le pouvoir. He knows because two of the killers were associates in the securite
militaire.

'Boudiaf was killed because he had very sensitive files on corrupt generals. The
generals have made millions from corruption, held in Swiss banks. Boudiaf
started an inquiry. This was carried out by 15 junior officers.'

Two of the 15 - one of

them known as Commandant Mokhtari - 'are now dead.' Fatiha Boudiaf, the
President's widow, said last week: 'Boudiaf knew that he would be killed by
those who brought him to power' - a coded reference to the secret police.

Joseph said the massacres, in which tens of thousands of Algerians have been
killed since the civil war started in 1992, have been carried out by the
regime's death squads.

'Le pouvoir are behind the massacres and other killings besides. It's to
maintain the state of fear,' he said.

'In 1992 Smain created a special group, L'Escadron de la Mort (the Squadron of
Death). One of its main missions to begin with was to kill officers, colonels.

'The death squads are within the GIS, the Groupe d'Intervention Speciale. The
death squads organise the massacres. If anyone inside the killing machine
hesitates to torture or kill, they are automatically killed.

'Look at where the massacres take place - all in a 75 square-mile block in the
Mitidja Plain, a stronghold of FIS and the richest land in Algeria. The
government is going to privatise the land.  'The FIS aren't doing the massacres.
All the intelligence services in Europe know the government is doing it, but
they are keeping quiet because they want to protect their supplies of oil.'

Of the 100 foreigners murdered in Algeria, Joseph said he knew that a British
oil worker, Alan Wilson, a pipe-layer contracted to British Gas, from Edinburgh,
had been killed because the British authorities had not given the Algerian
government enough help in tracking Islamic extremists in London.

Joseph cited an atrocity when seven Italian seamen had their throats slit - the
Algerians call it 'the big smile' - in July 1994. The seven men on the Italian
ship Lucina were killed at the new port of Jenjen, near Jijel, 150 miles east of
Algiers. He said: 'It was a deliberate act of state policy to murder the Italian
seamen to put blame on the Muslim fundamentalists. Clinton was meeting the Group
of Seven in Italy the next day.'

Joseph said he had witnessed torture. 'I have seen the blowtorch used in
Chateauneuf. The smell is awful. They call it an Algerian word. When you kill a
lamb, they blowtorch it to burn off the wool. It has a very special smell of
burning hair and flesh, bouzalouf, smell of burnt wool, flesh.'

But the blowtorch was not the worst. 'I have seen in Antar, a torture centre
near Algiers Zoo, a human eye on a table with a fork in it. I have seen
interrogations when they have threatened "speak or we will fuck your daughter"
only 14 years of age. I very rarely have a peaceful night . . . I have terrible
nightmares.'

He described electrode torture he had seen. 'They manacle a person to a bed, no
mattress, just the springs. Then they get a live electric wire and touch the
person - he made a swishing movement, his right hand coming down in a lash:
'Dak', and back and forward, 'dak', and back and forward 'dak', and so on: dak,
daaaaaaaaaak.' He kept his arm forward, intimating that the current remains on
the body.

'Smain used to go to the torture Zoo and my colleagues would say: "The Boss is
here. He is working." That meant he was supervising the torture himself.'

* Four children died when a bomb exploded at an abandoned house in western
Algeria last week, the national daily Al-Khabar reported yesterday. It also said
that another bomb in Algiers killed one person. Five civilians were slaughtered
south-west of the capital. The paper blamed 'Islamic extremists'.


LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              59 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           November 10, 1997, Monday

Arab radical attacks US 'terror tactics'

BYLINE: Christopher Walker

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 641 words


The Muslim world is showing few signs of backing Clinton against Iraq,
Christopher Walker writes

A LEADER of Islamic Jihad, the militant Palestinian group, yesterday accused the
United States of terrorising the rest of the world in its latest stand-off with
Iraq, and called on Arabs and Muslims to challenge President Clinton over the
crisis.

Sheikh Nafiz Azzam's rallying cry - from the Israeli-occupied Gaza Strip - came
amid appeals for caution from many Arab states that backed the West in the Gulf
War. There was virtually no support outside Kuwait for strong US action against
President Saddam Hussein.

The contrast to 1991, when Egypt and Syria led Arab military backing for the
tough stand of George Bush, then US President, was illustrated starkly in two
cartoons in prominent Arabic language newspapers published in London. The first
- depicting President Clinton as a cowboy with a warplane dangling from his
holster, pushing a hesitant UN soldier towards Iraq - was in Al-Hayat , owned by
Saudi Prince Khalid bin Sultan, himself a Gulf War commander.

The other, in Asharq al-Awsat , showed Mr Clinton aiming a rifle at Saddam and
ordinary Iraqis - the dictator alone having no target painted on his chest. It
highlighted concerns that civilians, not the Government, would suffer in any
military action.

Diplomats last night expected Sheikh Azzam's call to receive a largely
sympathetic response. "It is in harmony with a lot of what we are hearing from
the Arab street," one Cairo-based envoy said.

Referring to American threats over Iraq's repeated barring of US weapons
inspectors, the sheikh said: "This gangsterish American act does not only aim at
hurting Iraq, but at terrorising the entire world and to push everyone to give
up what America and Israel want. Arabs and Muslims are required to stand up
against American injustice and American arrogance." He accused the US of
adopting a double standard, enabling Israel re peatedly to avoid respecting
resolutions of the UN Security Council and the General Assembly while trying to
mobilise international support for harsh action to prevent Iraq from doing so.

The sheikh urged Palestinians, led by Yassir Arafat, to halt the faltering peace
negotiations with Israel, begun by the 1993 peace accord, and to boycott a
US-backed Middle East and North Africa economic summit attended by Israel, due
to begin next week in the Gulf state of Qatar. A number of Arab leaders have
already refused invitations.

Although some Arab com mentators have blamed Iraq for provoking the latest
crisis, there is scant support in the Arab or wider Muslim world for any tough
US action because of the growing sympathy for Iraqi civilians and bitterness
over the stalled Middle East peace process.

"Strikes on Iraq would throw the region into turmoil and would hurt the Iraqi
people, who cannot be held responsible for the decisions made by their leaders,"
said Suleiman al-Zahrani, Professor of Political Science at King Saud Univeristy
in Riyadh, the Saudi capital.

Amr Moussa, the Egyptian Foreign Minister, said that the crisis "should be dealt
with diplomatically". Syria made clear it was firmly opposed to any new air
strikes. "Any military action against Iraq will naturally be rejected," said
Vice-President Abdul-Halim Khaddam.

UN economic sanctions imposed after the 1990 invasion of Kuwait by Baghdad's
forces have devastated the Iraqi economy, causing widespread hunger.

The new Arab stance coincides with signs that President Clinton is at last ready
to take diplomatic action to increase pressure against Israel's hardline
policies on expanding Jewish settlements. He has so far refused overtures to
arrange an expected summit with Binyamin Netanyahu when the Israeli leader
visits America next week after a four-day trip to Britain.


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Newspapers Limited

                              60 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           November 16, 1997, Sunday

SHOTGUN ATTACK TERROR FOR PUB PUNTERS;
Shotgun attack at the Clyde Inn in Glasgow's Kingston Street

SECTION: Page 5

LENGTH: 162 words


A wild West style shooting had pub customers ducking for cover.

Two masked gunmen walked into the Clyde Inn armed with shotguns and opened fire
on the gantry, smashing bottles, glasses and a mirror.

Customers and staff threw themselves to the floor in terror and the gunmen made
their escape from the bar to a getaway car.

Stumped detectives say they know of no clear motive for the senseless attack.

The pub, in Glasgow's Kingston Street, is popular with Rangers fans and has no
history of trouble or disorder, said police.

Pub bosses recently installed satellite dishes to pick up live match
transmissions.

No-one from the pub was willing to comment on the weekend shooting, but one
regular said: "It's a miracle no one was killed.

"These two maniacs simply strolled into the bar and opened fire at random.

"It was like something out of a cowboy film -but more frightening."

Detective Chief Inspector Bob House confirmed there was extensive damage.


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              61 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               November 17, 1997

Baseball bat thugs stage terror attack on home

BYLINE: By Jason Johnson

LENGTH: 179 words


AN ARTHRITIC 60- year-old Belfast woman was waiting for her home to be boarded
up today after five of its windows were smashed in an overnight attack.

The culprits, thought to be in their teens, used baseball bats to do the damage
after apparently failing to gain access through the front door.

A blood stain reveals that one of the youths was cut as he tried to reach for
the lock through a glass panel.

The back window of a neighbour's car was smashed as the attackers fled.

Victim's daughter Sandra Dougal said her mother was terrified by the 1am assault
on her Rosapenna Street home in the Oldpark area.

She believes it was a naked sectarian attack on a vulnerable Catholic woman.

"My mother was just going to bed when she heard the glass break," Sandra said.

"This is the second time it has happened.

"She just doesn't want to stay here and live in fear any more."

Sandra said her younger brother also lived at the north Belfast house but
frequently worked late.

The RUC said today that a motive was not immediately clear.


LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1997 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              62 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 17, 1997

Sex attacker terrorises girls

SECTION: Pg.5

LENGTH: 119 words


POLICE are hunting a sex attacker who terrorised four 12-year-old girls at
Swindon on Saturday afternoon.

The man indecently assaulted one of the girls and also exposed himself aboard
the upper deck of a Number 13 Thamesdown bus travelling from the town centre
towards Rodbourne.

The attacker was white, about 5ft 6in tall, aged between 40 to 50, and was
balding with dark hair.

He was wearing dark trousers and a dark three-quarter-length coat, possibly
leather.

He had a distinctive self-inflicted tattoo on his hand spelling LOVE, and a blue
cross on one of his thumbs.

The man ran off the bus near The Grapes pub in Faringdon Road and was chased by
a member of the public, but escaped.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1997 Bristol United Press

                              63 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 18, 1997

Massacre at Luxor: Egypt rejoiced too soon in terror war;
- Bloodiest attack ever on tourists in Egypt leaves 60 holidaymakers dead and
dozens injured at temple/- Six attackers

BYLINE: DAVID HIRST IN BEIRUT

SECTION: The Guardian Foreign Page; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 627 words


THE Egyptian government was until recently convinced that, unlike Algeria, it
was breaking the back of its five-year Islamist insurgency. Perhaps it is.

The evidence has certainly pointed in that direction. The number of killings of
terrorists, police and civilians peaked at 343 in 1995, and fell to 184 in 1996.
It has continued to decline this year.

For 14 months there was not a single act of violence in Cairo; the Gama'a al
-Islamiya (Islamic Group) had clearly been driven back to the Upper Egyptian
regions where the movement took root, and where desperate poverty, a tradition
of vendettas and favourable terrain suit a rearguard action.

In July a group of jailed old-guard leaders of the Gama'a and another Islamist
group, Jihad, urged their followers to lay down their arms. Other leaders
endorsed the call, including the Gama'a's spiritual chief, Sheikh Omar Abdul
Rahman, from his prison cell in New York.

Then came September's attack on German tourists in Cairo. Nine died when three
gunmen set fire to a bus outside the Cairo Museum.

The government passed off this severe shock, not very plausibly, as the isolated
act of a "madman" and his brother. It had nothing to do with the Islamic
"terror", it said, and in no way portended a revival of the Gama'a campaign.

Yesterday's massacre was outside another shrine, the Temple of Hatshepsut at
Luxor, which last month hosted a glittering performance of Verdi's Aida to
consecrate the tourist industry's triumphant comeback.

This was terror on a truly "Algerian" scale, the most devastating single attack
since the insurgency began. It will wreak havoc on tourism.

Nor could it possibly have been just an isolated act. No one has claimed
responsibility, but whether it was the Gama'a, Jihad or another splinter group,
it is part and parcel of the Islamist terror.

The government will argue that the very barbarism and scale of the violence are
evidence of the perpetrators' suicidal desperation.

That they have grown more brutal - more "Algerian" in style - is without doubt.
After the Aida performance they killed nine policemen - more than in any single
operation before - binding them hand and foot, and machine-gunning their heads
to a pulp.

The government will also argue that such gratuitous savagery is characteristic
of dissidents who have rejected the will of the majority, who try to make up in
horror what they lack in intrinsic strength.

The flaw in these arguments is that Islamic activism has come in waves, and the
dying gasps of one generation can be the stirrings of a new - more violent -
one.

Unconditional surrender, the Cairo Times wrote recently, has been standard for
Egyptian opposition movements. The Communists did it in 1965, the non-violent
but illegal Muslim Brotherhood did it last year. But younger militants split off
and started new movements of their own. Now could be the turn of the Islamists.

There may be only a few dozen diehards left in the sugar plantations, caves and
man-made tunnels of Upper Egypt, but they have done more damage in the three
months since the ceasefire than in any month before it. And the Luxor atrocity
will vastly exacerbate the conditions in which terror thrives.

As a human rights activist said: "The old generation may be tired, but even if
only one in 10 of the younger ones are ready to go on, that is enough to pass on
the torch to a whole new generation."

* Sixty-six men charged with Islamic militancy went on trial at an army court in
Egypt yesterday at about the same time as the Luxor attack took place. They
pleaded not guilty, at the Heikstep army base 12 miles west of Cairo, to charges
including membership of the Gama'a and plotting to kill state officials.


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              64 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 18, 1997

Eight Britons shot dead as terrorists attack tour buses

BYLINE: Elizabeth Buie

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 906 words


SEVENTY-EIGHT people, including up to eight British tourists, were killed
yesterday in a three-hour gun battle in the ruins of Luxor when Islamic
fundamentalists launched their bloodiest attack in Egypt.

Among the dead, 69 were said to have been tourists, the majority of them Swiss,
German, and Japanese, six were assailants, and three Egyptian police.

The Foreign Office said last night that six Britons were confirmed dead in the
massacre. Two more Britons are said to be missing.

Among the wounded there 16 foreigners and eight Egyptians.

Professor Paul Wilkinson of St Andrews University's International Relations
department, said the attack was probably carried out as an act of vengeance by
the Gema'a Islamiya (Islamic Group) following the jailing of about 100 of its
members.

Throughout the day, the death toll and accounts of the sequence of events
varied.

Tourist police said that six men in police uniforms had flagged down a bus
carrying Japanese tourists. They boarded it and shot the occupants with assault
rifles near Hatshepsut temple, on the west bank of the Nile.

Two policemen fired at the attackers but were shot dead. The gunmen then
hijacked a second bus and killed its passengers, mainly French, Swiss, and
German tourists, before driving it into nearby hills and abandoning it.

An American tourist, Matthew Moyer, told CNN television what happened next.

"We ran to the tomb because we didn't know where the shots were coming from and
we saw one soldier run over an adjoining hill with his gun drawn. At that point
the shots continued for quite some time.

"Probably about half an hour later, soldiers showed up with AK-47s and what
appeared to be grenade launchers and went up into the surrounding hills and we
heard shots continuing after that."

Egyptian witnesses said police had taken a long time to arrive after the
shooting began and that they believed the gunmen had killed themselves in the
mountains. However, the Egyptian Interior Ministry said that six gunmen had
tried to escape in an empty tour bus but were cornered and killed.

One security source in Luxor said a seventh attacker had escaped. Some reports
spoke of 11 gunmen being involved.

In another report, police claimed the attackers had burst into the courtyard of
the Hatshepsut Temple and fired indiscriminately at tourists who had disembarked
from a bus.

Mohammed Nasser, an archaeologist in Luxor, said the attackers opened fire when
a large group of tourists was about to enter the mortuary temple for the ancient
Egyptian queen, Hatshepsut. The tourists panicked and tried to hide behind
pillars, said Nasser.

About 100 Egyptians are believed to have gathered at the temple as police
brought the bodies of three attackers down from the mountain. Some spat on the
uncovered corpses and others shouted "No to terrorism."

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said Britain sympathised with the Egyptian
Government "with whom we stand together in condemning this sickening act of
violence".

Prime Minister Tony Blair phoned the Egyptian president to express solidarity in
the fight against terrorism wherever it may be.

The state-run Cairo television referred to the attackers as "terrorist
elements", a phrase reserved for Islamic militants who have been campaigning to
oust President Hosni Mubarak's secular government and replace it with strict
Muslim rule. There was no immediate claim of responsibility, however.

Militants who have staged attacks in the past have fought for the imposition of
Islamic law, including a ban on alcohol, the veiling of women, and a tax on
religious minorities, They consider it a religious duty to fight the government
for not imposing the code, known as Sharia.

A curfew was imposed in Luxor, one of Egypt's top tourist destinations, 315
miles south of Cairo. In Luxor, a British tourist told of how he felt he was
"caught in a war zone" in the wake of the massacre.

John Ainscough, from Leytonstone, London, said terrified Britons were staying
inside their hotels and contacting worried relatives while waiting to be flown
home.

"There is just utter terror and confusion," he added as British holidaymakers
were leaving for flights home.

Saga Holidays, which specialises in breaks for the over-50s, said it was
bringing all its clients out of Egypt and cancelling flights to the country.

Thomson, the UK's biggest holiday company, said it was cancelling its three
Egypt-bound flights tomorrow and flying home early any clients who no longer
wanted to stay in Egypt.

Other tour operators were also offering their clients the chance to come home as
well as offering those due to fly out to Egypt a full refund or a change of
destination.

The Tourist Minister for Egypt, Mamdouh el-Beltagi, said that Egypt was as safe
as any country in the world for visitors, despite the attack.

In September, nine German tourists and their Egyptian bus driver were killed by
two brothers, who said they were defending Islam, in an attack carried outside
the Egyptian Museum in Cairo. In 1996, 18 Greeks were killed by Islamic
militants in Cairo who had apparently mistaken the victims for Israelis.

The Foreign Office, which has advised Britons not to travel to Luxor, last night
issued two emergency numbers for people concerned that relatives or friends
might have been caught up in the incident - 0171-270-1500 and 0171-839 -1010.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: The aftermath of a shoot-out: soldiers carry the body of a terrorist
after the carnage reached a bloody conclusion in the mountains.  Picture: ALADIN
NABY/Reuters

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              65 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          November 20, 1997, Thursday

WOMAN'S SEX ATTACK TERROR;
Manaic subjects a woman to a sex attack in the Grassmarket area of Edinburgh.

SECTION: Page 46

LENGTH: 43 words


A scruffy maniac subjected a woman to a terrifying sex attack.

The man knocked the 28-year-old to the ground and assaulted her after asking for
change.

Police yesterday called for witnesses to the attack in the Grassmarket area of
Edinburgh on Monday.


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              66 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 20, 1997

World news in brief: Jewish student dead in 'terrorist attack'

BYLINE: REUTERS, JERUSALEM.

SECTION: The Guardian Foreign Page; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 101 words


A JEWISH seminary student was shot dead and another was seriously wounded by
automatic weapons fire in Jerusalem's Old City early this morning in unclear
circumstances.

A spokesman for the Magen David Adom ambulance service confirmed that the two
students had been taken away from the area. Police could not confirm an Israel
Radio report that the shootings, shortly after midnight, were part of "an
apparent terrorist attack".

Witnesses said a large police presence was at the site and several people had
been taken into custody. The ancient walled Old City is a popular tourist site.


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              67 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           November 21, 1997, Friday

STROKE VICTIM IN HAMMER ATTACK TERROR;
Martin Kerrigan attack by a vigilante gang who mistook him for a burglar.

BYLINE: Exclusive; By Stuart Griffiths

SECTION: Page 9

LENGTH: 247 words


A stroke victim was subjected to a horror claw hammer attack by a vigilante gang
who mistook him for a burglar.

Martin Kerrigan, 23, suffered two broken ankles, a broken shin, hammer blows to
his jaw, a head fracture and bruising to his legs and thighs.

And last night Martin said he thought he was going to die in the attack.

He went on: "They were trying to kill me and I have found out they were after
somebody else."

The attack happened as Martin, who lives alone at his home in Glaive Road,
Knightswood, Glasgow, was waiting for friends to come round and watch
Wednesday's Celtic-Rangers match on TV.

Seven thugs in their 20s kicked in his front door and surged into the house.

Martin said: "I heard the crash as the door was kicked in. I called out, 'What
is going on?' when this mob burst in and attacked me.

"I thought it was never going to end and if it did, then I was going to die."

After he got out of hospital, Martin discovered he had been the victim of a
mistaken identity tit-for-tat attack.

He said: "I learned that certain people thought I had burgled a house but I
didn't.

"I was a drug addict until four years ago when I took a stroke.

"Since then, I have been living here, and there is no way I could have broken
into anyone's house.

"I have been crippled for something I didn't do. It will be weeks or months
before I can walk again."

Police appealed for anyone who saw anything unusual on Glaive Road on Wednesday
to come forward.


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              68 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 24, 1997

Protect me from terror attack, pleads Adams

BYLINE: Fiona Cairns

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 245 words


SINN FEIN leader Gerry Adams could be given Government protection from
terrorists following his party's admittance to the peace talks.

Lawyers acting for Mr Adams and his deputy Martin McGuinness are believed to
have asked the Northern Ireland Office if they are eligible for the sort of top
security given to the province's judges, MPs and senior civil servants.

That includes bodyguards, armour-plated cars and advice on making their homes
safe from attacks.

The move comes amid increasing reports of splits within the republican movement
over the ceasefire and the direction of the peace process.

Today the Government confirmed that it had been contacted by Sinn Fein's lawyers
about personal security, but a Northern Ireland Office spokesman said they could
not reveal what the response was.

It is believed that Mr Adams and Mr McGuinness, both elected MPs although they
have refused to take the oath of allegiance to the Crown, could be eligible now
they are taking part in the Stormont peace talks.

Although never confirmed, there were reports that Mr Adams received extra
security during the IRA cease-fire two years ago because of fears of reprisals
from within the republican movement.

The Sinn Fein leader will visit Mr Blair in Downing Street before Christmas in a
historic but controversial trip. Today Democratic Unionist leader Ian Paisley
was expected to protest angrily to Mr Blair in London about Mr Adams's visit.


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: GERRY ADAMS: BELIEVED TO HAVE ASKED THE NORTHERN IRELAND OF FICE FOR
TOP PEOPLE'S SECURITY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              69 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          November 27, 1997, Thursday

MACHETE MANIAC TERROR;
Machete attacker terrorised neighbours after he tried to hack his way into where
victim was hiding

SECTION: Page 19

LENGTH: 118 words


A machete maniac terrorised residents in a flat after his victim sought
sanctuary there.

Alistair Main tried to chop his way into the Edinburgh flat. Then he stacked bin
bags against the door and set fire to them.

The High Court in Edinburgh heard Main had threatened a passer-by with the 18-
inch machete because he thought he had been staring at his driving.

When the victim ran to his friends' flat and took refuge Main, 35, a prisoner,
followed him and tried to break his way in.

Main had earlier admitted three assault charges.

His counsel John Beckett said Main, who used the machete for his work at a
central heating firm, had taken Ecstasy before the attacks.

Sentence was deferred.


LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              70 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      December 2, 1997, Tuesday Edition 1

Car attack terror for motorist

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 33

LENGTH: 160 words


   A WOMAN escaped serious injury when a concrete block was hurled through her
car window.

The attack took place barely 100 yards from where a police officer cheated death
in a similar incident four years ago.

In the latest a woman, 41, was driving her Vauxhall Astra car in Nookside, near
Pennywell Road, Sunderland, when the concrete was hurled by three thugs.

It smashed the windscreen but she escaped injury.

Police spokesman said the woman who has not been identified but lives locally
was deeply shocked by her ordeal.

The youths are all aged 13-15, are slim and wore dark clothing. Police appealed
to anyone who saw them run off after the incident at to contact officers on
[0191] 4547 555.

In February 1993 PC John Robinson was hit on the head with a brick hurled
through the windscreen of his patrol car in Pennywell Road.

He suffered horrific injuries and was later forced to take early retirement from
Northumbria Police.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORRIFIC INJURIES- PC John Robinson

                Copyright 1997 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              71 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 2, 1997, Tuesday

MAN, 62, IN TERROR RAID;
STRETFORD OAP RECOVERING FROM ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 62 words


A Man is recovering at his home after three teenagers broke in and tried to
smother him.

The 62-year-old was watching TV at his house in Stretford when the trio smashed
their way through the front door, forced him into a bedroom and put a pillow
round his face.

His attackers were aged between 15 and 18. Property worth more than pounds 2,000
was taken.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              72 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                December 8, 1997

London Pcs relive gun attack terror

BYLINE: Justin Davenport

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 291 words


TWO POLICE officers have told how they came under a hail of fire as they tried
to arrest a suspect on a notorious north London council estate.

The two officers, Pc Robin Dodd and Wpc Aimee Blease, described how the man
opened fire on them from a range of five yards - but, incredibly, all the
bullets missed.

Wpc Blease, only four weeks on the beat, said: "We were on day shift and walking
a usual beat along the Stonebridge estate when we came towards a man coming out
of one of the tower blocks."

The officers approached the man and Pc Dodd said: "The area is known for its
drug dealing. As the man was behaving suspiciously we decided to stop and search
him."

In an interview with the force newspaper, The Job, he said: "He started to run
and then pulled out a gun and shot at me three times from five yards."

Seven shots were fired, five at the officers. "He was so close to me and the
bullets all missed," Pc Dodd said. "I thought they must be blanks, but they
weren't."

The incident last month came only days before the murders of the so-called
Yardie gangsters, Marcus Charles and Rudolph "Rudi" King, within 26 hours of
each other. Scotland Yard has set up a special squad to investigate links
between these incidents as well as similar shootings in the area.

It has also emerged that Kil-burn has established a special unit to deal with
gun-related crime. The five-man team gathers intelligence on shootings and
mounts operations against armed criminals.

Chief Superintendent Paul Green, in charge of the Kilburn division, said: "It's
only a minority of the population in the area around Willesden, Harlesden and
Kilburn who are involved and I am very confident that the culprits will get
caught."


LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              73 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          December 17, 1997, Wednesday

THE JACKAL ADMITS TERRORRIST ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 222 words


THE man known as Carlos the Jackal, Venezuelan-born Ilich Ramirez Sanchez,
yesterday admitted for the first time in court his involvement in terror
attacks.

The Paris court where he is being tried for murder examined his alleged links to
the Soviet KGB, and his mission with the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine.

While the 48-year-old militant was evasive about the KGB, he admitted he was
part of a special PFLP group in the 1970s.

"We were making war against the Zionists. It was a military mission," Ramirez
said, when pressed by Judge Yves Corneloup.

The judge asked: "Does that mean taking hostages and executions, things like
that?"

"Yes, and hijacking planes," Ramirez said.

Ramirez is on trial for the 1975 killings in Paris of two police investigators
and a Lebanese member of the PFLP.

The avowed "international revolutionary" said a description of his life by
Daniel Aberard, a police investigator, "leads people by the nose; it manipulates
them". He called it "a little cop's work".

And he attacked a 1979 interview of him published in the Arabic newspaper Al
Watan, which quoted him as describing the killing of the two police officers and
the Lebanese in 1975.

"It wasn't an interview," he said. The author of the article "wasn't a
journalist, he was a poet", he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              74 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               December 17, 1997

Journey of terror;
Sex attacker abducted me then told my husband to bring lingerie, wife tells
trial

BYLINE: Chris Mackay

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 651 words


A YOUNG woman wept in a court yesterday as she told how she was abducted at
knifepoint and sexually assaulted during seven hours of continual terror.

Her ordeal began when a stranger pounced as she was about to get in to her car
and didn't end until they had to stop for petrol after a 186-mile trip through
the countryside.

The woman, a 29-year-old chartered accountant, was told she would not be killed
or raped if she did what she was told - but her captor warned her that he was
capable of murder.

During the drive, she was forced to commit indecent acts and assaulted and
robbed, the High Court in Edinburgh was told.

The woman was giving evidence against Peter Syme, also known as Andrew
McWilliam, 43, described as a prisoner at Perth.

He denies abducting the woman, indecently assaulting her, forcing her to commit
indecent acts and assaulting and robbing her.

The alleged offences were said to have taken place on August 27 around the
Tayside area.

The court was told Syme came up behind the woman in a Montrose street, grabbed
her keys and ordered her into the passenger seat of her car just after 5pm.

She said he pointed a knife at her. 'He told me not to look at him. He locked me
in, told me to put my seat belt on and keep my eyes to the front,' she added.

'I was petrified. I asked him why he had taken me. He just said if it wasn't me
it would have been somebody else.

'He asked what I did, how much money I earned, what my dad did, what my husband
did and how much money would I be able to get out of the bank with my cards.'
The man had tied her hands with black stockings and after half an hour, he
stopped the car in a lonely farm road and sexually assaulted her, the woman told
the court.

He cut her bra straps, forced her to remove her underwear and made her commit
sex acts. But he did not rape her. He then used her mobile phone to order her
husband to pack a bag containing underwear and bring it to a certain place.

He complained the woman's pants were not 'skimpy' enough and ordered her husband
to include stockings and suspenders in the bag of underwear.

She overheard part of the conversation. Her captor told her husband: 'I have got
your wife. Do exactly what you're told and she won't be harmed.' The woman said
her abductor asked her about her sex life and if she dressed up in nurses' or
schoolgirls' uniforms to please her husband.

She answered all his questions because she feared for her life.

'I was petrified. I was extremely frightened and shaking,' the woman said.

During the drive she complained that her bonds were so tight that her arms had
'gone to sleep'. Her captor replied: 'You have been good so far so I will untie
you.' He retied her hands later and made her hold her hands in front of her. She
told the court: 'He tied and retied me so many times I lost count.'

The woman finally managed to escape nearly seven hours after her ordeal began
when they stopped at a service station in Brechin to get petrol.

While the man was filling up the tank she slipped her bonds and ran from the
car.

She fought him off as he tried to lift her back in and managed to run into the
service station shop where a man phoned the police as her captor fled.

She told the court: 'I was just flailing my arms and he was trying to lift me
up. I was shouting "I have been abducted. He has a knife".' She said she then
spoke to police on the telephone and told them how her husband had been ordered
to go to a certain location with the bag of underwear.

The woman remembered that her captor wore red white and blue underpants.

Asked by Sam Cathcart, prosecuting, whether she could identify her abductor in
court, she replied: 'Oh yes. I would know him.' She then pointed towards Syme in
the dock and said: 'He is sitting there between two police officers.' The trial
before Lord Philip continues.


LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ESCAPE ROUTE: BRECHIN WHERE THE WOMAN MANAGED TO FLEE AFTER THE
TERRIFYING 186-MILE CAR RIDE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              75 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          December 18, 1997, Thursday

JUSTICE PLAN IN BID TO END ATTACKS BY TERROR GANGS

BYLINE: Jackie Mckeown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 333 words


A COMMUNITY justice system aimed at ending the scourge of so-called "punishment
attacks" was unveiled yesterday.

The model, devised by criminal justice specialists, involves training volunteers
to investigate complaints, organise patrols and, as a last resort, boycotts.

The investigators would refer cases to community forums where disputes would be
heard and solutions, including damages payments, programme referrals and
community service, reached.

"It is important to stress that what is being proposed is not an alternative to
the existing formal justice system," said Queen's University criminologist
Kieran McEvoy.

"Rather, we view this as a contribution to the debate on ending violent
punishment beatings and shootings."

Mike Ritchie, co-author of the report based on discussions with community
activists, business people and politicians in west Belfast, said that some
aspects may appear controversial.

"This is a system based explicitly on non-violence and respect for international
human rights standards and will operate within the law.

"It is now widely understood that the formal justice system cannot deal
effectively with all anti-social crime and that more creative and imaginative
measures, which involve offenders, victims and the community, have much more
chance of success."

The system was founded on restorative justice which shifted the focus from
punishment and retribution to "offenders being accountable for the hurt they
have caused, victims being empowered by a process in which they are directly
involved and communities taking ownership and responsibility for tackling
anti-social crime in their area".

Niacro deputy director Brian Gormally, who also worked on the document, said
trained volunteers who make up a community liaison team would investigate
complaints and provide mediation.

"It is not our intention to develop an alternative to the RUC," he said.

"We are not talking about some form of community CID here."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NEW ROLE: Pauline Collins will be at her most diplomatic

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              76 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          December 18, 1997, Thursday

MACHETE MAN JAILED;
Terror road rage attack;
Alistair Main sentenced to five years for road rage attack

BYLINE: Gordon Mcilwraith

SECTION: Page 31

LENGTH: 182 words


A drugged-up road rage driver was jailed for five years yesterday for a machete
attack.

Crazed Alistair Main, 35, chased a bystander for 400 yards after he bumped his
car on a pavement.

And when the victim reached a friend's house Main hacked the front door with the
lethal weapon and set fire to rubbish outside.

The High Court in Edinburgh heard Main was high on Ecstasy when the incident
happened earlier this year.

Andrew Miller and his girlfriend saw Main erratically parking the car in the
city's Wester Hailes area.

He emerged from the vehicle brandishing the 18-inch weapon and screamed: "What
are you looking at? I'll cut you up and kill you."

Andrew managed to get his girlfriend to safety, but Main chased him to the
fourth-floor flat in Hailesland Gardens.

Main demanded to be let into the house and began hacking at the door with the
machete and thrusting the blade through the letterbox.

He then stacked rubbish bags against the door and set fire to them before the
police arrived.

Main, of Wester Hailes Road, Edinburgh, admitted three assault charges.


LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              77 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           December 19, 1997, Friday

GANG IN SEX TERROR ATTACK ON WOMAN;
Four men assault woman in Edinburgh

SECTION: Page 35

LENGTH: 79 words


Four drunken thugs carried out a vicious sex assault on a woman.

The gang forced the 21-year-old into an alley and assaulted her.

Last night, it was believed the men were from Newcastle and staying in Edinburgh
for the weekend.

The victim was waiting for a taxi in the city's Grassmarket area early on Sunday
when the attack took place.

The men then walked off.

A police spokesman said: "This was a terrifying attack on a woman who was
enjoying a night out."


LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              78 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          December 20, 1997, Saturday

NEWS BITES;
Terror attack on frail OAP;
George Dignall attacked John Wright with a knife during robbery

SECTION: Page 19

LENGTH: 71 words


A teenager slashed a pensioner who fought back after the intruder terrified his
recuperating wife. The High Court in Edinburgh heard George Dignall, 19, broke
into the sheltered city home of John Wright, 71, armed with a knife. Mr Wright
needed 14 stitches to his face. Dignall, of Greendykes Road, Edinburgh, admitted
breaking into the couple's home, assaulting and robbing them. Sentence was
deferred until next month.


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              79 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           December 23, 1997, Tuesday

TERROR ATTACK APPEAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 127 words


THE anti-terror group Families Against Intimidation and Terror has issued a plea
for anyone with information about an attack which left a Greencastle man
seriously injured to contact the police.

The incident happened at around 7.30am yesterday morning. The 24-year-old victim
was attacked by a number of masked men who beat him with baseball bats.

His right leg was broken and he required staples to a head wound. He also
suffered cuts and bruising to his body.

A FAIT spokesman said: "We would ask anyone with information about this attack
to contact the police and put these thugs behind bars before they hospitalise
anyone else."

Anyone with information can contact the police on (01232) 650222 or call
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1997 Century Newspapers Limited

                              80 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               December 24, 1997

Man shot in terror attack

BYLINE: By Paul Connolly

LENGTH: 108 words


A MAN was shot in the left leg in a paramilitary-style attack on the outskirts
of Belfast today.

The man, believed to be in his mid-20s, was shot in Derriaghy around 7am.

He was taken to hospital but his condition was not immediately known.

Anti-terror campaigners have warned of an increasing rate of so-called
"punishment" attacks in recent months.

Not counting today's incident, there have been nine republican paramilitary
-style shootings and 25 beatings since July, many of which have been blamed on
the IRA.

Loyalists, including the UVF and UDA, shot 11 people and carried out 28 beatings
during the same period.


LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1997 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              81 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                               December 28, 1997

TERROR OF OLD FOLK ATTACKED BY RAIDERS

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 196 words


A BURGLAR fractured an elderly man's skull with a jemmie when he was caught
trying to loot a house in one of several violent robberies over Christmas.

The 80-year-old victim confronted the burglar on his stairs after he returned to
his home in Winchester, Hampshire, from a party with relatives on Boxing Day.

He was beaten about the head and body and left with the skull injury, broken
ribs and a fractured hand.

While police last night searched for two teenagers who are thought to be
responsible for several burglaries in the area, the pensioner was said to be
'comfortable' in hospital.

In Ayrshire, three masked men brandishing baseball bats forced their way into a
country house and tied up two women, aged 43 and 78, and a 58-year-old man,
before driving away in the family's blue Mercedes sports car with stolen
jewellery, cash, guns and ammunition.

In Brierly Hill, West Midlands, 89-year-old blind, deaf and disabled John
Fleetwood was rescued from his bed after thieves set fire to his home.

In Paddington, West London, an 84-year-old woman had a hip and wrist fractured
by muggers as she walked to Midnight Mass on Christmas Eve.


LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              82 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      December 29, 1997, Monday Edition 1

Girl, 12, in terror attack

SECTION: REGIONAL NEWS, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 129 words


   A YOUNG girl suffered a terrifying ordeal when she was attacked by a man in
broad daylight in the Scottish Borders town of Selkirk.

The girl, 12, was walking on steps known locally as The Kyber Pass or the 100
Steps between The Valley and Mill Street, Selkirk, when she was pushed to the
ground and kicked on the body.

Her attacker was described as 6ft tall, of stocky build, with short dark hair
and wearing a dark checked jacket and blue jeans.

She was taken to Borders General Hospital by a friend and found to have minor
bruising to her ribs.

Police at Selkirk are anxious to speak to anyone who may have witnessed the
incident, which happened at around 12.30pm on Saturday, or anybody who has
information regarding the man involved in the attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1997 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              83 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      December 30, 1997, Tuesday Edition 1

Gran, 77, in terror attack

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 74 words


   A wheelchair-bound grandmother was terrorised by masked raiders who burst
into her home as she watched television alone on Christmas Day, police revealed
yesterday.

They threatened the woman, 77, with an iron bar in Bean Hill, Milton Keynes,
Buckinghamshire, and wheeled her into the kitchen where they demanded money.

Police said the raiders fled with a substantial amount of cash after the woman
managed to press a panic alarm.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1997 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              84 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            January 2, 1998, Friday

TERRORIST ATTACK IS SWIFTLY CONDEMNED BY POLITICIANS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 777 words


POLITICIANS and police were swift to condemn the terrorist attack on drinkers in
a bar in north Belfast on New Year's Eve.

Deputy Assistant Chief Constable George Livingstone described the latest
terrorist violence as "utter madness".

"If we cannot find an alternative to attempting to solve every problem with guns
or bombs then nothing but grief beckons as we herald in a New Year," said Mr
Livingstone.

He added: "There is no justification for such violence, there is no hope for
ourselves or our children in further violence."

The officer appealed to the terrorists to end the tit-for-tat attacks and
underlined the RUC's determination to bring the culprits to justice.

"Let this be the end of it, for all our sakes. For our part, the police will
devote whatever it takes to bringing to justice those who would threaten the
safety of this society."

Sam Cushnahan, director of Families Against Intimidation and Terror, added his
voice to the condemnation.

"These are despicable and appalling attacks on the eve of a New Year, which
should be a time of hope for both communities," he said.

"Coming as they do in the wake of the two recent tragic murders, these attacks
constitute a worrying spiral of violence."

Ulster Unionist security spokesman Ken Maginnis said his party had been
"betrayed" by the Northern Ireland Office.

He said of the attacks: "It's very sad. It's absolutely tragic that we have
started the New Year off in this way.

"We have all been holding our breath. We all knew the danger there was of
retaliation, and extended retaliation, because the LVF had said it would exact
revenge for the death of Billy Wright."

He and his party did not excuse what had happened "but if you look at what has
happened over the last number of months, with concession after concession after
concession being given to the Provisional IRA, then people here have become so
dispirited they have been not wishing for terror, but saying 'the only thing
that pays is violence'.

"The Secretary of State and her team have done nothing to contradict that
particular notion."

SDLP leader John Hume said he was appalled.

He said: "People who are carrying out these murders obviously want a complete
restoration of violence and the victims will be totally innocent people.

"Their objective is to derail the peace process. That should strengthen the will
not only of all the political parties but of the vast majority of people not to
be knocked off course and remain firmly committed to reaching agreement in a
totally peaceful atmosphere."

Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams claimed the attack had been an attempt at mass
murder.

Fellow SF member Gerry Kelly, who immediately after the shooting claimed the
peace process to be shattered, said: "For our part Sinn Fein will not be
deflected from our peace strategy. Inclusive negotiations leading to a
democratic peace settlement is the only way in which this conflict can be
resolved."

Northern Ireland Security Minister Adam Ingram called it "disgusting, cruel and
futile" and Eire's Foreign Minister David Andrews, who is due back in Belfast on
January 12 for the resumption of talks on Northern Ireland's future, called for
restraint.

PUP leader David Ervine distanced his party from the violence, which he said had
been carried out by "someone who just, I think, probably hates Catholics".

He said that if the Government could adjust the structure of the talks process,
by including confidence-building measures within their scope, his party would
stay at the negotiating table.

"At the moment we are seeing confidence-building measures, concessions, doled
out like sweeties outside the process. They should be housed within the process.
If that were done that would change the circumstances dramatically."

Philip McGarry, of the Alliance Party, appealed to anyone with information on
the incident to contact the police.

"Three years after the republican and loyalist ceasefires, Northern Ireland
remains a deeply divided and fearful society. In 1998 we must do much more to
tackle the fundamental divisions which underpin continued violence and
sectarianism."

Belfast Lord Mayor Alban Maginness called on politicians to renew their efforts
to find a settlement.

"Only that way will we be able to rid our country of such violence for ever," he
said.

Belfast deputy Lord Mayor, Ulster Unionist Jim Rodgers, also condemned the
attack, and said: "There are those in society who are determined to bring about
bloodshed."

Paul Trainor, of the Workers Party, described the shooting as "a brutal and
bloody act of sectarianism".

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GERRY ADAMS: believes the shooting was an attempt at mass murder;; KEN
MAGINNIS: says the UUP has been "betrayed' by the NIO

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              85 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                January 9, 1998

Youths sentenced for terror attack

SECTION: Pg.14

LENGTH: 161 words


FOUR teenagers who attacked two terrified boys at a house in Bristol have all
been sentenced to terms of youth custody.

The ringleader was Michael Edwards, who was trying to find out where his former
girlfriend's new boyfriend was, Bristol Crown Court heard.

Prosecutor Robert Duval said the attack was carried out at a house in Fishponds.
One of the boys was threatened with a knife and kicked in the head and body.

The second was hit in the face by one of the attackers with a chain wrapped
round his fist before also being kicked in the head and body. Both were robbed.

Edwards, aged 19, of Mary Carpenter Place, Montpelier, Bristol, was sentenced to
30 months after admitting being armed with a knife with intent to cause grievous
bodily harm.

Three other teenagers aged 15, 16 and 17 who cannot be named for legal reasons
each admitted two offences of robbery.

The 17-year-old was given two years. The other two were given 15 months.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              86 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 10, 1998, Saturday

Maze prison officers warned over terror attack

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 80 words


Last night it emerged that prison officers at the Maze had warned their
governors that republican inmates were planning an attack on the block where
loyalist terrorist Billy Wright was shot by rooftop gunmen last month.

The BBC's Newsnight produced a memorandum written to governors in September
which said: "Due to recent threats from the INLA that they will burn H6 if the
LVF are returned . . . staff are extremely concerned about the ease of access to
H6 roof."


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              87 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                January 12, 1998

100 killed in terror attack on cinema

BYLINE: Sue Masterman

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 433 words


AN ARMED gang has attacked a village outside Algiers and slaughtered up to 100
people, most of them in a cinema, hospital sources said today.

Last night's attack was one of the bloodiest massacres outside the capital
during a Muslim insurgency and marked the beginning of the conflict's seventh
year.

The attack in Sidi Ahmed, in the so-called "triangle of death" about 12 miles
south of Algiers, began shortly after evening prayers, according to survivors in
hospital.

As the cinema began screening a film, a gang leader yelled: "You should be in
the mosque for the prayer of the taraouih" - a prayer for the current Muslim
holy month of Ramadan prayer - the survivors said. The gang of about 100 men
broke into three groups, the largest of which attacked cinema, shooting,
slashing and hacking their victims, the witnesses said.

Most of the victims were young, said a nurse at Mustapha Hospital.

The hospital sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, put the death toll at
about 100, while the newspaper Liberte reported dozens killed.

At least 70,000 people have died in Algeria since 1991, when the government
annulled elections which the FIS, the main Islamic party, was on the point of
winning.

The death toll this year so far is 1,000 or more, beginning with slaughter of
over 400 people in three villages around the western town of Relizane, near
Chekala.

Last night the attackers struck as many families sat down to the traditional
evening meal, breaking the daytime fast held during Ramadan. It is normally a
time of celebration when families and friends get together.

While the Algerian government blames Muslim extremists - in particular the GIA,
the armed wing of the FIS - for the massacres, the finger of suspicion is being
pointed increasingly at the government itself. It has long been whispered among
the survivors themselves that their well organised and equipped attackers had
some firm connection to the Algerian government's armed forces or police.

They point out that many raids take place near Algerian army barracks, but that
the army never intervenes and the police always arrive too late to do anything.
No raider has ever been caught or arrested, let alone brought to trial.

The Algerian government has dismissed all attempts from outside the country to
intervene, dismissing the massacres as "an internal affair" and any bid to start
an inquiry as "interference".

Britain, as EU President, has launched an attempt to send a fact-finding
mission.

A US attempt to launch an international inquiry has been rebuffed.


LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CHILDREN OF TRAGEDY: A BOY AND HIS SISTER, WHOSE FAMILY WAS KILLED BY
TERRORISTS, WEEP IN THE VILLAGE OF CHEKALA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              88 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 15, 1998, Thursday

SOLDIER WHO SHOT COP FACES COURT-MARTIAL;
 SHE FEARED TERRORIST ATTACK;
 WOMAN WHO SHOT RUC OFFICER MAY FACE COURT-MARTIAL

BYLINE: Conor Hanna

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 476 words


THE woman undercover soldier who accidentally shot an RUC cop may face a court
-martial, it was revealed last night.

Police immediately announced a top level investigation into the amazing blunder,
which left the officer fighting for his life.

He was blasted in the chest after a high-speed car chase through Belfast.

The soldier, who was working on a secret anti-terrorist operation, thought she
was being chased by a paramilitary gun gang.

A security source said last night: "Obviously something went wrong last night
and the inquiry will leave no stone unturned when it looks for someone to blame.

"There's been a big-time blunder.""

The police patrol, driving an armoured unmarked Ford Sierra, spotted the woman
in the early hours of yesterday morning. She was cruising the streets of North
Belfast's 'murder triangle' between the Loyalist Shankill Road and Republican
Ardoyne.

They followed her car on to the Crumlin Road and gave chase when she accelerated
away at high speed, convinced they had rumbled a terrorist getaway car or a
joyrider.

But the panicked squaddie thought her cover had been blown and lost control,
smashing into a roundabout.

As the cops pulled up the woman soldier cried: "Squaddie!" and fired several
shots from her Browning 9mm pistol.

She hit the RUC man in the chest before realising he was a cop. The woman was
taken into police custody for questioning. The General Officer Commanding will
decide whether to take any action against her.

Security sources said the woman soldier was a member of the top secret British
Army anti-terrorist squad known as 14th Int (Intelligence), an elite group
specialising in dangerous close-target reconnaissance of terrorists.

A source said. "Normally, Special Branch, the RUC's anti-terror squad, will
advise the relevant police stations when an operation is ongoing in a certain
area and the stations will tell their uniform officers to stay away.

"When there is a sensitive military operation under way, it could be
surveillance or meeting agents, the uniform people will be told an area is out
of bounds for two hours or so and they are ordered not to patrol in it so as not
to compromise the operation."

Yesterday Belfast's Assistant Chief Constable Bill Stewart said it was obvious
normal procedures governing undercover operations had not been followed.He said:
""There are very strict guidelines covering police and military operations
designed to prevent such situations.

"We will be examining every facet of his incident and will take whatever action
is neccessary to prevent any re-occurrence."

The probe into the mix-up, which pitted the RUC against their British Army
allies, will be lead by a Detective Supt from the Belfast area - probably Sam
Kinkaid, a cop famed for his methodical approach to investigations.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCENE: Police seal off the roundabout in Belfast where an undercover
squaddie shot a policeman following a high-speed car chase

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              89 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           January 20, 1998, Tuesday

FOUR SHOTS FROM POLICE MARKSMAN HALT CRAZED DOG;
OAP hurt in terror attack;
Woman attacked by Japanese Akita dog as she tried to protect her pet dogs

BYLINE: Paul Byrne

SECTION: Page 17

LENGTH: 238 words


A vicious dog is gunned down by a police marksman after it had savaged a
pensioner who was trying to protect her pets.

The six-stone Akita - a Japanese fighting dog - mauled 68-year-old Lilian
Robertson as she walked her pet mongrels, Sparky and Lady.

Brave Lilian tried to shield her dogs and the two-year-old brute turned on her
instead.

After the horrific attack on Friday, Lilian needed five hours of surgery
including skin grafts.

Her left wrist was torn open and shattered and she had pins inserted to help re-
build the joint.

Yesterday, husband Charlie, 65, said: "It is a terrible, terrible thing to have
happened.

"My wife can hardly bring herself to talk about it. She will be scarred for the
rest of her life."

Witness Jan Jub said: "We heard screams and I saw this massive dog pinning down
a smaller dog. The woman was trying to pull her own dog away. It was awful. She
was covered in blood. "

Police marksmen were sent on to the streets of Leeds, Yorkshire, to find the dog
after it ran off.

Eventually it was cornered but it took four shots before it was stopped in its
tracks.

A police spokesman said: "It was a vicious animal. It had to be destroyed."

Akitas have attacked a number of children sparking calls for them to be banned.

In August last year, four- year-old Jamie Longridge, of Clydebank, needed 124
stitches and was scarred for life after being mauled by a ten-stone Akita.


LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1998 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              90 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 24, 1998

Murder follows UFF split;
Attack suggests loyalist terror group could be divided

BYLINE: JOHN MULLIN

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 450 words


A CATHOLIC was murdered in north Belfast last night, two hours after the Ulster
Freedom Fighters raised hopes that it was calling an end to its new campaign of
violence.

Suspicion for the attack fell on the maverick Loyalist Volunteer Force. But
security sources say it has links to dissident UFF elements. It is thought
responsible for five of the killings. The LVF claimed responsibility for a
killing in north Belfast on New Year's Eve which was instead carried out by the
UFF.

Last night's killing brings the terrorist death toll in Northern Ireland to 10
in seven weeks. Five have died this week alone, in the worst spate of violence
since June 1994. Eight of the victims were Catholics.

The leadership of the UFF had earlier announced that it was returning to its
ceasefire after Ronnie Flanagan, the RUC chief constable, blamed the loyalist
paramilitary group for three of the recent murders. The UFF called its actions a
"measured military response" to "republican aggression".

Mo Mowlam, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, expressed great concern at
the UFF statement. She said the British and Irish governments would decide next
week whether the Ulster Democratic Party, which speaks for the UFF and its
parent body, the Ulster Defence Association, could continue in the talks after
hearing from its leadership.

"The British government views the UFF statement with grave concern. I shall
consider its implication very carefully, particularly following the very callous
murder tonight.

"I welcome that it appeared to indicate that there will be no further UFF
involvement in terrorism for the present.  The acknowledgement that it has
participated in such activity and the indication that the organisation may
return to violence in future are extremely worrying."

Last night's victim was named as Liam Conway, aged 39. He had been laying gas
pipes when he was shot in the head and chest as he sat in a digger. He died
despite emergency surgery at the Mater Hospital.

The LVF remains opposed to the ceasefire, as does the Irish National Liberation
Army, its republican mirror-image.

The UFF statement followed a meeting between the Ulster Democratic Party and the
terror groups. It gives the party a fighting chance of staying in the
negotiations, but masks dissent among UDA/UFF members, many of whom favour a
return to full-scale war.

Mr Flanagan revealed on Thursday that the UFF was behind killings of housing
executive Eddie Treanor, 31, taxi driver Larry Brennan, 51, and factory worker
Ben Hughes, 55, all shot in Belfast.

Yesterday's attack came soon after the arrests of 12 men in connection with the
recent loyalist killings.


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              91 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          February 12, 1998, Thursday

GIRL, 15, IN SEX ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 201 words


A sex attacker who has preyed on women in Birmingham is feared to have struck
again after a 15-year-old girl was indecently assaulted.

The girl, from West Heath, was walking from Chaddesley Road to Vardon Way in
Kings Norton when she was grabbed by a man, dragged into bushes and indecently
assaulted.

A West Midlands Police spokesman said the girl was unhurt but was left extremely
shocked.

The attack took place between 10.30pm and midnight on Monday but details were
released only yesterday.

Her attacker was described as a white man, aged about 30, wearing a black
jacket.

Detectives working on Operation Blackpool, the investigation into more than 40
sex attacks on lone women in south Birmingham, will now examine the latest
assault.

One man has already been arrested and charged with some of the attacks but
detectives have mounted a huge operation to find at least one other man they
believe is responsible. Many of the assaults have also included robbery.

A spokesman for Kings Heath Police said last night: "The case is being linked to
the attacks covered by Operation Blackpool and I believe it will now be taken
over by the detectives working on that operation."

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              92 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           February 16, 1998, Monday

TERRORISTS KILL 36 AS ATTACKS FLARE

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 248 words


Muslim terrorists have killed 36 Algerian civilians in a flare-up of attacks
coinciding with a military offensive against rebels on the outskirts of Algiers.

Terrorists killed 11 civilians at Sidi Amer, a small community in M'sila
province at the weekend.

Earlier a total of 21 people were killed, their throats slit, in two attacks.

In one, terrorists stormed a community in Tamesna, in the south-western region
of Saida, and slit the throats of 17 people, including some members of a pro
-government militia.

They also wounded five people in the attack.

And four civilians had their throats cut when they were caught at a roadblock in
Ain el Melh, in Medea province.

Earlier, attackers slit the throats of three civilians at a roadblock between
Medea area, 45 miles from Algiers, and the neighbouring Ain Defla region.

Ten civilians were killed last Wednesday in a similar attack in the western area
of Telagh in Sidi Bel Abbes province.

In the western province of Tlemcen, 275 miles from Algiers, attackers cut the
throat of a shepherd in Zahra hamlet.

And on Thursday five schoolgirls were abducted at the gate of their school in
Cheraga district, a western suburb of Algiers city. The girls were bundled into
a van and driven off.

In Sidi Moussa, south of Algiers, the army shelled a group of over 70 rebels
holed up in their bases overnight on Thursday, killing several terrorists. The
action followed a tip-off from a rebel who had defected.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              93 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      February 17, 1998, Tuesday Edition 1

Iraqi terror attacks feared

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 257 words


   IRAQ could be preparing terrorist attacks on British and American targets,
security experts warned yesterday - amid reports that counter-terror measures in
Britain were being stepped up.

MI5, MI6, Scotland Yard and the secret Government listening centre GCHQ were
said to be actively preparing for the threat of terrorist action - including the
possible use of biological or chemical weapons.

Responsibility for co-ordinating counter measures and drawing up contingency
plans lies with the Home Office terrorism prevention unit.

A Home Office spokes-man said: "We have a wide range of counter terrorist plans,
including measures to counter nuclear, biological or chemical attack. These
plans are regularly tested and updated."

Professor Paul Wilkinson of the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political
Violence at St Andrew's University said the authorities were right to take the
threat seriously.

He said Saddam's agents had a track record of attacking political opponents
abroad, including a failed assassination attempt on former US President George
Bush in Kuwait in 1993.

Pre-emptive action by Allied security forces before the 1991 Gulf War had been
crucial in preventing terror attacks during that conflict.

Although the Iraqis could in theory try to use biological or chemical agents -
such as the virus anthrax or VX nerve gas - Prof Wilkinson said this was
unlikely.

The main result of using weapons of mass destruction would probably be a huge
military retaliation by Britain and America.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              94 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               February 18, 1998

Moslem militants threaten terror attacks on Israel

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 320 words


ISLAMIC extremists yesterday threatened terror attacks on Israelis if the U.S.
and its allies take military action against Iraq.

A statement from the militant wing of the Hamas organisation added to the
tension as Israelis queued to buy gas masks and tape to seal rooms against
possible attack by chemical or biological weapons. Hamas said it would not sit
back and do nothing if Iraq was targeted. 'An attack on Israel would be our
response,' said the statement.

Worried about rising anger among Palestinians, some Israelis doubt the judgment
of their prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu.

Hamas has proved in the past its capability to carry out terror attacks on a
large scale. It has killed some 60 Israelis in suicide bomb attacks on buses and
shopping areas in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv over the past two years.

These attacks drove the Labour government from office and brought in Mr
Netanyahu, who has effectively frozen peace moves between Israelis and
Palestinians.

The statement from Hamas is likely to worsen relations between Mr Netanyahu and
the Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat. The Israeli leader blames Mr Arafat for
not keeping Hamas under control. It was expected that the Israelis would put
more pressure on Mr Arafat to silence pro-Iraqi support in the Palestinian
areas.

Mr Arafat has reportedly sent messages to Baghdad pressing Saddam to avoid any
attacks on the Israeli Palestinian area.

The Israeli army has been playing down the threat from Iraq and says there is
only a low probability of a missile attack. The intelligence services believe
Saddam has very few missiles and launchers and that he knows any use of chemical
or biological weapons against Israel would result in a devastating response.

Unlike in the Gulf War, when the allies persuaded Israel not to respond to Scud
missiles, Israel has made clear it would retaliate swiftly to any Iraqi attack.


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              95 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          February 19, 1998, Thursday

ATTACK TERROR OF DODI WOMAN

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 337 words


THE woman who alleged Dodi Fayed fathered her child was recovering in hospital
today following an incident in which she claimed she was beaten and slashed
across the head by a knifeman at a service station.

Diane Holliday claimed she was attacked on Tuesday evening when a man got into
her car after she stopped for petrol.

She told police she was forced to drive at knifepoint to an unlit area where she
was attacked.

Miss Holliday, 36, claimed the middle-aged man tied her hands behind her back
with electrical flex, beat her about the face and cut her head and hand with the
knife.

She said the man seized some personal papers that were in the car and ran
towards the petrol station.

Miss Holliday said her ordeal started when she pulled up at the Beacon Hill
service station, near Ipswich, Suffolk, at about 8pm on her way home from
visiting friends in Harwich, Essex.

She alleged two men pulled up behind her in a Volvo estate and the passenger
walked up to her car, got into the passenger seat, forced her to drive a short
distance and attacked her.

After the attack she got out of the car and flagged down a motorist who was
about to drive into the service station. The driver alerted the police.

Badly shaken

Miss Holliday, who lives near Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk, was taken to Ipswich
Hospital and given stitches for a head injury.

Her condition today was described as "comfortable."

Detective Inspector Tim Beach, of Suffolk police, said: "This was a very serious
assault and the victim was very badly shaken by her ordeal."

Miss Holliday hit the headlines when she claimed to be the mother of Dodi's 15
-month-old daughter, Marni.

She said the little girl, who has been adopted, was the product of a brief
affair with the Harrods heir who died with Diana, Princess of Wales, in a car
crash last August.

Last week she was arrested and interviewed by police about an allegation of
deception. Suffolk police are liaising with Scotland Yard over the latest
claims.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DIANE HOLLIDAY: Claimed she was bound and beaten

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              96 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          February 19, 1998, Thursday

TIED UP AND SLASHED;
 MYSTERY AS DODI BABY WOMAN TELLS OF TERROR ATTACK AT GARAGE;
 DIANE HOLLIDAY TELLS OF MYSTERY ATTACK AT SERVICE STATION

BYLINE: Jeremy Armstrong And James Mellor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 644 words


THE woman at the centre of the Dodi Fayed love-child claims has told of a
mystery attack on her at a service station.

Diane Holliday said she was slashed across the head and hand after being tied up
with flex by a knifeman.

The attacker, she alleged, then stole "important private documents" from her P
-reg Renault Megane, before dumping her 20 yards from a Little Chef restaurant.

Miss Holliday, 36, struggled to the roadside with blood pouring from a head
wound and summoned help from passers-by.

It was unclear last night whether the stolen documents were the DNA test results
she says will prove that Dodi was the father of her 16-month-old daughter Marni.

Miss Holliday, whose claims a fortnight ago brought headlines worldwide, has
consistently claimed she has proof that Dodi was the dad.

She told police that her knife ordeal on Tuesday night began after she pulled in
at a Fina garage at the remote Beacon Hill service station, near Ipswich,
Suffolk.

Miss Holliday said a white Volvo estate appeared behind her and the attacker
jumped into the passenger seat of her Megane before she even had a chance to get
out for petrol.

He told her to drive to an unlit grassy area near the adjoining Little Chef. The
Volvo did not follow.

He ordered her to get out and tied her hands tightly behind her back with flex,
she claimed.

Police said: "He hit her around the face and slashed her head and hand with a
knife. He stole the documents from the car and made off on foot." He was said to
be middle-aged and of medium build.

According to Miss Holliday's statement and the time of emergency calls, the
incident lasted minutes.

It is unlikely to have been captured on security video because of the position
of cameras at the garage and a nearby Travelodge.

No witnesses have come forward, although police stressed the inquiry was "at an
early stage".  They were due to speak to late-night staff at the hotel and
restaurant.

Miss Holliday was in a "comfortable" condition in hospital.

She told detectives she was picked up by two members of the public driving past.

They called for an ambulance and alerted police. Last night the East Anglia
ambulance service said they had been asked to attend the scene just after 8pm.

A spokesman said: "The victim was barely conscious.

"She was treated at the scene for a serious head injury and taken to hospital."

Police stressed they had been unable to formally interview Miss Holliday to get
exact details of the incident because of her condition.

Miss Holliday, who has a teenage son and daughter, said she had been visiting
friends in Harwich, Essex.

She was on her way home to Little Saxham, Suffolk, about 25 miles from the
garage.

Mystery deepened when sister-in-law Julie Holliday said she did not know of any
friends of Diane in Harwich.

She said: "I don't know why she was in Harwich - she certainly did not come to
see us and her parents were away.

"She is trying to lead a quieter life and hoping the fuss will die down.  I
can't believe she has deliberately done it to get publicity, because she has had
enough of that already."

It is understood that Miss Holliday's daughter Pamela, 17, alerted at least one
national newspaper to the attack before some close relatives had been informed.

Miss Holliday has claimed she met Dodi - killed with Princess Diana in the Paris
car crash - in 1995 and had his love-child the following year.

The girl is now with adoptive parents in America.

The claim has been denounced as "a wicked deception" by Dodi's father, Harrods
tycoon Mohamed Al Fayed.

Last night a former boyfriend of Miss Holliday said he was with her in Essex on
Tuesday afternoon.

The man, who refused to be named, added: "She seemed in great spirits and told
me she was going to pick up the DNA certificate."

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REMOTE: The service station in Suffolk where the knifeman pounced;;
BABY: Marni is now adopted;; DODI: Died with Diana in crash;; VICTIM: Diane
Holliday was slashed about the head and left bleeding

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              97 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      February 20, 1998, Friday Edition 1

Knife attack terror

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 92 words


   TWO attackers held a butcher's knife to a schoolboy's throat before robbing
him of an expensive Berghaus coat.

The pair, in their late teens, pretended to make friends with a group of younger
boys in Whitley Bay before demanding their clothes. The coat and his friend's
£40 Le Coq Sportif sweater were taken. The robbery happened in Charlton Court,
West Monkseaton.

One attacker was 6ft, blond and wearing a Newcastle United coat. His accomplice
was also 6ft with brown hair and distinguishing scars on the back of his left
hand.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              98 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      February 20, 1998, Friday Edition 2

Three arrests after terror car attack

BYLINE: By DAVE CLARK

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 152 words


   THREE men have been arrested after a 58-year-old man was knocked down and
repeatedly run over.

Police are still waiting to interview the victim, who is recovering in
Gateshead's Queen Elizabeth Hospital, and have arrested three men in their 20s.

The attackers ran down their victim in a Vauxhall Astra van at Kenilworth Court,
Washington, on Wednesday night, snatched his keys as he lay unconscious and
stole his Mercedes car.

The car was later found abandoned in the Concord area of Washington. Both
vehicles have been linked to a number of crimes in the Gateshead and Washington
areas in the course of the night.

A police spokesman said today: "The victim is expected to recover. We hope to
interview him later. Three man have been arrested and are helping us with our
inquiries."

Witnesses, or anyone with any information, are asked to call police on [0191]
454 7555 ext 66408.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              99 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 21, 1998

Ex-SAS man spared jail after mock terror attack in church

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DONEGAN

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 262 words


A FORMER SAS soldier was ordered to do 240 hours' community service yesterday
for carrying out a mock execution during a Sunday service as a favour for a
Church of Scotland minister.

Matthew Smith, aged 42, was convicted at Hamilton sheriff court for his part in
the incident at the South Lanarkshire town's Park Parish Church in February last
year. The Rev Earlsley White was "abducted" from his pulpit, taken outside and
"shot".

Sheriff William Gibson was told that around 300 scouts, cubs and their leaders
were among the congregation, celebrating Annual Founders Day, when Mr Smith ran
up the aisle in full battledress with his face blacked. Brandishing a gun, he
"kidnapped" White.

The stunt had been arranged to illustrate the sermon, but it backfired when the
congregation believed Smith to be a real terrorist, the court heard.

White, who retires from the ministry today, was fined pounds 500 for his part in
the stunt. The two were found guilty of terrifying the congregation.

Smith, who runs a children's entertainment centre, was admonished on a further
charge of possessing a loaded handgun in a public place.

Sheriff Gibson called the men's actions idiotic. He said Smith, who had eight
previous convictions, was fortunate to escape a jail term, but since he wanted
to deal with the two equably he was passing non-custodial sentences.

Ian Sharp, session clerk at the church, said the minister retained the support
of his congregation. "He is a good and godly man. We all love him dearly and
wish him well in his retirement."


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              100 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          February 26, 1998, Thursday

ANTI-TERROR GROUP SLAMS GUN ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 116 words


GLYN Roberts, development officer of anti-terror group Fait, has slammed Tuesday
night's shooting of a 19-year-old man in both legs in the Short Strand area of
Belfast.

He said Fait believed the attack was the work of the IRA, describing the terror
group as "utter barbarians".

"How on earth can Sinn Fein still maintain that the IRA is maintaining its
cease-fire?" he said. "The IRA's actions plainly speak for themselves.

"Fait is now calling upon Tony Blair not to meet with Sinn Fein while these
disgusting attacks continue to take place. This latest incident must be looked
at by the two governments as it represents yet another serious breach of the
Mitchell Principles."

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              101 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 March 3, 1998

Car bomb attack foiled;
 'Terror grouping aimed to detonate device in Armagh'

BYLINE: By Chris Thornton Security Correspondent

LENGTH: 567 words


THE Continuity IRA was blamed today for plotting a massive car bomb attack which
was foiled in a border area of the Republic by the Garda.

A 600lb device found primed in a Co Louth hayshed was destined for Armagh,
senior gardai said.

They said the bomb had the potential to cause "considerable loss of life and
destruction of property".

"The consequences of this having been used anywhere would have been
devastating," Chief Superintendent Al McHugh said.

Explosives experts from Monaghan barracks were called to the Hackballscross area
last night and a preliminary examination confirmed that the bomb was complete
and ready to be moved.

Further examination was delayed until this morning when a number of controlled
explosions were carried out to make it safe.

The bomb, which was found during a planned search, consisted of home-made
explosives packed into the boot of a Renault 21 car with Northern Ireland
registration plates which was hidden under bales of hay.

Secretary of State Mo Mowlam praised the Garda operation, saying: "I want to put
on record our thanks to the gardai. It makes a difference to the process".

The CIRA was responsible for two similar car bombs which exploded in Moira and
Portadown causing massive damage to property in the past 11 days.

The CIRA unit behind the bomb attacks is based in the south Armagh-north Louth
area and is reported to have access to Provisional IRA bomb-making equipment.

The discovery came as the DUP claimed a plot to bomb RUC headquarters had been
foiled.

DUP justice spokesman Ian Paisley Jr said bombers had copied a senior
policeman's car and planned to use it, along with stolen uniforms and warrant
cards, for the top-level attack.

But police sources poured doubt on the claims without denying the specific
allegations.

Mr Paisley said security sources told him the IRA was behind an attempt to
infiltrate RUC security with bombers posing as policemen.

He said the RUC had recovered a stolen car in the Ormeau area of Belfast last
week that had been rigged as an exact copy of a senior policeman's vehicle.

The car bore the same registration number and identical wheels, he said.

He claimed the car was discovered by chance and, given the markings and ID
number plates, the RUC believes the IRA was going to bomb the east Belfast
headquarters at Knock.

Mr Paisley claimed the RUC has not revealed the details because they do not want
to upset the political process.

He said: "I'm glad the police were able through vigilance to foil what would
have been a terrible blow to security headquarters.

"But it demonstrates quite clearly the republican movement are interested in
causing destruction and they will be getting into talks with impunity even
though these actions are ongoing.

"One would have thought, given a successful operation by police, they would have
made it public."

The RUC said a Renault 19 car was stolen from Corporation Street car park on
February 24.

It was recovered on the Ormeau Road the next day after an anonymous phone call
to the owner.

"The registered keeper is not a member of the police service. No items of police
equipment were in the vehicle, either when it was stolen or recovered," an RUC
spokesman said.

Meanwhile, a security alert which closed the Crumlin Road near Ardoyne in north
Belfast today was declared a hoax.


LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              102 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             March 3, 1998, Tuesday

POUNDS 540 BILL FOR TERROR;
Tour company boss James Kilpatrick branded a "terrorist" after a road rage
attack has been ordered to pay pounds 540 for car repairs

SECTION: Page 19

LENGTH: 85 words


A tour company boss branded a "terrorist" after a road rage attack has been
ordered to pay pounds 540 for car repairs.

James Kilpatrick, 41, of Glenrothes, Fife, was jailed for eight months in
November.

He was convicted of assault and wilful damage to a car driven by disabled Robert
Watson, 51.

A court heard he and his daughter Hazel, 16, were left "gibbering wrecks"
because of Kil- patrick's actions.

Yesterday they won a small claims action at Kirk-caldy Sheriff Court over the
damage he caused.


LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1998 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              103 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 March 3, 1998

Rifkind's son tells of terror attack in railway tunnel

BYLINE: Stan Arnaud

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 308 words


FORMER Foreign Secretary Sir Malcolm Rifkind's son told yesterday of how he was
attacked by two muggers.

Hugo Rifkind, 20, said he was punched and headbutted by two men in a disused
railway tunnel as he walked to his Edinburgh flat.

A companion, John Barrington, was also attacked as he tried to stop the assault.

Darren Beaumont, 17, denies assaulting and robbing Mr Barrington and assaulting
Mr Rifkind while on bail and acting with others last March 25.

Mr Rifkind, a student, told Edinburgh Sheriff Court he had been talking to
friends in a pub about 'amusing' grafitti in a railway tunnel in the city's
Holyrood Park.

He took the group to see the graffiti. Afterwards, the others went off in
another direction while he and Mr Barrington walked on thorough the tunnel
towards his flat in Duddingston.

Mr Rifkind said he saw women and two women coming towards him. He said he was
punched by one of the men who demanded money and that the other man then
head-butted him.

He told the court: 'I fell over and lost my glasses.

When I got up, one of the men repeatedly asked me for money.' Mr Rifkind said he
was hit several more times before he and

Mr Barrington escapes.

He added: 'We started to run. A girl chased us and I could hear the rest of them
shouting "stab him."' He suffered a cut lip in the attack and has been left with
a small scar.

Mr Barrington, a 20-year-old photographer who suffered a loosened tooth, told
the court: 'I took out my wallet to calm the situation. But I was hit in the
face.' The court heard that Beaumont told police he had punched one of the
alleged victims, but denied headbutting anyone or playing any part in robbery.

He claimed he had been punched himself.

The trial before Sheriff Isobel Poole continues and Beaumont' s co-accused is to
be tried later.


LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              104 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 3, 1998, Tuesday

COLLEGE GANG ATTACK TERROR;
 STUDENTS AT WATERFORD INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY LIVE IN FEAR OF VIOLENCE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 121 words


STUDENTS are living in fear of violence, it was revealed last night.

The warning came after a girl of 13 was savagely kicked and punched unconscious
at Waterford Institute of Technology campus on Saturday.

Gardai believe a vicious girl gang is to blame. Last night Students' Union
President John McGrath said: "We have never known it to be so bad.

"The college used to be one of the safest places to be, but all that has
changed. There have been more attacks on campus and on students off campus than
ever before."

It is believed the latest victim, who had been at a basketball game, was
targeted by girls her own age as she waited for a lift home.

She was treated in hospital and later released.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              105 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 4, 1998, Wednesday

PUB PALS EXECUTED BY MASKED GUNMEN;
 PROTESTANT AND CATHOLIC KILLED IN TERRORIST ATTACK;
 PROTESTANT & CATHOLIC KILLED IN TERRORIST PUB ATTACK

BYLINE: Joe Gorrod And Justin Dunn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 515 words


TWO friends, a Catholic and a Protestant, were shot dead with machine guns while
drinking in an Ulster bar last night.

They were executed after being ordered to lie on the floor.

One of the two masked killers screamed: "Get down you bastards."

They then murdered Catholic Damien Trainor and Protestant Phillip Allen before
fleeing.

The victims, both in their 30s, were rushed to hospital but died from their
injuries.

Two other drinkers at the Railway Bar in Poyntzpass, near Newry, Co Down, were
slightly hurt in the attack.

More than a dozen people were watching soccer on TV when the killers struck.

Bar owner Dessie Canavan, brother of a nationalist SDLP councillor, said: "They
were all local chaps of all ages and a mixed crowd of Catholics and Protestants
who were sports fans.

"They all dived for cover but some of them had no chance at all.

"There were pools of blood all over the place and there seemed nothing we could
do to stop the bleeding.

"Two of the lads were hit in the chest. They were working lads who never did
anybody any harm.

"It's incredible to think an innocent night out can end in horror like this."

A woman in the bar said: "The two men who were shot were very close friends.
Everybody is devastated."

Another drinker said: "The gunmen just burst through the door and opened fire
before we knew what was happening.

"Glass and splinters flew everywhere and the ones who were shot seemed to be
nearest the door. We heard a car drive off then everything went quiet."

Phillip Allen's cousin Neville Stevenson ran to the pub after the attack.

He said: "I don't know why this has happened. I just can't think straight.

"I don't know why anyone would want to do this. It's a disgrace."

Newry and Armagh MP Seamus Mallon, a close friend of the bar owner, said: "This
is an attack on the entire peace process."

Mr Mallon, who lives nearby, was on the scene in minutes.

He said: "It was pande-monium. People were running out shocked and traumatised.

"The people who did this are callous and evil. This was a bar where Catholics
and Protestants drank together.

"It is difficult to come to any conclusion other than that this was a Loyalist
attack."

Ulster Unionist councillor Robert Turner said: "This village has come through
years of violence unscathed. Relations are second to none here.

"This is the last place anyone would think this could happen."

Paramedics fought a vain battle to save the victims, who had grown up together.

One medic said: "They both died within less than a minute of each other and we
just had to watch them go.

"They were both from the area and some of the nurses knew them."

No organisation has admitted responsibility for the murders. But police hunting
a red getaway car said a Loyalist gang may have been responsible.

Loyalist paramilitaries are also being blamed for a terrifying attack on the
Catholic owner of a roadside chip van yesterday.

Incredibly, the man escaped unhurt when the terrorist's gun jammed near
Toombridge, Co Antrim.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GUARD: Soldiers outside the Railway Bar in Poyntzpass after last
night's murders

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              106 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 March 6, 1998

Boys' gunpoint sex attack terror

SECTION: Crime: Sex Offence, Pg.Weather

LENGTH: 238 words


BRITISH Transport Police were speaking to rail passengers today after three boys
were indecently assaulted by a gun-toting man they met at a railway station.

One of the victims, an 11-year-old boy, suffered a serious sex attack while his
two younger friends were indecently assaulted, British Transport Police said.

It is the fourth serious sex assault on train-users in Sussex in the space of
four weeks.

But police say there is no immediate evidence to link the attacks.

The 11-year-old and his friends - who are brothers aged six and eight -
encountered their attacker at Lewes station, in East Sussex, after travelling
from their homes in Moulsecoomb, near Brighton.

The man took them on the next train to nearby Glynde, where the assaults took
place in public lavatories and on a road-bridge over the station's platforms.

They were molested again in a first-class compartment as the man took them back
to Moulsecoomb by train.

The children told police that the attacker threatened them with a gun during his
assaults.

The attacker, described as white with a spotty face and short hair, was wearing
a black jacket, green jumper, blue trousers, white shoes and possibly an
earring.

Detective Inspector Ron Wainer, leading this most recent investigation, said:
"This is a horrific and shocking attack.

"This man must be caught quickly and any information that the public can provide
would be invaluable."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 1998 The Sentinel

                              107 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       March 10, 1998, Tuesday Edition 6

Postmaster tells of terror gang attack

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 272 words


   A BRAVE postmaster told today how he and his assistant fought off armed
robbers during a terrifying shotgun raid.

Hector Grabham and assistant Margaret Leslie were in Fewster Square post office,
Leam Lane, Gateshead when masked robbers burst in and hurled a concrete block
through the security screen.

One raider jumped on the counter and threatened the pair with a sawn-off
shotgun. Undaunted, the besieged couple began attacking the stunned raider. Mr
Grabham hit him with a metal bar and his assistant laid into him with a pick-axe
handle.

"When his accomplice saw what was happening, he fired his gun into the ceiling
to frighten us," said Mr Grabham, 62.

"It didn't frighten us and we continued to hit him. We didn't think about it, it
just happened and it was over so quickly." The gang fled after snatching £2,000
from the till, leaving the post office in pandemonium.

"It was a Thursday, pensions day and our busiest day. It was packed with
pensioners," said Mr Grabham.

"When the robbers came in people ran out. There was total panic, several fell
over and one woman broke her collar bone when a man fell on top of her."

Christopher Morrisey, 20 of Suffolk Place, Saltmeadows, Justin Brown, 19, of
Brighton Road, Bensham were convicted of robbery. Mark McDonald, 17, of
Cleveland Mews, Dunston, admitted the charge.

The three men were sentenced to 31 years in jail between them. Morrisey was also
convicted of a pistol raid at Kibblesworth post office. A fourth man, Jason
Richardson, 22, of Greenwood Gardens, Felling, was jailed for seven years for
another robbery on a security guard.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              108 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                 March 10, 1998

Terror attack on RUC station

SECTION: Politics: Northern Ireland, Pg.7

LENGTH: 298 words


TERRORISTS launched a mortar bomb attack on a police station in Northern Ireland
early today.

Police said it was a miracle that large numbers of people were not killed or
injured in the attack, which the terrorists launched on Armagh Royal Ulster
Constabulary station without warning.

Two or possibly three missiles, were fired from a launch pad in Friary Road at
around 12.40am today, police said.

Hundreds of people were evacuated from their homes after a soldier spotted the
launch framework and raised the alarm just 30 minutes earlier.

It is thought at least one device may have failed to explode and Army experts
were this morning carrying out a minute search of the area.

"We heard three bangs and the next thing the police came round and told us to
get out quick," said one woman.

The bombing was blamed on a republican faction.

RUC Assistant Chief Constable Tom Craig said it was a "sinister twist" in a
ruthless campaign.

The attack, which follows recent car bombings, was an extremely worrying
development, he said.

If the bombing were blamed on the Continuity IRA it would be the first time the
republican splinter group had mounted such an attack. Mortar bombs were the
hallmark of the Provisional IRA in the 80s and 90s.

"That and the no-warning nature marks a particularly sinister twist. I can only
conclude that those responsible are hell-bent on plunging this community into
bloodshed and mayhem," said Mr Craig.

"These people are prepared to play fast and loose with the lives of Catholics,
Protestants, police officers - anyone and everyone who stands in their way."

About 100 people, many of them elderly, were evacuated from homes nearby. They
had to spend the night in emergency accommodation at the Armagh Royal School and
a local barracks.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              109 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                 March 10, 1998

Terror bomb attack on Ulster RUC base

BYLINE: By Pa News Staff

SECTION: Pg.7

LENGTH: 457 words


TERRORISTS launched a mortar bomb attack on a police station in Northern Ireland
early today.

Police said it was a miracle that large numbers of people were not killed or
injured in the attack, which the terrorists launched on Armagh Royal Ulster
Constabulary station without warning.

Two or possibly three missiles, were fired from a launch pad in Friary Road at
around 12.40am today, police said.Hundreds of people were evacuated from their
homes after a soldier spotted the launch framework and raised the alarm just 30
minutes earlier.

Sinister

It is thought at least one device may have failed to explode and Army experts
were this morning carrying out a minute search of the area.

"We heard three bangs and the next thing the police came round and told us to
get out quick," said one woman.

The bombing was blamed on a republican faction.

RUC Assistant Chief Constable Tom Craig said it was a "sinister twist" in a
ruthless campaign.

The attack, which follows recent car bombings, was an extremely worrying
development, he said.

If the bombing were blamed on the Continuity IRA it would be the first time the
republican splinter group had mounted such an attack. Mortar bombs were the
hallmark of the Provisional IRA in the 80s and 90s.

"That and the no-warning nature marks a particularly sinister twist. I can only
conclude that those responsible are hell-bent on plunging this community into
bloodshed and mayhem," said Mr Craig.

About 100 people, many of them elderly, were evacuated from homes nearby. They
had to spend the night in emergency accommodation at the Armagh Royal School and
a local barracks.

An RUC spokesman said there were no reports of any injuries, adding that the
extent of the damage caused by the blasts had not yet been fully assessed.

Sinn Fein chief negotiator Martin McGuinness said his party was concerned about
the latest attack.

"I don't know who was responsible. In all these matters it's a mistake to
speculate. We should keep an open mind," he told the BBC Radio 4 Today
programme.

He was also concerned at reports that all the major elements of the loyalist
paramilitary groupings had been exploding bombs in recent weeks, he said.

Faction

Ulster Unionist MP Jeffrey Donaldson called on the RUC Chief Constable to give
his assessment of whether the IRA was involved in the latest attack.

"The only organisation in the past which has had the capability to carry out
this sort of attack was the Provisional IRA, and there will be many people this
morning, once again, wondering to what extent the Provisional IRA are involved
in these on-going attacks," he said.

"We now look to the Chief Constable to give his views on whether or not the IRA
were involved in the attack."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1998 Leicester Mercury

                              110 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                 March 13, 1998

Ex-lover bully jailed for terror attack
 JURY TOLD OF ACT OF REVENGE

SECTION: Crime: assault, Pg.5

LENGTH: 470 words


GRIMSBY girlfriend batterer Andrew Thomas has been jailed for two-and-a-half
years.

A Grimsby Crown Court jury took two-and-a-half hours to find 22-year-old Thomas,
of Heneage Road, guilty of inflicting grievous bodily harm and common assault.

Thomas had originally pleaded not guilty to both offences, but under
cross-examination by prosecutor Stuart Lody, he admitted the common assault had
been an act of revenge and not self-defence.

Sentencing him to prison after the one-and-a-half day trial, Judge Richard
Inglis said: "You have been convicted of very unpleasant acts of violence on a
woman in respect of whom you have previously served a sentence for assault.

"I am quite satisfied you are a bully and an extremely violent man where women
are concerned."

Judge Inglis told Thomas his attack was a terrifying incident aggravated by the
fact that he would not call for an ambulance hours after the assault.

Earlier, the jury heard that an angry Thomas had gone around to the home of
ex-girlfriend Elizabeth Jessop.

When they were together, the couple had had a stormy and problematic
relationship.

An attempted reconciliation before the assault had failed, but Miss Jessop was
allowing Thomas to use her home in Tennyson Road, Cleethorpes, as a base for
property and post.

The defendant had argued with Miss Jessop before striking her with a wooden
spade handle.

The assault escalated, with Thomas "whacking" Miss Jessop on the head as hard as
he could three or four times, cutting her head open.

He hit her on the arm three times with a hammer, breaking her wrist and bruising
her bones.

When Miss Jessop's 16-year-old brother came to her aid, Thomas turned on him,
flooring him and repeatedly kicking him about the head.

The court heard Miss Jessop slashed Thomas's arm with a kitchen knife to stop
him assaulting her brother.

The defendant then kept his victims imprisoned for three hours before calling
for an ambulance.

Thomas, defended by John Thackaray, denied the allegations, claiming Miss Jessop
had lured him to her house to attack him.

He told the court she had been jealous after hearing rumours that he was having
a sexual relationship with a 15-year-old girl, something he denied.

Thomas said he had tried to leave the house, but Miss Jessop had locked him in.

He claimed he struck her once on the head and then once on the arm with a hammer
in an attempt to disarm her after she slashed him with a knife.

The defendant was unable to explain how Miss Jessop sustained three bruises and
a fractured wrist on her left arm and bruising to her right arm with one strike
of a hammer.

Thomas denied Miss Jessop's account, saying: "Them two tried to have a go at me.

"I was defending myself that night. She called me round at 10 o'clock to do me
over with her brother."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              111 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                             March 15, 1998, Sunday

DRUNK GAZZA ATTACKS GIRL 14;
Police probe phone box terror ordeal;
Paul Gascoigne attacks Jacqueline Kennedy in city centre phonebox

BYLINE: Charles Lavery Exclusive

SECTION: Page 1

LENGTH: 651 words


Boozy Gazza dragged a terrified teenager by her HAIR in a sickening attack, it
was claimed last night.

Fourteen-year-old Jacqueline Kennedy said the burly millionaire footballer left
her shocked, bruised and in tears after the attack.

And she said he LAUGHED when he saw her crying.

Detectives were yesterday probing the bizarre city centre incident.

The third-year pupil claims she was standing in a phone box making a call to her
boyfriend when Gazza leaned in, grabbed her by the hair and yanked her out.

Jacqueline told police she broke down in tears as Gazza's pal hauled the star
off her and bundled him into a mini-bus.

Nursing a bruised head, she said yesterday: "I was terrified."

The Ibrox favourite had been out on the town with mates before the alleged
incident.

The group had just left the Kentucky Fried Chicken restaurant in Glasgow's Union
Street when the alleged incident happened.

Jacqueline fled home in tears to her family's house in Glasgow where her mum,
Margaret, called in the police.

Jacqueline said: "I was waiting for a bus home on Thursday and I decided to call
my boyfriend.

"While I was speaking to him Gazza and another man walked past the window and
Gazza punched the glass.

"I put the phone down and opened the door. The next thing I knew he had me by
the hair and was yanking me backwards out of the phone-box.

"The man he was with pulled him off me. I didn't know what he was going to do
next.

"I just started crying. He looked drunk and he laughed and staggered across the
road into a van.

"He is a grown man. I was so scared and I didn't know what he was going to do to
me.

"He could have done anything to me. He didn't care who was watching.  I called
my mum and she was raging.

"When I got home she called the police and they took a statement from me.

"I can't believe he could have done something like this.

"I always thought he was a good laugh, but not any more. He should be ashamed of
himself. I got a bruise at the back of my head because he pulled my hair so
hard."

Mrs Kennedy added: "If I had got hold of him on Thursday night he would not be
playing football any more.

"He should know better than to do something like this."

Jacqueline's boyfriend, Christopher Branney, said: "I was speaking to her on the
phone then I heard a bang.

"She told me that someone had just punched the window of the phone box."

A spokesman for the Kentucky Fried Chicken Restaurant chain said: "Mr Gascoigne
was in the restaurant on Thursday night and ordered some food. Staff say he was
in good form."

A Strathclyde Police spokeswoman said: "We have received a complaint from a 14-
year-old girl regarding an alleged assault in Union Street, Glasgow. Inquiries
are at an early stage."

Gazza has never been far from controversy. He outraged Celtic fans at the New
Year Old Firm game by mimicking playing a flute. The pounds 25,000-a- week
player was heavily fined - then it emerged that he had been on a booze binge
with mates just 36 hours before the game.

He split from wife Sheryl last year amid claims that he beat her up at posh
Gleneagles Hotel with the kids in the next room.

Last year, Gascoigne went on a drinking session with DJ Chris Evans. They
planned a joke on Ally McCoist by strapping him into an old banger and pushing
it into Loch Lomond. Luckily, Ally was late for the meeting.

Gascoigne was also accused of slapping a girl in London during one of his
drinking sessions.

More recently, Gascoigne hit the headlines when a 52-year-old woman claimed they
had enjoyed a passionate fling.

It was claimed he had singled her out because she looked like Sheryl.

The alleged attack on Jacqueline Kennedy comes at a time when the player's
future is in the balance.

Both Crystal Palace and Middlesbrough have expressed an interest, but Rangers
chairman David Murray says he is NOT on the transfer list.


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1998 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              112 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 March 17, 1998

Drug-binge teenager's terror attack on OAP
 Victim, 75, now can't bear to live alone

SECTION: Crime: Rape, Pg.3

LENGTH: 240 words


A NORTH teenager attempted to rape a 75-year-old Alness woman after a
drink-and-drugs binge, the High Court in Aberdeen heard yesterday.

Alness fish processor Hamish Howls, 19, described as a prisoner in Inverness,
admitted assaulting the woman after forcing his way into her home on November 29
last year.

Advocate depute Simon Di Rollo told the court Howls had earlier been acting
bizarrely in a local pub, wailing, screaming and howling and slapping his hands
off toilet walls.

Howls, who was a stranger to the woman, arrived at her home at night, grabbed
hold of her and pushed her into her living room where he assaulted her.

During her ordeal the woman was slapped on the face as she shouted for help.

He struck her again after she tried to hit him with a fruit bowl. Howls
eventually stopped, told her "I'm going", then left the house.

He later told police: "I stopped before I went too far."

The court heard his victim is now unable to live alone.

Defence advocate Iain Duguid said his client wished to apologise for the
incident.

"The public perception of an offence of this type is one of abhorrence," adding
that Howls had brought shame on himself and his immediate family.

He added that Howls had a history of substantial drug and alcohol abuse and had
attempted suicide shortly before the incident.

Lord Eassie deferred sentence on Howls until Friday to obtain background reports
and remanded him in custody.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 1998 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              113 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                 March 17, 1998

FAMILY ATTACKED
BY TERROR GANG

BYLINE: By Adam Wakelin, Nw Staff

SECTION: Crime: Assault, Pg.1

LENGTH: 300 words


A MASKED gang terrified a family with death threats and hurled a fire
extinguisher at a neighbour who rushed to their aid.

Frightened Carlton man Mr Nick Smart called for help to protect his heavily
pregnant wife and two-year-old daughter when his home came under attack from
thieves trying to steal the family car.

Mr Smart was on his way to bed when he spotted five members of the six-strong
gang, who arrived in a silver Nissan car, trying to break into his GBP 25,000
BMW.

He immediately rang the police and then shouted a warning to the gang from his
bedroom window that they were on their way.

Hurled bricks

After failing to get the car started the gang hurled bricks and its fire
extinguisher through windows of the house, threatening to shoot the family if
the keys were not handed over.

"It was the worst thing I have ever been through in my life," said Mr Smart. "We
did not see them but the gang said they had guns and would shoot us if they
didn't get the keys."

Before throwing the extinguisher through the window a gang member hurled it at a
neighbour who tried to intervene, making threats to kill him. The neighbour
escaped uninjured back to his house.

Mr Smart threw his keys out of the bedroom window and the gang escaped in the
two cars minutes before police arrived.

Traumatised by the attack which took place on Thursday night, Mr Smart initially
told the police he wanted no publicity and did not feel able to talk about it
until yesterday.

"I was absolutely terrified. My wife is due to go into labour this week and we
were all hysterical," he said.

The BMW car was found by Warwickshire police on Saturday stripped and burnt-out
in the Water Orton area near Birmingham.

Hinckley CID have mounted a hunt for the gang believed to come from the West
Midlands.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1998 Leicester Mercury

                              114 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                 March 17, 1998

Family attacked by masked terror gang

BYLINE: By Adam Wakelin

SECTION: Crime, Pg.9

LENGTH: 299 words


A MASKED gang terrified a family with death threats and hurled a fire
extinguisher at a neighbour who rushed to their aid.

Frightened Carlton man Mr Nick Smart called for help to protect his heavily
pregnant wife and two-year-old daughter when his home came under attack from
thieves trying to steal the family car.

Mr Smart was on his way to bed when he spotted five members of the six-strong
gang, who arrived in a silver Nissan car, trying to break into his GBP 25,000
BMW.

He immediately rang the police and then shouted a warning to the gang from his
bedroom window that they were on their way.

After failing to get the car started the gang hurled bricks and its fire
extinguisher through windows of the house, threatening to shoot the family if
the keys were not handed over.

Guns

"It was the worst thing I have ever been through in my life," said Mr Smart. "We
did not see them but the gang said they had guns and would shoot us if they
didn't get the keys."

Before throwing the extinguisher through the window a gang member hurled it at a
neighbour who tried to intervene, making threats to kill him. The neighbour
escaped uninjured back to his house.

Mr Smart threw his keys out of the bedroom window and the gang escaped in the
two cars minutes before police arrived.

Traumatised by the attack which took place on Thursday night, Mr Smart initially
told the police he wanted no publicity and did not feel able to talk about it
until yesterday.

"I was absolutely terrified. My wife is due to go into labour this week and we
were all hysterical," he said.

The BMW car was found by Warwickshire police on Saturday stripped and burnt-out
in the Water Orton area near Birmingham.

Hinckley CID have mounted a hunt for the gang believed to come from the West
Midlands.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1998 Leicester Mercury

                              115 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 March 19, 1998

Couple's terror at gun attack

BYLINE: By Nathaniel Bane

LENGTH: 209 words


A YOUNG couple today told of their terror after a shotgun was fired at the front
window of their new north Belfast home.

Shocked Andrew Lapping and fiancee Kerry Plummer were last night watching
television when the shot slammed into the top part of their window frame and
wall just feet away.

The double-glazing saved the couple from serious injury, with the first pane
taking the impact.

They had moved into the two-storey terraced house in Twaddell Avenue just three
weeks ago and are still renovating.

They were adamant the attack was a case of mistaken identity.

Mr Lapping (23), a printer, said: "It was something we never thought would
happen. If the shot was any lower, God knows what could have happened."

Ms Plummer (24), a trainee manager, said: "I was in shock last night. It could
have got either of us."

Mr Lapping said: "At first we thought it was kids throwing bangers or things at
the window.

"The neighbours were all out to see what had happened, and a woman a couple of
doors down said she saw a car speeding away.

"We were really shocked when the police told us it was a shotgun."

An RUC spokesman confirmed the attackers used a shotgun and urged anyone with
information to contact police.


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              116 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                 March 23, 1998

Disabled driver's road rage terror
 Sickening attack at busy junction

BYLINE: By Jenny Clarke

SECTION: Crime: Assault, Pg.12

LENGTH: 345 words


A DEFENCELESS disabled driver claimed today he was the victim of a sickening
road rage attack - even after telling his assailant he was ill.

Paul Lewis, 46, was yanked to the ground and punched and kicked several times in
the face after an argument erupted with another driver in Aberdeen.

Mr Lewis, who has a painful back condition which has affected his co-ordination,
was helpless to fend off the man, who struck at a busy traffic lights last week.

The former garage boss was driving a friend's Porsche when the incident happened
on Argyll Place near the junction with Westburn Road.

Mr Lewis, of Westhill, had walked a friend's dog at Victoria Park on Wednesday
night around 7pm.

He was driving away when a motorist in a gold H-registered car flashed his
lights and sounded the horn.

Mr Lewis said: "I don't know if he thought I had pulled out in front of him but
he kept on flashing and tooting.

"He drove so close I think he touched the back of my car with his car so I got
out at the traffic lights to see what was wrong.

"He immediately jumped out of his car. I told him I didn't want any trouble
because I was disabled but he yanked my hair and tripped me up.

"I hit the ground with a force and he held me down and kicked me at the same
time. I tried to defend myself by grabbing his coat but he just laid into my
face."

The attacker calmly walked back to his car after the lights changed and the
victim was so stunned he drove off without noting the full registration.

Mr Lewis was a keen bodybuilder until developing a back condition 18 months ago
which has left him in permanent pain.

He goes for regularly physiotherapy but doctors think he may need an operation.

Mr Lewis has been left nursing a black eye, bruising to his body and lumps on
his face and head.

He thinks his attacker was in his early to mid 20s, about 5ft 10in, of stocky
build with short-ish hair and was wearing a white jacket.

Police confirmed they are investigating the incident and urged anyone with
information to contact the Bucksburn office on (01224) 712811.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              117 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            March 26, 1998, Thursday

RUC Chief Constable ruled out IRA involvement in the recent wave of terrorist
attacks

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 44 words


* Ronnie Flanagan, the RUC Chief Constable, yesterday ruled out IRA involvement
in the recent wave of terrorist attacks, but suggested a new terrorist group was
coalescing around dissidents who had quit the organisation over Sinn Fein's
peace strategy.


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              118 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 March 30, 1998

Security fiasco over Blair home;
 'Terror attack' files on view

BYLINE: Sian Clare

SECTION: Pg.16

LENGTH: 398 words


HOME Secretary Jack Straw yesterday ordered an immediate inquiry into an
apparent blunder which made sensitive files about Tony Blair's home available to
the public.

Plans to protect the Blairs' Victorian home in Trimdon village, county Durham,
have reportedly been available in the local public records office.

The Sunday Times said yesterday it had managed to see a planning application
detailing proposed security arrangements at the Blair family home, made within
days of Labour's general election victory last May.

For 11.75, a reporter was able to view this security ''blueprint'' at the
records office and was even allowed to draw sketches.

The application revealed a secret route so the Blairs could escape a terrorist
attack and the location of almost a dozen infra-red cameras and motion sensors
to detect intruders in the garden.

The papers also reportedly revealed the type of Chubb locks on all points of
entry to the security buffer zone around the house, the layout of two sets of
perimeter fences and of mirrors to give the police a view of blind spots on
adjacent roads.

The Blairs' home is under 24-hour protection and the four-bedroom house next
door has reportedly been bought and turned into an operations centre for 28
police marksmen who work in shifts.

Consider

Yesterday a Home Office spokesman said Mr Straw was ''very concerned'' that this
information was in the public domain.

''He has ordered an immediate inquiry and has asked for the material to be
withdrawn,'' the spokesman said.

This weekend the Prime Minister was at Chequers. He has been spending less time
at his constituency home since becoming Premier.

But terrorism expert John Stalker, former deputy chief constable of Greater
Manchester police, said detailed security arrangements on the Blair family home
would be ''absolutely priceless'' to a terrorist cell.

Leader of Sedgefield district council Brian Stephens said yesterday it was up to
the Home Office to consider whether the Blairs' safety had been compromised.

''Our people brought the application to the attention of the Home Office but
were told that they didn't think it was sensitive,'' he said.

''The Home Office had to ask for the application details to be withdrawn, but
this wasn't done. I imagine they will do now."

He said Mr Blair's home in Trimdon is "like Fort Knox".

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              119 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       April 2, 1998, Thursday Edition 1

Girl's short cut to attack terror - Police hope details of 14-year-old's route
will jog memories

BYLINE: By PETER TAYLOR

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 275 words


   POLICE today released details of the shortcut taken by a teenage girl
attacked by three sex beasts as she headed home from school.

The 14-year-old was followed by the trio and subjected to a serious sexual
attack after walking down a footpath in a quiet North East neighbourhood.

Shaken

Police said she was left "very badly shaken" after she was subjected to the
attack in Bedlington.

They released details of the girl's route home today in a bid to jog the
memories of residents in the market town who may have seen something. After
leaving school, the girl followed the arrowed route on the street plan after
crossing Stead Lane.

As she walked across a grassed area between Glassey Terrace and Tomlea Avenue,
she became aware of three men, all aged around 18.

They followed her across The Oval and football fields and along a footpath
between Terrier Close and Steadlands Square. Here, the terrified girl was
confronted by the three men and assaulted in a cut.

The attack happened at about 4pm on Thursday, March 19, but police only released
details of it this week.

The young man who played the leading part in the assault was described as short,
of thin build, with dark brown hair, close cropped at the back and longer, in a
'curtains' style at the front.

Escaped

He had dark brown eyes and wore a black coat, dark blue jeans and white
trainers. The two other men both wore light blue jeans and white trainers.

THREE girls escaped from a gang of men who tried to drag them into a car in
Garden Place, Penshaw, Wearside, on Tuesday night. Police want to trace four
men, believed to have been in a red Ford.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              120 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 2, 1998, Thursday

CLOWN TERROR OF ACID VICTIM;
 ACID ATTACK VICTIM SHOT BY AN ASSASSIN WEARING CLOWN MASK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 58 words


AN acid attack victim was shot as he recovered in hospital by a would-be
assassin in a clown's mask, the Old Bailey was told.

Car dealer Darren Kerr, 28, of Southend, Essex, blinded in one eye by the acid,
was lucky to survive.

Russell Jones, 29, was yesterday jailed for 16 years for the acid attack. They
fell out over money.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              121 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 April 2, 1998

Israel faces wave of terror attacks

SECTION: Pg.31

LENGTH: 355 words


Israel is braced for a wave of suicide bomb attacks after being accused of
masterminding the assassination of a Palestinian terror group's chief bombmaker.

Security forces have been placed in high alert and moved to potential targets in
the wake of Hamas leader Mohiyedine Sharif's death.

The Hamas military wing, Izzedine al-Qassam, warned in a leaflet that it would
carry out suicide attacks to avenge the death of Sharif, who topped Israel's
most-wanted list.

"Hamas pledges to our martyred leader... that the martyrs will continue to fight
the occupier," the leaflet said

The threat comes as Israel prepares for the Passover holiday and 50th
anniversary celebrations and at a time when Israeli-Palestinian peacemaking is
already in crisis after the failure of the latest US peace initiative.

Hamas has carried more than a dozen suicide bombings in Israel since 1994.

Sharif was found dead at the scene of a car bomb explosion on the West Bank and
at first it was believed he had been killed by a premature blast.

But yesterday an autopsy revealed he had been shot, placed next to the car, and
the bomb detonated.

Palestinian officials immediately accused Israel of involvement in what they
called an assassination.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel had no role in the death.

Israeli police immediately began moving reinforcements to potential trouble
spots.

In a first sign of unrest, two dozen Hamas supporters threw stones at soldiers
in an Israeli enclave in the West Bank town of Bethlehem.

Sharif, 32, will be buried today. He was considered the heir of Hamas bombmaker
Yehiyeh Ayyash, who was assassinated with the help of a rigged cellular phone in
January 1996 in an operation widely attributed to Israel.

Hamas avenged Ayyash with four suicide bombings in the spring of 1996. The
blasts killed dozens of Israelis and were widely believed to have contributed to
Netanyahu's May 1996 election victory over the dovish incumbent, Shimon Peres.

At Sharif's family home, verses from the Islamic holy book the Koran blared over
a loudspeaker as relatives received mourners yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1998 Western Morning News

                              122 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             April 3, 1998, Friday

RING OF STEEL AT AINTREE AS BOMB GANG IS GRABBED;
CRACKDOWN: Red alert after fears renegade terrorists will launch attack on Grand
National...;
Grand National Bomb plot fails

BYLINE: Frank Corless And Neil Leslie

SECTION: Page 4

LENGTH: 834 words


CRACKDOWN: Red alert after fears renegade terrorists will launch attack on Grand
National

The Grand National is facing its biggest-ever security clampdown.

It comes after police smashed a terrorist plot to trigger a 1000lb bomb in
England.

Liverpool's famous Aintree course had been turned into a fortress to stop a
repeat of the chaos caused by last year's IRA hoax bomb threat.

But the discovery of the massive bomb in a car boarding an Irish ferry sparked a
razor- edge alert amid fears that the 365-acre course was the target.

Irish police revealed that an attack on tomorrow's National - or an attempt to
cause massive disruption by hitting a diversionary location during the race -
had not been ruled out.

Security sources said it marked a return to the old terrorist tactics of
launching "spectaculars" - huge blasts in key locations.

It would have been aimed at creating headlines around the world similar to last
year's Aintree evacuation, which the IRA saw as a propaganda coup.

The home-made bomb was uncovered in plastic bags in a white BMW car queueing for
the Stena Line ferry HSS Explorer at Dun Laoghaire, near Dublin.

The ferry was bound for Holyhead, north Wales, which is less than a three- hour
drive from Aintree.

The sophisticated device - similar to those used by the IRA in the Canary Wharf
and Manchester bomb outrages - was complete with booster tubes to maximise
ignition.

It was found in the back of the car and linked to a timer device on the front
passenger seat.

Police arrested the driver, a known republican from County Kildaire.

Army experts called in to defuse the bomb said it was one of the biggest
intercepted in the Republic.

Superintendent Pat Culhane said: "It would have caused massive damage and
probably loss of life.

"It was ready to go except it was not connected."

In the Dublin parliament, deputy Premier Mary Harney warned: "This could have
had a drastic effect on the Northern Ireland peace process."

Last night, security sources were pointing the finger of blame at a republican
paramilitary splinter group determined to derail the peace process.

And Scots terrorism expert Professor Paul Wilkinson said the bomb was probably
the work of the Continuity Army Council, a group which broke away from the IRA.

Merseyside police and Aintree officials remained tight-lipped on whether the
race would have been the target for the bombers.

But a source said: "It would be silly to rule it out. After last year, anything
is possible. We are on full alert."

Aintree's ring of steel was organised in months of talks between police, secret
services and Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch.

More than 1000 security guards and police, many of them armed, will be on patrol
to guard the 70,000 punters.

They will include guest of honour Princess Anne.

The fans will have to file through a maze of airport-style archway metal
detectors.

Parking in the centre of the course has been banned and 5000 fringe spaces had
to be booked at least two weeks in advance.

A huge park-and-ride scheme is being organised, with a fleet of buses booked to
take punters from at least two strategic pick-up points.

A special system has been developed to trace expected hoax bomb callers who have
been warned they will face up to seven years in jail.

Last year's mayhem saw Britain's biggest-ever peacetime evacuation.

Princess Anne and Labour politicians John Prescott and Robin Cook were among the
70,000 forced to flee. Many of them were left stranded after their cars and
coaches were impounded and had to spend the weekend in local people's homes or
temporary accommodation.

The then Prime Minister, John Major, was among more than 20,000 racegoers who
saw the National re- staged on the following Monday.

As 15,000 punters enjoyed the start of this year's meeting, Chief Inspector Lol
O'Donnell said: "We have got heightened security. We are going to be searching
all vehicles and every single person coming on to the site.

"We have got state-of-the-art equipment that will detect any untoward device.

"People are accepting it in the spirit we hoped."

Meanwhile, Professor Wilkinson warned that mainland police would need to stay on
heightened alert.

He believes the terrorists behind the latest car bomb would probably try again
soon.

He said: "This is the first time they have tried to mount an operation on the
mainland and it is a very significant development.

"In the past, we have seen them very active in Northern Ireland.

"A number of attacks have been thwarted with some useful operations by the Irish
police near the border.

"I don't think this is the last time they will mount something like that.

"I suspect they will move very quickly to remedy the interception of their
activities, and I think they will try again."

Professor Wilkinson, based at St Andrew's University, warned that the closer a
peace deal came, the more those opposed to it would use violence to try to block
it.


LOAD-DATE: April 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1998 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              123 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            April 4, 1998, Saturday

PUPILS HIT IN SCHOOL TERROR ATTACK;
Two girls were hurt yesterday after shots were fired from an airgun into the
playground at Edinburgh Royal High school

BYLINE: Callum Frew

SECTION: Page 5

LENGTH: 167 words


Two girls were hurt yesterday after shots were fired from an airgun into a
crowded school playground.

The attack, which sent panic through the playground, happened as the children
were returning to the classrooms after the lunch break.

Two teenage boys were later arrested by police.

The incident, which happened at Edinburgh's Royal High school, shocked pupils
and parents arrived to take their children home shortly afterwards.

The two girls were not seriously hurt. One was hit in the thigh by a pellet, the
other suffered similar injuries to her buttocks.

A third girl is thought to have received minor injuries, although it was not
clear whether she had been shot or not.

Two boys have been expelled from the 1100-pupil school, in the city's Barnton
area.

Acting rector John Murray said it was a matter of great concern.

One mother said: "School is the one place our children should be safe."

Police last night refused to reveal the ages of the boys who had been arrested.


LOAD-DATE: April 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1998 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              124 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 9, 1998

Youth gets six years for terror attack on aunt;
 MOTIVE STILL A RIDDLE, COURT TOLD

BYLINE: Howard Wheeler

SECTION: Pg.38

LENGTH: 285 words


TEENAGE thug Robert Allen, who battered and stabbed his great aunt in a
horrifying attack, has been sentenced to six years in custody.

Allen, aged 17, was convicted of the brutal assault on Vera Smith at Bristol
Crown court in February.

He had repeatedly stabbed his aunt and left her in a pool of blood, with a
fractured skull and wrist, after calling at her home in the village of High
Littleton, near Bath.

The motive for the attack remains a mystery despite psychiatric assessments on
Allen. The court heard yesterday that Mrs Smith, 67, who already suffered from
Alzheimer's Disease, has had flashbacks to the incident and will never be able
to live on her own again.

Bristol Recorder Mark Dyer said: "The appalling facts cannot be glossed over.
You carried out a very serious and prolonged assault on this elderly relation
who has shown you nothing but kindness."

Allen, dressed in a shabby grey sweatshirt and jogging trousers, showed no
emotion as he was sentenced. He has always insisted he is innocent and blames
others for the attack.

He lived just doors away from Mrs Smith and had visited her home regularly
before the attack in January last year.

Recorder Dyer sentenced Allen to six years youth custody, and said if he were an
adult he could be facing a life sentence.

He told Allen: "This old lady suffered from pre-senile dementia. The photos of
her are so horrific that your counsel asked that one of them not be shown to the
jury.

"This offence left her in a most terrible state. You did not even telephone the
emergency services."

Allen had been found guilty of causing grievous bodily harm with intent to cause
serious injury by a majority verdict.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              125 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                 April 10, 1998

Arson attack terror at flats

SECTION: Crime: ARSON, Pg.3

LENGTH: 207 words


RESIDENTS say they are living in fear after a suspected arson attack on a block
of flats.

Two people had to escape from windows after the blaze yesterday lunchtime in
Waldorf Court, Blaenymaes, Swansea.

Stuart Halfpenny leaped to safety from a first floor window while Nicola Randall
had to be rescued from the second floor.

The fire brigade believes the blaze was started deliberately by someone setting
alight a pile of rubbish inside the block.

But Stuart Halfpenny's sister Pauline claimed it was not the first time the
flats had been attacked.

"Someone tried to set fire to the flats next door a few months back," said Miss
Halfpenny, aged 34, of Portmead Avenue.

"Everyone is living in fear."

Miss Randall, aged 33, was petrified at how close she came to losing her life.

She claimed the front door to the block, owned by Gwalia Housing Society, had
been broken since September and children had been playing pranks on residents.

Miss Randall and other tenants have since been moved to alternative
accommodation.

"We are doing everything we can in assisting the tenants by re-housing them
immediately," said a Gwalia spokeswoman.

"All the necessary precautions against fire were taken in the building of the
flats."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 South Wales Evening Post

                              126 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             April 12, 1998, Sunday

ANGER OF A WIDOW AS TOP TERRORISTS GO FREE IN DEAL;
 WIDOW ATTACKS THE RELEASE OF TERRORISTS IN THE WAKE OF IRISH PEACE DEAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 239 words


SEVERAL notorious terrorist killers look set to be released from jails within
the next two years under the new agreement.

Brighton bomber Patrick Magee is likely to be among the hundreds who walk free
if the ceasefires hold.

Paul Kavanagh, convicted of the 1981 Chelsea Barracks bombing, and Hyde Park
bomber Gilbert Danny" McNamee will both be eligible for early release under the
new terms in which remission has been increased from half the sentence to
two-thirds.

Michael Stone, who opened fire on mourners in Belfast's Milltown Ceremony in
1988, loyalist leader Johnny "Mad Dog" Adair and Sean Kelly, the Shankill
bomber, could also be back on the streets.

The Belfast agreement makes clear that only prisoners connected to groups on
ceasefire will be released, so INLA and LVF prisoners will continue to serve
full sentences unless their leaderships declare cessations.

It also pledges that the need to protect the community" will be taken into
account when the releases are being signed.

But the move has provoked deep anger and hurt among those who have suffered at
the hands of terrorists.

Sandra Peacock, whose husband Jim, a prison officer, died in her arms after
being gunned down by loyalists in September 1993, was close to breaking down.

She said: "We have chosen the terrorists and I feel sick.

"It is just devastating and morally wrong. You cannot release convicted
killers."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              127 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      April 15, 1998, Wednesday Edition 1

Doorstep gun attack terror - Manhunt is launched after shooting on Tyneside
estate

BYLINE: By BRENDA HICKMAN and REBECCA HOPKINS

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 310 words


   A HUNT was launched on Tyneside today to find a gun attacker who blasted a
man in the chest.

Terence Fletcher, 26, of Elisabeth Avenue, Birtley, had to have emergency
surgery after being shot on the doorstep of his home.

The gunman fled as a crowd gathered around the injured man.

Police sealed off a large part of the Elisabethville Estate in Birtley,
Gateshead, as they began a hunt for the gunman.

Forensic experts were combing streets and wasteground around the scene of the
shooting in a hunt for clues.

Officers were interviewing families in surrounding streets and appealed for
anyone with information on the shooting to come forward.

Police would not comment on speculation over the motive for the vicious attack.

Residents say the victim may have been caught up in a feud.

Officers were called to a house in Elisabeth Avenue at 7.15pm by the ambulance
service and found Mr Fletcher lying injured.

He had emergency surgery at Newcastle's Freeman Hospital where he was said to be
"stable" today.

Officers immediately cordoned off a large area on the estate including waste
ground and parts of Elisabeth Avenue, Leighton Terrace, Lansbury Drive and
Quigley Terrace.

Police said it was difficult to establish exactly what happened and appealed to
people to come forward with information.

One neighbour said: "I'm new to the area, it used to be a bad area and I don't
want to say anything."

A 70-year-old man added: "Police came to my door and told me to get inside. I
hadn't heard a thing."

Det Insp Gary Calvert, of Gateshead West CID, said: "A team of officers is
making door to door inquiries and forensic experts are examining the scene."

He said the injured man was local and that his condition had not changed
overnight.

He urged anyone with information to contact the police on [0191] 454 7555.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CLUES - police officers hunting for the gunman sealed off parts of a
Birtley estate today while they comb the streets and nearby wasteland for clues
to the identity of the attacker who blasted a man on his doorstep

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              128 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 April 17, 1998

Plea for action after yob attack
 Terror as thugs kick down door

BYLINE: Barbican

SECTION: Boxfile: AT THE HEART OF THE COMMUNITY, Pg.4

LENGTH: 383 words


BARBICAN residents have stepped up calls for action to tackle loutish behaviour
after one man had to fight to stop hooligans attacking him in his home.

Nick Canever described how he desperately threw himself against the door to his
flat to prevent yobs, who had kicked their way into the building, from getting
at him.

Mr Canever, an NHS clinical psychologist, said he had to hold the unlocked door
shut during the terrifying ordeal, until the hooligans gave up and decided to
steal a GBP 100 bike in the hallway instead.

He said the attack was the second time thugs had invaded his home in the past
four months. In December a gang forced their way in and damaged two bicycles in
the hall.

Mr Canever, who lives in a third floor flat above Piermasters restaurant, said
the incident happened after he saw a man urinating against an outside wall of
The Navy pub and shouted at him.

"It's not an uncommon sight," he said. "I opened my window and told him to clear
off, but he gave me some abuse back.

'Then I heard other voices and then banging on the street door. They broke the
front door down and came up the stairs issuing threats. There were two or three
of them."

He said the yobs started pounding against his door and added: "I had to hold it
shut. Then they went downstairs and later I found a bike missing."

Mr Canever, 54, said his bike was untouched, but a bicycle belonging to one of
the restaurant's chefs had gone.

He said damage to his door cost about GBP 30 to put right, and he would pay for
the stolen bicycle, 'to compensate the chef'.

He denied he had provoked trouble, adding: "For telling people to clear off
because they are offending you, I would not use the word 'provoked'.

"I was frightened at the time, but now I feel justified and would do it again."

He said living on the Barbican could be like 'living in some jungle'. And added:
"I can hear yelling, shouting and swearing at night, and see serious fights
taking place.

"I think the licensees should be more discriminating about who they serve."

Police spokeswoman Sharon Newman said officers were investigating and looking
for a 24-year-old white man, 5ft 8ins to 5ft 10ins tall, with dark collar-length
hair and a centre parting, a gaunt narrow face, and wearing a blue shirt and
dark trousers.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: UNDER THREAT: Nick Canever with his broken door lock Picture Mike Cox
DBS1312

                         Copyright 1998 Evening Herald

                              129 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 April 17, 1998

FAMILY'S ARSON
ATTACK
TERROR

BYLINE: By Justine Hollins

SECTION: Crime: Arson, Pg.1

LENGTH: 273 words


A MUM dragged her nine-year-old daughter out of bed as they fled their home in
terror after arsonists set fire to their kitchen.

Julie Wall was about to go to bed when she heard the sound of breaking glass at
her home in Ramsbot-tom Street, Crewe at 10.20 pm last night.

At first the 30-year-old thought it was the sound of the TV but as she reached
the bottom of the stairs she saw her kitchen was well alight.

Today firefighters said the pair could have been killed had they been asleep
when the blaze broke out. Sub officer Paul Rowlands, of Crewe Fire Station,
said: "If the occupants had been asleep they could have been killed by the
smoke.

"A window in the kitchen had been broken from the outside and there were eight
spent matches on the floor.

"Someone had pushed lit paper through the broken pane which has set the contents
of a bin alight. The fire soon took hold in the kitchen."

She said: "I was absolutely petrified and didn't know what was happening. I rang
the fire brigade as quickly as I could and then rushed upstairs to get Amy out
of bed. We managed to get outside before the fumes spread upstairs.

"I just don't know why this has happened. The shock is only just sinking in and
only now am I thinking we could have died if we had been asleep.  Because of the
Easter holidays I was up later than usual, and I could easily have been in bed."

Both Miss Wall and her daughter returned home this morning after being treated
for smoke inhalation at Crewe's Leighton Hospital.

A spokesman for Crewe CID said today: "At this stage we have no idea why this
attack took place. It is being treated as arson."

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Julie Wall's boyfriend John Taylor examines the bin where the fire was
started. JON BARTHOLOMEW

                          Copyright 1998 The Sentinel

                              130 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                 April 23, 1998

Victim of attack talks of his terror

SECTION: Crime: Assault, Pg.2

LENGTH: 251 words


The 18-year-old victim, who does not wish to be named for fear of being attacked
again, was repeatedly kicked after he fell to the ground just off Aikman Avenue,
New Parks, during a chase by his attackers.

His deaf friend, who was with him when the group threatened the attack, managed
to escape unharmed.

The victim was left was a broken cheekbone, broken nose and damage to his left
eye.

Vicious

"I was terrified. One bloke was kicking me over and over and he wouldn't stop,
until another guy pulled him off. I don't know what would have happened if that
guy had not been there," said the teenager, who lives in the New Parks area.

He and his friend were walking home from a night drinking in the Good Neighbours
pub, when the attack happened about 10.30pm on Sunday.

Detective Constable Sean Lynch said: "This was a particularly vicious and
unprovoked attack which has left the victim with nasty injuries.

"Although he is out of hospital at the moment he has got to have more hospital
treatment and possible an operation later.

"It is most important that anyone who can help in any way at all comes forward
and tells us what they know so we can catch the people responsible."

The attackers were all white men in their early to mid 20s. The main attacker
was about 6ft tall, had blond or mousy brown, short hair and wore a bright
yellow or mustard coloured jacket.

Anyone with information should ring Det Con Lynch at Beaumont Leys CID on 0116
222 2222 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1998 Leicester Mercury

                              131 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        April 24, 1998, Friday Edition 1

Syringe thug's terror attack

BYLINE: By BRENDA HICKMAN Crime Reporter

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 182 words


   A BUS stop attacker threatened to give a woman Aids by stabbing her with a
contaminated syringe before forcing her to hand over £70.

The terrified 22-year-old was left shocked but unhurt after the robbery at the
bus shelter outside the Novocastrian club, in Stanhope Street, in Newcastle's
West End.

She was waiting alone at 1pm yesterday when she was approached by a man and a
woman.

The man pulled out a syringe from his pocket and told her he would give her Aids
if she did not hand over cash.

The pair had London accents and police appealed to anyone who may have seen the
couple to contact them.

The robber was 5ft 9in, about 25, with a pale complexion with a shaven head. He
wore a blue padded jacket and jeans and had a distinctive tattoo of an eye on
the back of his neck.

His accomplice was about 5ft 3in, thin, in her 20s with long, black hair.

A CID spokesman said: "This was a frightening experience for the woman. She was
not hurt but was afraid he would use the syringe. We would like anyone who may
know the pair to contact us on 0191 214 6555."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              132 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            April 25, 1998, Saturday

Tebbit in attack on release of terrorists

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 173 words


LORD TEBBIT accused the Government of double standards yesterday for preparing
to release convicted IRA terrorists from prison as part of the Northern Ireland
peace agreement while allowing the prosecution of suspected Nazi war criminals.

The former Tory Cabinet minister, whose wife Margaret was paralysed in the
Brighton bombing, said that IRA terrorists should be dealt with as criminals and
should not be released on the ground that their crimes were "political".

In a question tabled in the House of Lords, he sought to highlight government
inconsistency by asking whether it would prosecute people for crimes committed
"for the political purposes" of the Nazis or to bring to justice those who
committed crimes "in pursuit of the political programme of the Serbian
Government".

Some Tory MPs have also announced they will oppose the amnesty in defiance of
William Hague. Under the peace agreement up to 440 IRA terrorists could be
released early. They include Patrick Magee who planted the 1984 Brighton bomb.


LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              133 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                  May 2, 1998

Hunt for attacker in teen terror sex ordeal

SECTION: Supplement: Daily News, Pg.20

LENGTH: 149 words


A sex attacker who abducted a teenage schoolgirl from a telephone kiosk before
subjecting her to a terrifying ordeal was being hunted today.

The 14 -year-old was making a phone call when the man struck, blindfolding her
at knifepoint and forcing her into his car.

She was made to lie between the front and rear seats while he drove for up to an
hour and a half before putting her through a sex ordeal at a house.

Police have described the attack in Swindon, Wiltshire as "frightening and
distressing".

An incident room with a team of 15 detectives has been set up to trace the
attacker.

The frightening assault was on Wednesday night, but details were released for
the first time at a press conference yesterday.

A Wiltshire Police spokesman said the man threatened to kill the teenager if she
tried to raise the alarm as he drove around the town before launching the sex
attack.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1998 Evening Herald

                              134 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                  May 4, 1998

Mortar attack on police base;
 Terrorist bombing attempt thwarted

BYLINE: By Una Bradley and Nathaniel Bane

LENGTH: 372 words


A MORTAR attack on a Belfast police station was aborted early today when the
bombs failed to fire.

Two mortar tubes with small bombs still in the firing tubes were found after a
police search in the Broadway area.

The search, close to Grosvenor Road RUC Station, began after a small explosion
was heard in the Devenish Close area, followed by a puff of smoke.

Residents in nearby homes were evacuated after Army technical officers sealed
off the area around 6am.

It was thought they would carry out controlled explosions after the vicinity was
thoroughly searched.

A fun walk part of the Belfast Marathon which was scheduled to go up the
Grosvenor Road and onto the Falls Road was diverted.

Walkers went up West Link and Broadway instead.

Meanwhile, a large section of Newry town centre was cordoned off this morning
after a taxi was hijacked and its driver forced to park outside the RUC station.

Early morning workers were forced to evacuate the area surrounding Corry Square
just after 4.30am.

A RUC spokesman said that after a taxi had earlier been called to a house in
Barcroft Park, three masked men emerged and put a gun to the head of the cab
-driver.

They put a wheelie bin into the car and told the driver to drive into the town
centre.

"A number of houses were evacuated," the RUC spokesman said.

An Army technical officer was called to the scene and after several hours,
declared the device to be a hoax.

But the RUC spokesman said that Army experts were looking into a second vehicle
parked in the same area near Caulfield Place.

A worker evacuated from his premises said: "You can't blame the police you can
only blame those who put the thing there."

Another worker, who had arrived for a 7am start and was kept waiting at the
barriers for several hours, said he would be losing money.

He added: "This will get us nowhere."

Deputy Sub-divisional Commander at Grosvenor Road, Chief Inspector Russell
Martin, said the marathon, scheduled to go up Grosvenor Road, could be affected
by the security operation.

Contingency plans were made for the runners to go through Durham Street, into
Sandy Row and up the Donegall Road, back onto the Grosvenor Road.


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              135 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                              May 5, 1998, Tuesday

BOMBERS HIT BACK;
 TERRORIST 'REBELS' BLAMED FOR WAVE OF ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 4

LENGTH: 361 words


REPUBLICAN dissidents stepped up their campaign of violence yesterday.

Last night, police were still investigating reports of explosions on the cross
-border railway line between Newry and Dundalk.

A railways spokesperson said there had been a small explosion near Red Bridge
and that services were likely to be disrupted while claims of a second device
were investigated.

Earlier, thousands of marathon runners had to be rerouted at the last moment
after a failed mortar attack on Grosvenor Road RUC station left two devices
lying only yards from the original route.

The competitors had to be rerouted as a security operation swung into action at
Devenish Close, off the Grosvenor Road.

The Mark 6 mortars, of the type previously used by the IRA, were fired at the
station late on Sunday night but missed the target, police sources said.

The attacks come only days after a foiled car bomb attack in Lisburn, and all
have been blamed on dissident republicans determined to wreck the Stormont
Agreement.

Condemning the mortar attack, DUP deputy leader Peter Robinson claimed it showed
there was an enormous degree of spin, hype and hypocrisy over the suggestion
there was a peace process.

"Here we have people out for a day's fun and what is the answer of the
terrorists? - see what they can do to disrupt and destroy," he said.

"Very clearly we have nothing which remotely approaches peace."

Chief Inspector Russell Martin said the indiscriminate nature of the devices
used had put the lives of many local people at risk, while the city's Deputy
Lord Mayor Jim Rodgers said the attack was clearly aimed at disrupting the
showpiece sporting event.

"The main aim of those involved was to kill and injure members of the RUC and
Army, but this has also caused tremendous inconvenience to the marathon and I
would pay tribute to how quickly the organisers have been able to change things
around."

West Belfast SDLP councillor Margaret Walsh said those behind the attack were
"yesterday's men".

"The organisers have done the right thing by not letting them get in the way of
what is a great fun day for our city," she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOW GOES ON: runners taking part in Belfast's marathon had to be
rerouted to the Falls Road yesterday as security forces carried out searches
following a mortar attack on Grosvenor Road RUC station late on Sunday night

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              136 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                  May 9, 1998

Court told of attack terror

SECTION: Pg.14

LENGTH: 182 words


DRINK-crazed Nicholas Hall, who burst into a woman neighbour's flat as she slept
naked in bed and "unceremoniously" pulled off the covers, was jailed for 18
months yesterday.

The 33-year-old carpenter was wielding a baseball bat and subjected Lisa Pond to
a terrifying ordeal before she fled from her Cheltenham home with only a towel
to cover herself, Gloucester Crown court was told.

Hall launched the bizarre attack because of long standing hostility between
himself and Miss Pond's boyfriend Paul Hagerty, the court heard.

He had been drinking heavily when he burst into her flat and at one stage was
foaming at the mouth, said Timothy Hills, prosecuting. Miss Pond was alone in
the flat above Hall's in Grosvenor Street, Cheltenham.

Hall was still violent when police arrived and he head-butted one officer,
causing a wound which needed five stitches.

Hall admitted common assault on Miss Pond, affray and making a threat to Miss
Pond that he would kill her boyfriend Paul Hagerty. He further admitted
assaulting P-c Anthony Goodwin causing actual bodily harm.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              137 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                  May 11, 1998

'Time warp' terrorists launch mortar attack;
 Rebels will 'fade away'

BYLINE: By Chris Thornton and Damien McArdle

LENGTH: 567 words


IRISH republican dissidents who attacked an RUC station at the weekend will
'fade away', mainstream republican sources said today.

Predicting that the group of militants will continue to carry out attacks,
Provisional IRA sources said the effectiveness of the defectors will begin to
wither.

The dissident IRA, which has been carrying out unclaimed attacks since January,
announced itself at the weekend with a 'declaration of war' on the British
Cabinet.

The group, which claims to be the 'true IRA' and is aligned with the 32 County
Sovereignty Committee of Sinn Fein, followed the statement by mounting a mortar
attack on Belleek RUC station.

The devices misfired in their tubes as the RUC was evacuating the area.

The dissident group was also boosted by the reported defection of one of the
IRA's most senior bombmakers, a west Dublin man.

One of the group's leaders is the former quartermaster general of the IRA, who
has given the dissidents access to arms. There have also been suggestions that
the group could join forces with the Continuity IRA.

"They are obviously dangerous," said one Provisional source.

"But they don't have the popular support you need to run a long-term campaign.

"When it comes to finding safe houses and that sort of thing, you need people
behind you and they haven't got them."

The attempted robbery of a Co Wicklow security van in which dissident IRA man
Ronan MacLochlainn was shot dead is an indication that the group has limited
resources, the source said.

Another source said Sinn Fein's support for the Stormont Agreement is an
indication of which way the republican movement is headed.

"These people (the dissidents) haven't brought the bulk of the movement with
them," said the source.

"And that's what is important."

During yesterday's Ard Fheis, Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams said the dissident
IRA's declaration of war was 'opportunistic public relations'.

He said the rebels are attempting to 'unnerve republicans' as they make a
historic decision.

Secretary of State Mo Mowlam said the dissidents are 'desperate'.

More than 100 guests attending a wedding reception at a Belleek hotel were
evacuated when Saturday's mortar attack occurred.

Carlton Hotel manager Seamus Rooney explained he was notified by police that
some sort of device had been discovered at the rear of the building.

"Within a few minutes most of the wedding party and guests were, unfortunately,
on the main street heading towards the top of the town," he said.

The devices were spotted just under an hour earlier beside holiday cottages at
the hotel complex by a passing police patrol, around 200 yards from their
intended target.

"The mortar bomb attack was the work of desperate people who have nothing
constructive to offer," Dr Mowlam said.

"Again I say that we shall not be intimidated by attacks of this kind.

"The people of Northern Ireland and not terrorist splinter groups of any sort
will decide democratically the future of the peace process."

The attack was also condemned by Fermanagh SDLP councillor Tommy Gallagher, who
lives in Belleek.

"The people responsible for this dangerous action seem to be caught in a time
warp," he said.

"The people in this community refuse to remain in that time warp. They are angry
with a small group who are trying to hold everybody to ransom."


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              138 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                          Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                                  May 11, 1998

FIREBOMB TERROR
 Attack on village pub

BYLINE: Sarah Arnold And Paul Gilder

SECTION: Fires, Pg.1

LENGTH: 400 words


TERRIFIED landlady Elizabeth Fox told today how she and her children were
trapped in their Messingham pub after a mystery 'Molotov cocktail' attack.

Ms Fox was cashing up in the early hours of this morning when she heard a smash
and turned round to see flames blocking the only exit from the pub.

Her children, who had been asleep upstairs, became hysterical as smoke billowed
around the pub.

The attack was the second incident in two days at the Crown pub - on Saturday
night a brick was smashed through a window.

But defiant Ms Fox, who has multiple sclerosis, said the pub would be open today
as usual.

"I am going to carry on as normal as this is not going to stop me," she said.

"I have been a landlady here for seven years and never had any trouble I just
can't understand why someone would want to do this - I just want to see them
caught."

Police have launched a probe into the "petrol bomb" attack which happened around
12.30am.

Ms Fox said her children, aged 12 and 13-years-old, were asleep in their beds.

"I was in the front room cashing up when I heard a crash," she said.

"The night before I had a brick thrown through the window so I haven't slept in
two days.

"My labrador started to bark, I heard a crash and then the smoke alarm went off.

Hysterical

"I pressed my panic button, which goes straight to the police station and I
could see big flames near the door, which is the only way out.

"My children woke up and it was hysteria as we couldn't get out.

"The smoke started coming upstairs so there was no way I could have gone down
and unlocked the door."

Fire crews and police arrived within minutes and a police officer extinguished
the remains of the petrol bomb.

"Police said I could come down then and unlock the door, but I can't remember
much after that," said Ms Fox.

Three fire engines from Scunthorpe attended, and crews carried out an
inspection.

Det Insp Dave Cressey of Scunthorpe CID said: "Somebody has gone to the rear of
the Crown Pub, allegedly broken a window near to the rear entrance and thrown in
a milk bottle which contained some form of flammable liquid and a lighted wick.

"A police officer extinguished what remained of this gadget."

A Humberside Fire Brigade spokesman said: "It looks like there was some sort of
petrol bomb thrown through a rear window."

Anyone with information should telephone police on (01724) 274200.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                              139 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                  May 16, 1998

Terror attack three jailed

SECTION: Courts: CROWN, Pg.3

LENGTH: 251 words


THREE Swansea men have been sentenced to a total of 16 years in jail for
kidnapping, beating and subjecting a city man to a terrifying ordeal.

Carmarthen Crown Court heard how Lee Davies was beaten with a monkey wrench,
taken to a remote area, doused with petrol and threatened with the same fate as
murder victim Danny Dyke.

Before the court were John Horton, aged 30, of Rhondda Street, Mount Pleasant,
David Bevan, aged 39, of Clyne Court, Sketty Park, and Jay Daniels, aged 35,
also of Rhondda Street.

All three were convicted of kidnapping Mr Davies and causing him grievous bodily
harm with intent. Horton was further found guilty of robbing Mr Davies of GBP
60.

Judge Roderick Evans QC said the full motive would never be known but Horton
believed Mr Davies had threatened his friend Carl Ross while they were both in
Swansea Prison. Mr Ross hanged himself in prison in October.

Judge Evans said: "You, Horton, shook a petrol can in front of him and said he
would be the next Danny Dyke, a reference to a drug dealer whose burnt remains
were found on the mountain not far from where you took him.

"You, Horton, sprinkled liquid over him from the petrol can. He was expecting to
go up in flames. Daniels said you should stop because matters were going too
far."

Horton was sentenced to six years to be served after the remaining 428 days of a
previous sentence.Bevan and Daniels were jailed for five years with Daniels
ordered to serve the remaining 175 days of an earlier sentence.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 South Wales Evening Post

                              140 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                              May 17, 1998, Sunday

KIDS' TERROR IN CHURCH GUN ATTACK;
 ARMED MAN OPENS FIRE IN DUBLIN CHURCH

BYLINE: Fiona May

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 238 words


TERRIFIED children - aged between seven and eight - dived for cover when an
armed man opened fire in a packed Dublin church as they received their first
Holy Communion yesterday.

Two men - believed to be a local member of Sinn Fein and his son - were injured
in the drama.

Around 70 youngsters, along with hundreds of parents and friends, were in St
Joseph's RC church in the Ballymun suburb when the gunman marched in and sparked
panic.

He appeared to single out one of the men before shouting: "You're dead." He then
opened fire, hitting his victim in the back.

The gunman ran out, after shooting twice in the air, but was pursued by
worshippers.

The second man was wounded in the scuffle that followed.

Local sources said the injured men were Dublin Sinn Fein councillor Larry
O'Toole and his son, who suffered a chest wound.

Both were taken to Mater Hospital but first reports indicated that neither was
badly injured. Larry O'Toole was a candidate for his party in a Dublin
constituency at last year's Irish general election but it was not clear, though,
whether the attack had been politically motivated.

Police, who were at the scene within minutes, later took a man into custody.

Many of the children - the girls in white dresses and the boys in suits - burst
into tears following the shooting, which happened just after Father Terence
Twohig had begun the first communion ceremony.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              141 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                  May 18, 1998

MY PETROL ATTACK TERROR
 I thought I was going to die, court told

BYLINE: By Alistair Munro

SECTION: Crime: Assault, Pg.1

LENGTH: 522 words


A JEALOUS boyfriend poured petrol over a North-east man in front of an open fire
during a frenzied attack, the High Court in Aberdeen heard today.

Brian Leask, 31, of 1 Coastguard Houses, Collieston, said: "I thought I was
going to die."

Mr Leask claims Englishman Stephen Porter and two masked men forced their way
into his former home at Thrums Cottage, also in Collieston.

Mr Leask said Porter, 34, of 56 Norman Road, Snodland, Kent, was angry about him
seeing a woman called Tracy Forbes.

She was due to move from Kent to stay with Mr Leask on June 24, two days after
the alleged attack.

He said Porter repeatedly kicked and punched him and hit him on the hand with a
knife. He

also said he repeatedly swore at him, ordering him not to see Tracy again. He
claimed Porter threatened to do him and his daughter serious injury.

He told the court: "He put the knife down on the settee and gestured to one of
the other two men who handed him a petrol can.

"He opened it and told me to open my eyes and look at him, which I did not do. I
kept my head down and face covered.

"I was punched again a couple of times, so I did look up and petrol was thrown
on to my face and splashed over me."

He said a nearby stove was lit. "I screamed continuously and thought I was going
to die."

Porter denies assaulting Mr Leask to his severe injury, permanent impairment and
to the danger of his life.

He also denies assaulting Gordon McIntosh, of Collieston, who had been visiting
Mr Leask at the time of the alleged attack last June 22.

Asked by advocate depute Ronald Clancy whether he was threatened in any other
way by Porter, Mr Leask said: "He said he was going to make sure that I would
never mess with any other woman. He said he was going to cut off my genitalia."

Mr Leask said the gang left soon after the incident. He went to Aberdeen Royal
Infirmary and called the police from there.

He did not contact them immediately because he said: "I was scared for my own
life and my daughter's life."

Mr Leask added that Porter took photographs of him and Mr McIntosh after the
attack.

During cross-examination, defence counsel James Reilly accused Mr Leask of being
involved in the drug scene and claimed the reason he was attacked was over "some
failed drugs transaction".

Mr Leask replied: "That is totally wrong."

Mr Reilly put it to Mr Leask that he had taken at least 30 minutes before
contacting police to cover his tracks - a suggestion he denied.

He also denied that a photograph of the accused he was shown by police officers
while in hospital influenced him when identifying Porter in an ID parade on July
4.

Giving evidence, Tracy Forbes, 28, who now stays with Mr Leask, said Porter
pestered her with phone calls after she told him she was leaving and going to
stay with Mr Leask in Collieston.

She said: "He was telling me not to go. He said I still loved him and that I was
making a mistake."

She added that Mr Leask's address was kept in her handbag to which Porter had
access.

Porter denies the assault charges, claiming he was in Kent at the time of the
allaged attack.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              142 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 19, 1998

Sierra Leone rebels inflict random terror;
Vicious attacks by vanquished soldiers are to scupper peace.

BYLINE: GARY YOUNGE IN MAKENI WRITES

SECTION: The Guardian Foreign Page; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 583 words


THE rebels came for Kulo Korban on Saturday night. They left him with a letter
and took away three of his fingers and both ears.

"I was asleep when I heard a knock on the door. Then four men kicked it down and
dragged me away. They tied me to a pole and said, 'Today is your last day'. Then
they just started chopping with machetes and cutlasses all around my head and
arms.

"When they had finished they told me, 'Go to Kabbah (the Sierra Leonian
president) and see if he will give you a new hand'. They put the letter in my
other hand."

The note was addressed to the Nigerian-led West African military force Ecomog
and demanded its immediate withdrawal from the area.

Mr Korban, a mechanic aged 20, is sitting in the outpatients' wing of the Makeni
hospital dripping blood into a bowl on the floor while doctors sew up the stumps
of his fingers. On the right side of his head fresh lint covering the wound
where his ear used to be is already turning red. On the left there is little
more than a lobe and a deep red gash.

They have not seen a gunshot wound at Makeni hospital for weeks. Just the steady
flow of amputees, mutilated by soldiers of the former junta, coming from
villages as close as eight miles away. Some are aged under five, others are over
60.

There was Mohammed Mustapha, a building contractor, aged 55, who lost his hand,
his ears and his 15-year-old daughter Aminata, who was taken away by a rebel
soldier claiming to know Mohammed.

And Awakale, a mother of six who walked four miles with her left arm hanging off
after a man posing as an imam rounded up people from her village and started
hacking at them.

Relief workers tell stories of gang rapes, people burned alive and fathers
mutilated because they refused to rape their daughters. Survivors say many are
still hiding in the bush and others have been killed.

They are the daily tales of brutality at the hands of rebels who know they
cannot win the war but hope to scupper any hopes of a lasting peace by
unleashing violence as random in its choice of victims as it is vicious in its
execution.

Makeni, a small town in central Sierra Leone, is where the leaders of the former
junta fled when they were ousted from the capital, Freetown, in February.

"When they came they thought it was like a carnival," said Mahmud Hassan, owner
of the Flamingo nightclub who sent his children into the bush soon after the
rebels arrived. "They started shooting their AK-47s all over the place. Then
they broke into the nightclub and took all the cold drinks from the freezer and
started dancing. We called it 'Operation Help Yourself'."

A few days later Makeni, which lies a few miles from the home town of the rebel
leader Johnny Paul Koroma, was recaptured by Ecomog. It is now surrounded by
small gangs of troops loyal to Mr Koroma who are launching hit and run attacks
on small villages.

Dr Baker, who runs Makeni Hospital, treated many rebel soldiers when the junta
took over the town. Now the same people he nursed back to health are threatening
to mutilate him. He is considering leaving town.

"They keep on sending me letters saying they are going to kill me. Once a man
even came here and asked for me by name but because he didn't know what I looked
like I told him that Dr Baker had gone," he said.

"But others know me. Even here", he gestured to the 100 or so people in the
hospital courtyard. "They have their spies who are telling them everything we
are doing."


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              143 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       May 20, 1998, Wednesday Edition 1

Sick slurs in race attack - Youngsters are left in terror after yobs target
group promoting harmony

BYLINE: By COLIN McNEILL

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 363 words


   RACIST thugs have attacked the headquarters of a youth group trying to build
bridges between Tyneside's ethnic minorities.

Right-wing extremists daubed fascist messages and symbols on the walls of the
Newcastle Youth Congress building in the sickening attack.

Beaten

It follows an assault on a 15-year-old black youth last week.

He was cut with a knife, had his bike stolen and told never to return to
Newcastle's West End or he would be severely beaten.

Anti-racist campaigners are urging people to call police if they know the yobs.

They have blamed the vandal attack - on the NYC building in the city's Westgate
Road - on Combat 18, a neo-Nazi organisation.

A spokesman for the NYC said: "We are sure it was the work of Combat 18 as they
left their mark behind.

"Our minibus was sprayed with red swastikas and the words Combat 18.

"There were also labels left around saying 'North East C18 Racists: Immigrants
and Jews out now.'

"The back door of the building also had offensive messages including KKK in red
paint. We were told that a nearby bus stop, telephone box and church were also
targeted."

Some of the younger members of the NYC are now too frightened to turn up to help
the group, which aims to boost multi-racial links. "Some of our volunteers are
frightened to visit the building in case of another attack.

"We don't think this will be the last visit from the thugs but we will not be
driven away," said the spokesman.

Detectives are investigating the attack. A police spokesman said: "The graffiti
incident was reported to us and the racial incident investigations unit is
looking into it.

Footage

"They have taken forensic evidence away for examination and they are also
studying CCTV footage taken nearby for clues.

"This is the first incident for a while but it is the 193rd racist incident so
far this year and we have a 60 per cent detection rate on those."

NYC is a voluntary group, partly funded by Newcastle City Council, which fights
to promote racial equality in the city.

A city council spokesman said: "We totally condemn any racist attack and we will
do all we can to make sure it is not repeated."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EXTREME WING - Combat 18 marchers surrounded by police at a recent
rally in London. It is feared the group was behind the racist attack

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              144 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                         May 22, 1998, Friday Edition 1

Terror gang attack caught on cameras - Police warning to troublemakers after
filmed thugs are caught and jailed

BYLINE: By BRENDA HICKMAN Crime Reporter

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 309 words


   THESE are the sickening scenes of violence captured on closed-circuit TV
cameras - which brought terror to a seaside town.

They show a gang of Tyneside men attacking a group of Merseysiders who were
celebrating a stag weekend in Whitley Bay.

Police said the tranquillity of a sunny Sunday afternoon last July was shattered
by violence resembling a scene from the Wild West.

Witnesses outside Rio's bar on the Promenade said the victims were singled out
by the gang and repeatedly headbutted, kicked while on the ground, stamped on
and hit over the head with chairs.

Four Merseysiders needed hospital treatment, one having 15 stitches to two head
wounds.

Now police who tracked down the attackers have released these photos as warning
to others who think they can get away with violence.

Three of the attackers were jailed at Newcastle Crown Court for violent
disorder.

Chief Insp Allan Curry of Tynemouth police said: "This was appalling violence
which left innocent victims with serious injuries. When the men responsible were
confronted with the evidence they had no defence. We'd like to warn others,
especially those coming to the coast for the traditional bank holiday
festivities that, with the help of CCTV, and the partnership we have with the
licensees here, we'll track down and arrest troublemakers."

Thomas Ferry, 34, of Sydney Grove, High Farm, North Tyneside, was sentenced to
three years. John Wharton, 27, of Emmerson Place, Shiremoor; Graeme Kelso, 27,
of Chollerford Avenue, North Shields; and Kevin MacInnes, 25, of Roseberry
Grange, Benton, Newcastle were each jailed for two years. Joseph Kelso, 39, of
Chollerford Avenue, North Shields, was bound over to keep the peace for two
years in the sum of £750.

The violence erupted for no apparent reason, the court was told.

(c) comment - Page 27

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORRIFIC ASSAULT- the closed-circuit TV cameras capture the terrifying
moment when the gang of thugs attacked the group of Merseysiders outside Rio's
bar on Whitley Bay Promenade

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              145 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            May 27, 1998, Wednesday

70 LIFTED IN SWOOPS ON TERROR SUSPECTS;
At least 70 suspected Islamic activists were questioned yesterday after police
raids aimed at stopping terrorist attacks at the World Cup

BYLINE: Lesley Wright

SECTION: Page 2

LENGTH: 213 words


At least 70 suspected Islamic activists were questioned yesterday after police
raids aimed at stopping terrorist attacks at the World Cup.

The suspects were lifted in co-ordinated raids in France, Belgium, Italy,
Germany and Switzerland.

But last night the SFA insisted the Scotland team were not in danger of attacks.
And police security chiefs said the Tartan Army should not be put off going to
the World Cup.

Police in Europe hope to isolate Islamic groups to prevent terrorist
disturbances during the event.

A Scotland Yard source said the raids followed intelligence provided by British
detectives.

At least 30 alleged Islamic activists were detained around Paris and another
dozen in the southern port of Marseille by anti-terrorist police and local
police forces.

Last night, the SFA insisted there was no need for team security to be
tightened.

Willie McDougall, SFA security adviser, said: "French police do not envisage any
problems for Scotland. Team security will be very tight."

Strathclyde Police assistant chief constable Peter Gibson, who is co- ordinating
Scots fans' security, said: "In any major event there is a threat of terrorism.
The French authorities are taking the appropriate action and it should have no
bearing on fans attending."


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1998 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              146 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            May 27, 1998, Wednesday

70 LIFTED IN SWOOP ON TERROR SUSPECTS;
At least 70 suspected Islamic activists were questioned yesterday after police
raids aimed at stopping terrorist attacks at the World Cup

SECTION: Page 3

LENGTH: 62 words


At least 70 suspected Islamic activists were questioned yesterday after police
raids aimed at stopping terrorist attacks at the World Cup.

The suspects were lifted in swoops in France, Switzerland, Italy, Germany and
Belgium.

But last night, the SFA insisted the Scotland team were not in danger. Security
chiefs said the Tartan Army should not be put off going.


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1998 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              147 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                  May 27, 1998

Police in five European countries cracked down on suspected Islamic militants
yesterday in a massive sweep aimed at preventing terrorist attacks during the
World Cup.

SECTION: Pg.22

LENGTH: 323 words


Police operations were carried out in France, Belgium, Italy, Germany and
Switzerland to snare alleged members of Islamic networks, primarily from
Algeria, said the French Interior Ministry.

Authorities in the five countries hauled in at least 77 suspected Islamic
activists for questioning.

The operation was aimed at isolating militant Islamic groups from one another in
hopes of deterring any terrorist action during the June 10 to July 12 World Cup
in France.

A statement by the French Interior Ministry said the operation followed several
months of surveillance that led police to "suspect the preparation of terrorist
activity in the run-up to the World Cup".

The ministry said the operation aimed to dismantle "a network of dissident
extremists" from the Armed Islamic Group that is seeking to install strict
Muslim rule in Algeria.

French police sources said the operation primarily had targeted networks loyal
to Hassan Attab, a dissident AIG leader who wanted to bring the Algerian
conflict to Europe. French authorities detained two men considered to be
Hattab's top allies in Europe.

France's leading anti -terrorist judge, Jean-Louis Bruguiere, led the
European-wide operation.

French police are on high alert just two weeks before the World Cup opens. The
soccer bonanza is expected to draw hundreds of thousands of fans from across
Europe.

Several weeks ago, French police found a bomb similar to those used in a bloody
wave of attacks in the summer of 1995 for which Islamic militants claimed
responsibility.

Led by anti-terrorist police, French police swooped at dawn into at least 10
different locations throughout the country - including Paris, Marseille and Lyon
- in a co-ordinated search.

At least 53 alleged Islamic activists were detained across France, and documents
and large sums of money were seized, the Interior Ministry said.

Police sources said no weapons or bombs had been confiscated.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1998 Western Morning News

                              148 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  June 6, 1998

TAKING A SLATE INTO THE FUTURE;TERRORISTS ATTACK CIVIL SERVICE COMPUTERS. INFO
BOMB CHAOS. VIRTUAL TERRORISM BLITZ. POLICE SUSPECT BRITISH UNIONIST MOVEMENT.

BYLINE: Roy Petrie

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 890 words


The HERALD SATurday JUNe 6, 1998 www.scotgeist.com edited by Pat Kane page 31

HERALD FORUM

DEBATING... Too much Scots in Schools / Multi-media pollution / the
deconstruction of Scottish welfare...

BERATING... Kane - from radical to reactionary / Over-paid MSP's / Football's
lost nobility...

CELEBRATING... Angela Eadie's Oscar success / Reintroducing the Highland Bear /

Join In!

Touch Here:

E T H I X

She's not real, but she might as well be - she's kind, considerate, loving...But
what happens when you don't want to switch your Virtual Girl off? And worse -
what if she asks you not to? JOCK TRANSOM on when that mutual spark becomes more
than a flash at the on-switch. PLUS: he's pre-digital - eek! + loving your clone
+ losing your e-card + robo-maid or human-maid...

THE UNION

.TRANSLATION FOR ALL

All EU citizens are to be given McSoft's latest language-translation software as
a free state download from next month, President Blair announced an hour ago in
Brussels. The President praised the Parliament for this "far-reaching and
public-minded" move. "We keep Europe diverse, but we bring Europe closer
together - classic Third Way politics", said the President.

.OP-ED: CURRIE

. PORN-NETS LIKE "A MORAL CANCER": Official i-space is simply being evaded by
the porn corporations, claims John McLeod, The Union's Behaviour Commissioner.

.SIMPLISSIMA TAKES MILAN: The anti-progress commune seized control of Italy's
most industrialized city in yesterday's e-referendums, immediately announcing a
four-day municipal holiday.

GLOBAL & OFF-WORLD

.GTUC PLAYS HARDBALL: Ricardo Friere, president of the Global Trades Union
Congress, rejected the UN/World Business's latest offer on a planetary minimum
wage spectrum.

.ISLAM REFORMATION SUMMIT: Today's agenda includes non-Western science, a
"democracy for Islam", and Hollywood obscenity. OP-ED: SARDAR.

.MUSCLE ROT WORRIES MOON AUTHORITIES: Long-term employees at the Lunar Hilton
and the Lunar Ana are displaying "terminal physical atrophy", say doctors

THE B L U R

KULTUR 21C

The news that American pulserock star Lesley Marinello underwent surgery to
change sex for a couple of months has opened a window into a sub-culture for
whom gender has become just another fashion accessory. PLUS: Arab Strap back +
Gamemeister goes

YOU ONLY LIVE THRICE

CONNERY'S BACK ON SCREEN...

By Theodore 12, Blur Correspondant

Veteran Scottish sex symbol Sean Connery is aiming to prove the traditional
maxim that older men make better lovers when he returns to the screen after a
five-year absence in 2029 as the male lead in a screen adaptation of Julie
Burchill's fifth autobiography, Excess.

The news follows from recent allegations that Connery had helped beat the
ravages of time through the controversial technique of "cell reversal" - the
bio-process that effectively rewinds a person's cell degeneration by around 30
years. Illegal in the UK, it flourishes among America's celebrity

.

SPORT

* FITBA: Cyborg scandal still rages at IBM Morton

- Manager Burley accused of "engineering" Mega-League victory

- Amputations rumoured

* BIO-OLYMPICS: 100 m in six seconds - the transhuman ChemoKid does it again in
Athens.

SEARCH CATEGORIES

OP-ED

* PAT KANE: HUNTING DOWN THE GBU. "Prime Minister Cooper has it in her power to
track these info-bombers down to their last, fetid lair. Why doesn't she
exercise it? Doesn't she want to?"

* ZIAUDDIN SARDAR: ALL HAIL THE REFORMATION! "Slowly, surely, one sensible
resolution at a time, this Islam Convention is bringing the world's most popular
religion into global legitimacy. We should all be rejoicing wildly".

* NICHOLAS CURRIE: BABEL DEMOLISHED. "Using one of these translation machines is
like being turned into a robot yourself. We're parcelling out our precious human
intelligence to the digital culture. And they may not give it back".

* JANE MCCORMICK: A PATHETIC FEUD. "It should be a simple matter to divide up an
oil-field which nobody wants very much anyway. But it's clear that the
power-personalities of Cooper and Sturgeon - and perhaps too many brain
-boosters - is turning simple diplomacy into public farce".

POWER AND MONEY

POST-SOFT, 15 YEARS ON: Why the break-up of Microsoft had a mixed legacy, says
our Financial A-Life Correspondant, Quantifia

GREENTECH STILL ON A BOOM: Scotland leads Europe in Factor-Four technologies,
notes Rob Brown. It's due to a nimble state, a smart populace - and the
"Adventurers" of the new enterprise generation.

MORE...

"RIVIERA EDINBURGH' OFFICIAL

Globally warmed capital completes beach complex

ASTEROID THERAPY

Eighty new VR - clinics announced in the C-Belt

NEW SHETLAND CRISIS

Corruption in the Island Parliament at record levels

KIDS ELECT NEW LEADER

Profile of Bravery Hart, Scotish Children's Panel

COOPER REJECTS STURGEON DEAL

English PM rejects First Minister Sturgeon's treaty

ORGAN FARMS "A HORROR"

Protests as limb factory opens

TOO FAST IN BELFAST

Adams bemoans "rampant hedonism"

POST-SOFT, 15 YEARS ON

Why the break-up of Microsoft had a mixed legacy

GREENTECH STILL ON BOOM

Scotland leads in eco-technologies

BIO-OLYMPICS

Transhuman breaks record in Athens

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: E2/scotgeist imagineering: Roy Petrie

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              149 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        June 12, 1998, Friday Edition 1

Terror attack on girl

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 131 words


   A TEENAGE girl was indecently assaulted as she went home on a bus.

A man shouted obscenities at the 16-year-old shop assistant, then sat next to
her and indecently assaulted her.

The girl, from Washington, had to wait until the attacker got off the bus before
she could report the assault on the Go Wear Buses 294 service.

Det Insp Gavin Hedley, of Washington CID, said the man walked up and down the
bus on the journey.

After the attack he got off at Ennerdale, Albany Village, Washington, but got on
again. He had a row with the driver then got off at The Galleries, Washington.

The attacker is 45, 6ft, with short white/grey hair, unshaven, with a large
pointed nose and ruddy complexion. He wore a short cream jacket, green cardigan
and brown trousers.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              150 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                                 June 16, 1998

eye on world cup bombers
 How firm is safeguarding fans against terror attacks

BYLINE: By Sam Higginson, News Reporter

SECTION: Sport: World Cup, Pg.1

LENGTH: 419 words


FANS and players at The World Cup are being guarded from terrorist attack by a
Beverley firm.

Bosses at Sensor Electronics, of Flemingate, hope to overcome the threat of
terrorism during the competition, using a network of infra-red devices.

The company has installed the machines at various venues throughout the
tournament to alert security staff to possible terrorist breaches.

The 60 cone-shaped Sentor 640 devices are backed up by a surveillance system of
hidden cameras to guard against people planting bombs in hidden corners of
football grounds.

Sales and marketing manager Jeremy Crooks said: "There has certainly been a lot
of discussion around the world about the possibility of a terrorist attack
during the tournament.

"With such a high profile, an event like the World Cup would be seen by some
organisations as an opportunity to gain publicity and recognition for their
aims."

He added: "We will be using the infra-red devices around the different stadiums
to protect vulnerable areas including exit and entrance points.With these
devices we will be able to make sure nobody is in any area they shouldn't be.

"The Sentor 640s will act as an overt warning to fans not to go in certain areas
and this security will be backed up by other devices including hidden cameras."

The Sentor 640s devices each have two infra-red beams which rotate through 360
degrees. If these are broken by intruders, security guards can then be sent to
the scene immediately.

Sensor Electronics developed the devices so they can easily be moved from one
area to another, wherever the threat is greatest.

This means that when matches are being played, security guards can focus on
possible crowd trouble within the stadium in the knowledge that the sensors are
on the lookout for people who may be trying to plant bombs under the stands.

Other fields in which Sensor Electronics has used its equipment include guarding
perimeter fences at RAF airfields around the world and protecting royalty,
including the British royal family.

The firm intends to expand into the American market this year by teaming up with
GEC Marconi.

Mr Crooks said: "This is an excellent opportunity for Sensor to capitalise on
our current world leading position.

"The World Cup contract was a result of our distributors in France. We have
hired out the equipment and the contract and is worth thousands of pounds to us.

"But hopefully these measures are just a precaution and the World Cup will go
ahead without any trouble."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: RED ALERT: Jeremy Crooks with two of the Sentor devices similar to
those in use at the World Cup

                         Copyright 1998 Hull Daily Mail

                              151 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 June 19, 1998

New terror raid on shopkeeper
 Newsagent attacked for the second time

BYLINE: By Jayne Free Crime Reporter

SECTION: Pg.26

LENGTH: 190 words


A NEWSAGENT has been robbed by a weapon-wielding thug for the second time in six
months.

A man armed with either a baseball bat or stick walked into Kenward and Sons
Newsagent in Clifton Place early yesterday.

He ordered the lone shopkeeper - who does not want to be identified - to hand
over cash from the till before escaping with around GBP 100 and some cigarettes.

Police were today viewing video footage from the shop's security camera.

It is the second time in six months that the shop has been raided.

Stitches

In January, the shopkeeper needed four stitches after he was stabbed in the side
by a robber with a knife as he grappled with him.

The robber made off with a small amount of cash. The shopkeeper was taken to
hospital but was back behind his counter the next day.

The robber in yesterday's attack is described as white, in his early 20s, 5ft
6ins tall and slim. He had long sideburns to the bottom of his ears, straight
dark hair and a long face.

He was wearing a check shirt and was carrying a carrier bag.

Anyone with information is asked to contact police at Charles Cross CID on
Plymouth 0990 777444.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1998 Evening Herald

                              152 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                 June 19, 1998

driver denies terror attack
 Jury told of assault at nursing home

BYLINE: By David O'Callaghan

SECTION: Courts: CROWN, Pg.1

LENGTH: 312 words


A PENSIONER was indecently assaulted by a man as she lay terrified and screaming
in her bed, a crown court jury was told.

The woman was a resident at an Ammanford nursing home when Anthony Davies
allegedly got in.He was arrested outside soon afterwards.

But when quizzed by police the heavy goods lorry driver claimed he had simply
been looking for his dog and had never gone into the Cartref Anwyl Fan home.

Davies maintained he had been doing nothing more than wandering in the area
looking for his pet.The 25-year-old denies denies burglary with intent to commit
rape.A Swansea Crown Court jury was told that Davies, of Colonel Road, Betws,
indecently assaulted the pensioner in the early hours of January 14.Police
arrested him nearby shortly after the alarm was raised.

He claimed he was innocently looking for his dog.

But the jury was told fibres similar to those on the defendant's clothing were
found on a sheet and a nightdress belonging to the woman.

Davies denied entering Cartref Anwylfan on the night in question.

Wine

"I did not go into any part of the building and it was not me who committed the
indecent assault," he told defence barrister Trefor Davies.

The court heard that Davies had gone to a friend's flat in Ammanford on the
evening of January 13.

There he had drunk wine and a Mexican spirit.

Davies said that as he walked home he continued to drink from the Mexican spirit
bottle.

Drive

When he arrived home, he did not go inside because he thought the family dog was
still out.

"I went to investigate when I saw the dog heading across from our drive into the
premises of the nursing home," he told the court.

He denied that he was trying to hide when a police officer approached him there.

He told the court: "The allegations against me are false and I have given a
truthful account to the jury."

The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 South Wales Evening Post

                              153 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                 June 20, 1998

Deer-attack terror

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 237 words


CANCER victim Kevin Pike says he is too scared to visit Wollaton Park after he
was attacked by a deer as he walked his dog.

The 40-year-old went for a quiet stroll in Wollaton Park after undergoing
radiotherapy treatment at Nottingham City Hospital.

But as he entered the park from Derby Road a deer began jumping on his terrier,
Tilly, and then butting him.

Mr Pike, of Handslow Avenue, Lenton Abbey, who has had a lung removed because of
cancer, said: "It was very frightening.

"The deer was jumping on Tilly and it kept bumping me. I couldn't run away
because I have had a lung removed and I can't get my breath.

"Tilly was yelping and the only thing I could do was drop her lead so that she
could run. It has put me off visiting the park."

He called for fencing to stop the deer herds mingling with visitors.

"I have been going to the park for a long time and I have never had an
experience like this before.

"I had been to the hospital and I wanted to relax so I went for a walk," he
said.

Mr Pike had his lung removed after doctors discovered cancer, but the disease
spread to his lymph glands.

A spokesman for Nottingham City Council, which owns and manages the park, said
deer had attacked dogs in the past.

But he added: "This is the first time for a while we have had a report of it.

"It is not the human that they go for, it is the dog because they think it is
going to threaten the herd."

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1998 Nottingham Evening Post

                              154 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        June 22, 1998, Monday Edition 1

Two in sex attack terror

BYLINE: By DAVID TROUT

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 200 words


   DETECTIVES stepped up their hunt for sex attackers in a Tyneside town today
after two women suffered terrifying ordeals at the weekend.

A 15-year-old girl walking home late at night was attacked at knifepoint and
indecently assaulted and a 37-year-old woman was raped in the same area shortly
afterwards.

Police in South Shields say they are keeping an open mind on whether the same
man was responsible for both attacks.

"It's too early to say," said a Northumbria Police spokesman.

The 15-year-old girl was walking home from Felling to South Shields when she was
dragged into bushes by her knife-wielding attacker in Victoria Road, near
Western Approach.

Struggle

She was sexually assaulted but managed to struggle free to tell police. Her
attacker ran off.

About an hour later the older woman was raped as she returned to her home in the
town's Laygate area, less than a quarter of a mile away.

She was dragged into a back lane off Western Approach and suffered severe
bruising in the attack.

The frightened schoolgirl managed to give police a description of her attacker.

He was aged 30-40, about 6ft with thinning hair. He was pale faced and had a
local accent.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              155 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                                 June 23, 1998

Gunpoint terror at hands of masked attacker

SECTION: Crime: Weapons, Pg.4

LENGTH: 258 words


POLICE were today hunting an armed and masked man who held three people at
gunpoint in Hessle before cycling off.

Ian Dimmack stumbled across the gunman in a tenfoot which leads from Hull Road
to the Boothferry Road Estate, Hull.

He today told the Mail the bizarre incident had left him extremely shaken.

"I didn't feel anything at the time, but afterwards I was shocked and scared. I
was there no more than five minutes," said the 28-year-old, from Pearts Arch,
First Lane, Hessle.

Armed police carried out a search for the gunman but failed to find him.

Mr Dimmack told how he was walking home when he noticed two people on the
ground.

"At first I thought it was someone trying to help a drunk," he said.

"Then I saw this man with a gun wearing a Balaclava and pointing the gun between
a man and woman on the ground. They were on the grassed area beside the path.

"I tried to get past them but he told me to come back. He shouted a few
obscenities and made me lay down with them.

"None of us knew the man. At first he walked off and we got up and walked away.
He came back and we ran behind some old people's homes. We rang the police
straight away from the girl's house."

Mr Dimmack added: "I don't know what it was all about. It was a weird situation.
We thought he may have been on drugs."

A police spokeswoman confirmed that officers had spoken to a 32-year-old man and
his 29-year-old girlfriend about the incident which happened at 12.30am on
Monday.

Their inquiries are continuing and they plan to speak to Mr Dimmack.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1998 Hull Daily Mail

                              156 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 June 24, 1998

TAZ THE TERRIER'S TERROR ATTACK;
 Court orders muzzle

BYLINE: JOHN LE COUTEUR

SECTION: Pg.31

LENGTH: 241 words


THE owner of a Staffordshire bull terrier has been ordered to keep it muzzled in
public after it launched a savage attack on an 18-week-old puppy.

The puppy, called Hedges, suffered a broken jaw and needed an emergency
operation following the attack at Mangotsfield.

Lorraine Noble, aged 31, of Fairlyn Drive, Kingswood, admitted that her bull
terrier Taz was not under proper control.

North Avon magistrates were told yesterday that the attack happened on Rodway
Common, which is popular with dog walkers.

Police solicitor Jane Murphy said the owner of the puppy Hedges was also on the
common when it was confronted by Taz the terrier.

She told magistrates: "Hedges rolled over onto his back with his tummy in the
air when, in the owner's words, the bull terrier went mad.

"It had its teeth across Hedges jaw and when Mrs Noble lifted her dog up Hedges
was still attached.

"Hedges was hanging from his mouth."

The Chief Constable of Avon and Somerset, Steve Pilkington, has won an order for
Mrs Noble to keep her dog under proper control and to be muzzled in a public
place.

Mrs Noble said the incident was out of character for Taz.

She told the court: "We have never had any problems with Taz.

"He has never shown any aggression before.

"He has always behaved well while playing with our two children."

She agreed to abide by the ordered and was also ordered to pay 48.50 towards
police costs.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              157 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 June 25, 1998

Democratic destiny;
 Bomb attack: Voters must give terrorists their answer

LENGTH: 417 words


THE bomb in Newtownhamilton puts into sharp focus what today's election is all
about - using the power of democracy to drive out terrorism. It could and should
be an own goal, of World Cup proportions, for those determined not to let the
people have their say. To underline their point, the bombers aimed their attack
at a community centre used as a polling station. They won't be influenced by
votes.

It is a message, common throughout Northern Ireland's history, that the voters
can show their contempt for today. There has been a sea change, whether the
republican dissidents like it or not, in the way that unionists and nationalists
look at each other, since the Good Friday Agreement. For the first time in any
election, the constitutional issue has hardly featured because it was
effectively settled, for a long time to come, by the two referendums.

There are still plenty of differences between the parties, although only two
officially oppose the broad will of the majority expressed last month. They
differ over the way the north-south bodies will operate and how long it will
take for an executive to be formed, but they are making a common stand - again
for the first time - against those who would try to threaten the whole peace
process.

The bombers will find that instead of forcing people to retreat into their
traditional camps, and reducing the Assembly's chances of success, they have may
have reinforced the intention to vote Yes to change. The Newtownhamilton bomb
represents a past and a future which people almost universally reject. If
conflict is what the most intransigent terrorists want, without hope of a
political solution, how can anyone fail to cast a vote for the alternative?

Northern Ireland has been given a chance, which its people have already endorsed
by a large majority, to elect an Assembly that restores an element of
self-government to local hands. It represents an enormous gamble, for
nationalists as well as unionists, and it will need all the help it can get from
a membership that is focused on making it work. There will be enough problems,
accommodating republicans and loyalists, without having to cope with a
significant anti-Agreement rump.

A new era of pluralism and co-operation is dawning, which offers a more
profitable future, in every way, not just for this generation but for
generations to come. The politicians have bravely done the necessary deals to
get us there; now we, the voters, have to play our part.


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              158 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            June 25, 1998, Thursday

'I THOUGHT THAT WE HAD PEACE';
 THIRTEEN-YEAR-OLD BOY DETAINED IN HOSPITAL AS ANOTHER SHOCKED ULSTER TOWN
CLEANS UP AFTER A TERRORIST BOMB ATTACK ON THE EVE OF HISTORIC ELECTION

BYLINE: Lindsay Fergus

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2, 3

LENGTH: 455 words


A MASSIVE car bomb may have blown the heart out of Newtownhamilton yesterday but
it hasn't killed the spirit of its people.

Last night, businesses and homes lay in ruins after the blast ripped through the
picturesque south Armagh town, population 1,800, shortly after 2.40pm.

The source of the car bomb, a stolen silver Opel Omega, with Eire registration
number 90 D 16154, was left close to the RUC base in or around lunchtime.

Security forces had only 10 minutes to clear the area following telephone
warnings to two Belfast newsrooms.

Police later confirmed that the bomb consisted of 200lbs of home-made explosive.

Two people were hurt in the attack which gutted the town's square and Armagh
Street areas.

One of the injured was a 13-year-old boy, who was detained in Newry's Daisy Hill
Hospital overnight with a deep laceration to his shoulder.

His condition was described as comfortable. A number of other people were
treated for shock.

The explosion, which has been claimed by the INLA seems to have only added to
residents' determination to cast their votes in today's assembly election.

An elderly Dungormley estate resident, who asked not to be named, had tears in
his eyes as he spoke of the "craziness" of the attack.

"It's happened before and once again it would bring a tear to your eye.  It
makes you wonder what the world is coming to," he said.

"I was lying in bed at the time with a dose of the flu. Everything just shook
and I knew right away that it was an explosion. It's bad, very bad," he said.
"Although I feel desperate, it definitely would not put me off voting, in fact
it will make me go out all the more."

Harriet Bingham, who lives in Castleblaney Street, was sweeping up glass from
the windows of her home.

"I was just standing at my front door and the next thing it went off.  I was
shocked and frightened. I had heard there was a bomb but I thought it was a
hoax,"she said.

"I am disgusted. It is a shame that these people had to do this. I thought that
we finally had peace - some peace."

She added that although she was fearful about voting today, she did admit that
she would probably cast her vote.

Local shop owner Andrea Clark was left pondering her future after her
Newtownhamilton home bakery and chip premises were seriously damaged in the
explosion.

Last September Andrea's home was devastated in a mortar bomb attack in
Markethill.

"I had just moved the car and locked up the shop when the blast went off behind
me," she said.

"It's a shame and disgrace. I live in Markethill and my house has still not been
fixed since the bomb nine months ago. I do not have a home and now I do not have
a means of making a living."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERROR AFTERMATH: the clean-up begins as the injured are tended to in
Newtownhamilton;; DESTRUCTION: a lone soldier patrols the devastated street of
Newtownhamiliton

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              159 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             June 26, 1998, Friday

HUNT IS ON FOR M-WAY TERROR GANG AFTER BRICK ATTACK

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 259 words


Two lorries were almost forced off a stretch of Midland motorway when they were
pelted with bricks by children on an overhead bridge.

The drivers of the lorries, travelling northbound on the M6 near Stafford, were
forced to brake and swerve when their windscreens were struck by the missiles
thrown from the Barn Bank Lane bridge, in Burton Manor.

The first driver was able to regain control of his vehicle and pull up on the
hard shoulder after the brick bounced off his windscreen, while the woman driver
of the second lorry reported seeing children on the bridge just before she was
struck.

Both drivers were unharmed but were severely shaken.

Police have now launched a hunt for a gang of children thought to have been
behind the attacks, which happened on Wednesday night.

Insp Barry Parish, of Stafford CID, said throwing objects on to motorways could
cause very serious accidents, even deaths.

"The potential for fatal accidents is very high and we don't want people to
misunderstand it," he said.

Last night police were due to question people around the Burton Manor area. Mr
Parish added: "People might have been out walking the dog in the area at the
time and may have seen the children before, during or afterwards."

The episode is not being connected to any previous incidents but Insp Parish
said he wanted to send a clear message to people that such attacks would not be
tolerated.

"We want to catch the people who have done this, but our main object is to stop
it. We don't want copycats," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              160 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 June 30, 1998

Man, 37, attacked in baseball bat terror

BYLINE: By Rob Cotterill

SECTION: Crime: Assault, Pg.7

LENGTH: 248 words


A MAN was beaten around the head with a baseball bat in a terrifying night-time
attack.

Two assailants pounced on the victim near his home in Manor Rise in the Walton
area of Stone.

The 37-year-old man - who is not being named by police - was hit several times
around the head with the weapon and sustained a gash to his head.

The two offenders then fled the scene on foot following the vicious assault.

The injured man was taken to Staffordshire General Hospital in Stafford for
treatment for his injuries, but was allowed to return home later.

Inspector Mark Hallam at Stone Police Station said: "We are working towards
establishing a motive, but the reason for the attack remains unknown at this
stage.

"We are treating this attack very seriously indeed. The injured man had a
beating around the head with a baseball bat.

"We don't know whether there was a reason for the attack or whether it was
totally unprovoked. But we are at the very stages of our investigation into the
incident."

One of the men police are hunting in connection with the attack is described as
white with short cropped hair and muscular build. He was wearing a blue striped
T -shirt.

The other offender is believed to a white teenager who was about 5ft 4in tall
with short blond hair. He was wearing denim jeans.

Police have now launched an appeal for witnesses to the attack, which took place
at just before midnight on Sunday. Anyone with information should contact
officers on 01785 812401.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 1998 The Sentinel

                              161 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            July 1, 1998, Wednesday

WOMEN IN KNIFE ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 198 words


A WOMAN who was tied up in her flat by a knife-wielding attacker was petrified
and thought she was going to be killed, Birmingham Crown Court was told.

Phillip Dunbar allegedly bound the hands and feet of the woman and a friend.

Miss Kristina Montgomery, prosecuting, said Dunbar beat and humiliated the two
women as they lay bound on a bed and indecently touched one of them.

But Dunbar told police the women had consented to being tied up and it had all
been part of a sex game.

Desperate

Dunbar (37), of Garretts Green Lane, Garretts Green, Birmingham, denies two
charges of false imprisonment, indecent assault, assault, intending to pervert
the course of justice and two allegations of intimidation.

One of the women told the court she was so tightly bound she could not feel her
hands or her feet.

She said she saw Dunbar pass a large knife across her friend's body on a number
of occasions.

Asked how she felt, she said: "Petrified.

"I thought he was going to kill me."

She said Dunbar eventually released the women.

They were so desperate to escape she set a net curtain alight in the hope
someone would see the blaze.

(Proceeding)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              162 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        July 2, 1998, Thursday Edition 7

Terrorists in church arson attacks

BYLINE: By Ian Graham

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 132 words


   The Loyalist Volunteer Force was today blamed for arson attacks on 10
Catholic churches across Ulster as tensions mounted over this weekend's Drumcree
parade.

Three churches were destroyed in a wave of attacks, seen as a clear attempt to
stir up trouble ahead of the re-routed march on Sunday.

The LVF, the extreme loyalist paramilitary group, was to blame, police sources
said.

Churchmen and politicians condemned the attacks, which came just before Tony
Blair announ-ced he was flying to Ulster this afternoon in a bid to signal his
support for yesterday's launch of the new assembly in the province.

The Prime Minister will also use his visit to examine at first hand one of the
churches hit by arson attacks overnight and to express his condemnation of such
action.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              163 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        July 4, 1998, Saturday Edition 1

Youth's terror attack on bus

BYLINE: by Garry Willey

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 169 words


   A BOY hurled a lump of concrete through a bus window and injured a passenger
because he did not like the driver.

The 13-year-old, already convicted of assault with intent to rob and burglary,
staged the attack in Armstrong Road, Scotswood, Newcastle.

He flung the concrete as the bus passed a disused building. It smashed through a
side window where Robert Cheel, 60, and his wife were sitting.

Jagged

Mrs Cheel ducked and shouted a warning when she saw the teenager pull back his
arm, Newcastle Crown Court heard.

But her husband was cut and bruised as the window samshed in a hail of jagged
glass.

Driver Michael Cherry recognised the boy, who can't be identified for legal
reasons, and police arrested him next day.

The teenager was put on two years supervision after admitting criminal damage
and assault.

Judge Helen Paling said her powers were severely limited because of the boy's
age but she warned him: "It was an appalling thing to do. You could have killed
someone."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              164 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  July 4, 1998

Schoolboy tells of attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 384 words


A schoolboy on trial for murder told the High Court in Glasgow yesterday he
could only look on in terror as two of his friends attacked a man with knives,
poured boiling water over him, and then tried to sever his head.

The 15-year-old boy who cannot be named for legal reasons is on trial along with
Martin Stewart, 18, Mr Andrew Milligan, 20, and Deborah Scanlon, 16, accused of
murdering Paisley man Mr David McMaster, 49, in his home at Maree Road, Foxbar,
on February 9.

The youth told the High Court in Glasgow that he was "scared and shocked" and
wanted to leave Mr McMaster's home but his friend Martin Stewart threatened he
would "get it next".

The schoolboy told Mr Ronald Watson, defending, that he and the others had gone
to Mr McMaster's house to dry off after getting soaked in the rain.

An argument started when Stewart switched the television on to watch something
and Mr McMaster switched it off.

The boy claimed that Stewart told Mr McMaster: "You f..... old b......, this is
my house."

He added: "Martin was getting cheeky with David and we all joined in getting
cheeky with him. It got out of hand."

The boy admitted that he punched Mr McMaster on the face when the man put his
hands round Milligan's throat.

After that Stewart punched Mr McMaster and then repeatedly slashed his face with
a Stanley knife.

Milligan then returned from the kitchen with a bread knife and cut Mr McMaster's
throat before stabbing him in the neck with a screwdriver.

Stewart also poured a kettle of boiling water over Mr McMaster, then started
hitting him with the kettle.

Said the youth: "His eyes were closed. I thought they had killed him. I was
scared but I couldn't get out of the place because Martin, who had a breadknife
in his hand, wouldn't let me."

Finally the boy described how Milligan and Stewart put papers round Mr McMaster
and set the body on fire.

Asked why he had told police he was responsible for all the assaults on Mr
McMaster, the boy claimed that Stewart had ordered him to, telling him that he
would only get five years in an approved school if he took the blame.

During his evidence, the boy claimed that his girlfriend Deborah Scanlon had
nothing to do with the attack.

The trial before Lord Penrose

continues.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              165 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              July 6, 1998, Monday

PRIEST TELLS OF ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 110 words


A MIDLAND priest today told of his terror after being attacked in his own house
by a robber armed with a 14-inch kitchen knife.

Father John Woods was confronted in the presbytery of St Mary Magdalene's
Church, in Much Wenlock, Shropshire, on Saturday night by a youth wielding a
steel kitchen knife.

Mr Woods aged 65, said today: "He demanded money and I thought I had better not
try and be the hero, so I opened the safe.

"He was not satisfied with what was in there so he cut my right hand and asked
for more. I gave him what was in my wallet, and he made off with about pounds
120.

The youth was described as a white male, aged about18.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              166 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                  July 8, 1998

Bomb attack victims tell of their terror

BYLINE: By Paul Connolly

LENGTH: 311 words


STUNNED families told of their terror today as an armed mob blitzed their homes
with blast and petrol bombs.

Gunmen fired three shots during the early morning raid on houses in Lurgan's
Collingwood Avenue.

At least one blast bomb exploded in a garden after bouncing off a double -glazed
living-room window.

The same house was also set on fire by petrol bombs and at least three armed men
were reported to have stood guard over a masked loyalist gang.

A male pensioner was taken to hospital with chest pains and two women were
treated for shock after the 1am attack.

The owner of the most badly damaged house, who has a two-year-old daughter,
said: "We fled upstairs as soon as we heard the commotion.

"The petrol-bombs had actually set part of the house on fire and then the blast
bomb exploded outside the living-room. It was terrifying".

The man's house suffered scorch, smoke and blast damage.

Another local man, 31-year-old civil servant, John Ward, said: "I saw two men
with handguns raised and my wife saw another with what we think was a shotgun.

"I heard three shots and later we found empty casings. They had lighted petrol
-bombs and were just plastering houses with them.

"I also saw one man take out a bomb, light it and throw it.

"It bounced off the glass and there was a huge flash, a puff of white smoke and
a loud explosion. If it had gone through the window people could have been
killed or injured."

The father-of-two said after the gang fled towards the loyalist Mourneview
estate, local people put out the flames enveloping at least two homes.

"It was like something out of Bosnia," Mr Ward added. "This started about three
years ago and now we get it during times of tension.

"But I am still in a state of dumb shock. The attack lasted about ten minutes
but it seemed to go on forever".


LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              167 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 July 10, 1998

Towpath sex terror;
 JAIL FOR DRINKER IN ATTACK ON GIRLS

BYLINE: Beverley Hawes

SECTION: Pg.14

LENGTH: 282 words


CANAL towpath sex attacker David Boon was jailed for four years yesterday after
a court heard how he pounced on two terrified 16-year-old schoolgirls as they
walked home.

The attacks in Ebley, Stroud, were more than a year apart but were almost
identical and had left both girls mentally scarred, Gloucester Crown court
heard.

Mr Michael Longman, prosecuting, said one of the girls thought she was going to
die as Boon held her down with his hand so tightly across her mouth and nose
that she was choking and could not breathe.

The other was convinced he was going to rape her.

Boon, aged 31, of Lansdown, Stroud, admitted indecent assault. He was jailed for
two years consecutive on each charge.

Mr Longman said the first girl was walking home after a game of rounders when
Boon burst out from a hedge and attacked her.

The second attack was 13 months later when another girl was walking along the
path approaching Dudbridge Hill

Boon jumped on her back and pushed her to the ground.

She screamed continuously to attract attention. Boon fled.

He was arrested shortly after and was picked out on an identity parade by both
girls.

The girls had both suffered emotional trauma from the incidents, Mr Longman
said.

The first victim had been bubbly, outgoing and trusting before the attack but
had now "lost that sparkle" and never walked anywhere alone.

The second girl's work had suffered and she had become pale and weepy.

Mr Peter Heywood, defending, said Boon was so drunk on both occasions that he
could not remember anything about the attacks.

The judge ordered Boon to register with police for the rest of his life as a sex
offender.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              168 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            July 11, 1998, Saturday

POLICE FOIL TERROR BOMB ATTACK IN LONDON;
 TERRORISTS SET TO BOMB LONDON ARE ARRESTED

BYLINE: By Jon Hunt

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 333 words


Armed police swooped on an Irish terrorist ring in London last night, foiling a
bomb plot with just minutes to spare.

Three men and a woman were arrested, some of them carrying explosive devices
primed ready for use, as British and Irish police mounted a joint operation.

The arrests happened as the Prime Minister Mr Tony Blair launched a last-ditch
initiative to break the deadlock over the Drumcree Orange march in Northern
Ireland.

Scotland Yard said the bomb plot was the work of dissident Irish republican
terrorists, the 32 County Sovereignty Committee.

Scotland Yard's Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Grieve, head of the Anti
-terrorist Branch, said: "We believe these terrorist devices were intended to be
used in London within minutes."

The arrested suspects, believed to be posing as students, were taken to police
stations for questioning.

Two of the men were arrested at about 4.30pm in Thomas Doyle Street, Southwark,
south London. The third was arrested at 4.30pm in Gower Street, central London.
He is thought to have been going to the University College London building.

A fourth person - a woman - was arrested in the vicinity of Oxford Street. No
-one was injured during the operation.

The swoop in London followed raids by police in Dublin and the border town of
Dundalk, Co Louth, in the Irish Republic.

The action came after an operation by the Garda, the Irish police, against
hardline organisations determined to resist the Ulster peace deal.

In Ulster the Prime Minister sent his chief of staf Mr Jonathan Powell, to the
province to organise "indirect contact talks" between the Portadown Orangemen
and the nationalist Garvaghy Road Residents' Association.

His dramatic intervention came amid fears of escalating violence and civil
disorder as the loyalist marching season approached its climax on Monday.

Up to 100,000 loyalist demonstrators are expected to converge on Drumcree.

Comment/Page 50

Analysis/Page 51

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Heavy presence: British troops carrying shields and wearing riot gear
prepare to board a Chinook helicopter in a field above Drumcree Church.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              169 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        July 13, 1998, Monday Edition 1

Driven out by terror attacks - Community leader frightened to live in her flat
any more

BYLINE: By MATT CASEY

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 211 words


   CRIME-busting community leader Debra Dolman is being forced out of her home
by attacks by yobs.

She's now so scared of living in her flat with only her dog for protection that
she is spending more time with family and friends and wants to be rehoused.

Debra, 29, an asthma sufferer, said the attacks began in May last year when
pieces of concrete were thrown through her bedroom window, showering her with
glass. She fled screaming with her dog.

She armed herself with a shovel and raced to her mother's home nearby for help.

Debra believes someone is trying to drive her out. The attack came only days
after bleach was thrown over her clothes on the line outside her flat in The
Drive, Usworth, Washington. Then a marble was catapulted at her window.

But Debra, chairwoman of the 300-member Save Our Streets Residents and Tenants
Association, is not giving in. She said: "Keys have been broken in the lock and
I've had to change the locks.

Grudge

"I don't know whether it's because of my work with the association or a personal
grudge. But I'm just too scared to live there any more."

Now she has applied to Sunderland Council for a home nearby so she can stay
leader of the association but intends to keep her new address a secret.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PLEA FOR NEW HOME - residents' group leader Debra Dolman says she will
keep her new address a secret

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              170 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 July 14, 1998

Paper girl sex attack terror

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 116 words


POLICE are hunting a pervert who indecently exposed himself to a 15-year- old
girl working on a morning paper round.

The man watched the teenager for around ten minutes as she worked in Malvern
Road and Lansdown Terrace, Cheltenham.

He then exposed himself to her, chased her along the road and grabbed her arm.

The girl managed to escape and the man fled.

She was left very distressed but unhurt by the incident, which happened at
around 10.20am on Sunday.

Police are hunting a man who has exposed himself to a number of women and
children on the Abbeymead and Abbeydale housing estates in Gloucester.

The latest incident was on Sunday off Redstart Way, Abbeydale.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              171 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 15, 1998, Wednesday

SON MURDERS MUM AND KILLS HIMSELF IN STREET;
 SHOPPERS' TERROR AT KNIFE ATTACK;
 MAN STABS MOTHER TO DEATH THEN KILLS HIMSELF

BYLINE: Jan Disley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 358 words


A CRAZED son slashed his mother's throat in front of horrified shoppers before
killing himself yesterday.

Mark Major, 43, fought off passers-by who tried to help 76-year-old Joyce Major
as she lay dying in the street. He then plunged the bloodied knife into his
stomach. The tiny pensioner was already dead by the time an ambulance crew
arrived. Her son died on the way to hospital.

It is believed the double killing was sparked by a row over M'ark losing his
driving licence because of epilepsy.

Malcolm Shorrocks, 48, told how his 44-year-old brother tried to save Joyce
after the attack. He said: "Graham had been at the doctor's. When he came out,
he saw a grey-haired woman lying on the pavement.

"There was blood pouring from her neck. Graham tried to go to her aid but this
man attacked him. He managed to fight him off but got his fingers severely cut.

"Graham is now under the doctor's care suffering from shock."

Another witness said: "I was in the hairdresser's when a man ran out of a house
and slit this woman's throat.

"Two men rushed to help her and one got his hand cut in the scuffle.

"It seems he slashed the old woman's throat then plunged the knife into his
stomach.

Screaming

"The next thing I knew the place was crawling with police and paramedics."

A neighbour of the Majors, barman Jason Grant, 28, said: "Mark's always been a
bit of a nutter.

"You should have heard the screaming matches he had with his mother.

"I always felt sorry for her. She was only very small, about 4ft 9in.

"She never said much to anybody. I suppose she was embarrassed having him for a
son.

"He kept guns in the house and was once seen with one in the street.

"Everybody kept their distance from Mark."

Another neighbour, Jon Boland, 26, said: "I heard she didn't stand a chance.

"He used to get into rages. It sounds like this quarrel went too far.  He was a
real loner."

Forensic experts were at the scene of the crime at the family home in
Macclesfield, Cheshire, yesterday. But Inspector Jim Hopper said: "We are not
looking for anyone else in connection with this incident."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROBE: Police yesterday cordon off the crime scene

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              172 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            July 16, 1998, Thursday

Three Irish men and a woman charged with plotting to carry out terrorist bomb
attacks in London

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 102 words


Three Irish men and a woman charged with plotting to carry out terrorist bomb
attacks in London last Friday appeared in court yesterday amid tight security.

Darren Mulholland, 19, of Dundalk, Co Louth; Liam Patrick Grogan, 21, of Naas,
Co Kildare; Elaine Moore, 21, of Hampstead, northwest London; and Anthony
Hyland, 25, no address given; were charged with conspiracy to cause explosions
on or before July 10. Grogan, Moore and Hyland are also charged with possession
of explosive substances.

The four were remanded in custody until July 23 by Belmarsh Magistrates' Court
in southeast London.


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              173 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 July 16, 1998

HOLIDAY BRITONS IN RAPE TERROR;
 Florida in fear after attacks on couples

BYLINE: Sarah Harris

SECTION: Pg.1

LENGTH: 409 words


A BRITISH woman was brutally raped at gunpoint on the first day of a holiday in
Florida.

The attack happened hours after the woman and her husband checked into their
hotel in the booming tourist area close to Disney World.

American police believe she was the victim of a serial rapist who has struck at
least seven times in the past month.

Last night they urged visitors to be on their guard against the softly- spoken
gunman who has brought terror to the Sunshine State which attracts millions of
holidaymakers.

In each of the attacks, couples have been robbed at gunpoint before being forced
to strip and perform sex acts on each other.

Detectives say that in at least three cases, the woman was raped after her male
companion was forced into the bathroom.

The two British tourists were attacked on Monday night at their hotel in
Kissimmee. It was the second sex attack in the area in three days.

The couple, who are in their 20s and from Middlesex, requested a clothes iron
from the front desk and left their door ajar, expecting a hotel worker.

A police spokesman said: "A black male who had a gun, pushed open the door,
demanded their money and ordered them to strip and lie on the bed."

The rapist managed to accept the iron from a hotel employee without raising
suspicion, and his victims were kept out of sight in their room and silenced.

The man forced the couple to perform sex acts on each other for about half an
hour.

Shock

He then bundled the husband into the bathroom and raped the woman before
fleeing.

The couple are now recovering from shock and helping detectives build up a
profile of their attacker. It is not known when they will return to the Britain.

Early on Saturday, the same man is believed to have attacked a Massachusetts
couple in their room at the Park Inn International on U.S. Highway 192 in
Kissimmee.

He raped the woman and fled before his victims could raise the alarm.

Detectives had not initially linked the series of attacks, which are expected to
have a serious impact on tourism in the area.

The similarities were not apparent until police officers in neighbouring Osceola
and Orange counties began comparing cases after the latest attacks.

The two hotels are about three miles apart in the same tourist area east of Walt
Disney World.

The British couple are now staying at another Orlando hotel while helping police
with their inquiries.



LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              174 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 July 23, 1998

Mortar attack terror alert;
 Return of the feared 'barrack buster'

BYLINE: By Chris Thornton, Security Correspondent

LENGTH: 374 words


THE dissident republican bid to mortar bomb Newry's RUC station has confirmed a
major worry for the security forces the return of the 'barrack buster' bomb.

Although Tuesday's attack failed, the breakaway gang managed to launch a mark XV
mortar for the first time.

From its first appearance in 1992, the device has been recognised as one of the
most dangerous weapons developed by terrorist engineers.

The mortar carries enough punch to drop the equivalent of a small car bomb into
the centre of a security base. It has claimed one life. Construction worker
Nigel McCollum died in March 1992, when the provisional IRA attacked Keady's RUC
station.

But security chiefs have always feared the mark XV could cause carnage because
it can pierce base defences.

The dissident IRA a group of former provos who consider themselves 'the real
IRA' carried out Tuesday's attack.

With up to 100 provo defectors opposed to the ceasefire in their ranks, the
group has carried with it much of the provo's know-how for improvising weapons.

They are clearly missing some of the expertise need to fine tune mortars several
smaller mortars have mis-fired and Tuesday's 200lb bomb only travelled 12 feet
from its launch pad.

The dissidents first attempted to use the barrack buster two months ago in an
attack on a security base at Kinawley, in Fermanagh. The device was abandoned
before being fired. But Tuesday's attack moved the gang one step closer to a
devastating blast at a security base.

The re-emergence of the mark XV is likely to cause a review of defensive
procedures around security bases, especially along the border.

After 1985, when smaller mortars killed nine RUC officers at the same Newry
station targetted on Tuesday, security bases were fitted with high fences and
other measures.

The move cut down on the deadly effects of mortar attacks, so the IRA went back
to the drawing board. By 1992, they had come up with the mark XV.

The barrack buster got around the defences by firing heavy bombs capable of
travelling over or punching through some of those measures.

It quickly became the Provos' favourite weapon along the border, and was used in
around 40 attacks before the 1994 ceasefire.


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              175 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             July 26, 1998, Sunday

BOMB TERROR AS FAMILY FLEE ARSON ATTACK;
 POLICE PROBING ARSON ATTACK FIND HOME-MADE BOMB

BYLINE: Fiona May

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 203 words


COPS probing an arson attack on a family found a home-made bomb hours after they
cheated death in the inferno.

Thirty people living nearby were evacuated while Army experts defused the
device.

Last night police launched a major investigation into the terror blaze.

Peter and Karen Addis, both 42, and their eight-year-old daughter Charlotte
leapt to safety from a first-floor window at 4am as flames swept through their
home at Willenhall, West Midlands.

They were treated in hospital for burns and smoke inhalation. Mr Addis also
suffered cuts.

The attacker is believed to have torched the building with petrol. Police and
firemen later discovered the crude incendiary bomb hidden beneath rubbish under
the front window.

A thunderflash like the ones used in Army training exercises was wired up to
batteries.

Fire chief Peter Pinney said: "The blaze was started deliberately. An
accelerant, believed to be petrol, was used.

"The device was discovered by firefighters as they investigated the cause of the
blaze. We withdrew immediately and bomb disposal experts were contacted."

Neighbour John Mannion, 50, said: "I can't believe it. You expect this in
Belfast, but not here."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              176 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             July 26, 1998, Sunday

SHOP MUM IN LIGHTER FUEL TERROR;
 MOTHER AND CHILDREN ATTACKED WITH LIGHTER FUEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 96 words


A TEENAGE gang terrified a mother and her two young children by spraying them
with lighter fuel.

The three youths, earlier seen sniffing the fuel, struck as the family was
walking through an underpass towards a shopping centre in Swindon, Wilts.

Security guards, who had saw the attack on CCTV, rushed to the site and caught
two of the youths.

The third escaped before police arrived.

Officers were yesterday appealing for the mum, who disappeared after the
incident, to come forward.

Two youths - both aged 15 - were arrested and released on bail.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              177 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 July 28, 1998

Burger attack terror

SECTION: Pg.1

LENGTH: 141 words


A MUM was left battered and bruised after a row in a Plymouth burger bar.

Ann Holland was buying her 12-year-old son Simon a cheeseburger at McDonald's in
New George Street when she was allegedly attacked by another customer.

The shocked mum of two suffered a bruised cheek after the other woman slapped
her across the face yesterday lunchtime.

Mrs Holland, 34, of Danum Drive, Plympton, said: "We were in the queue and it
was taking a while so I told Simon to go in the other queue to see who could get
served first.

"This lady with two little boys and an older boy pushed right in. When the girl
behind the counter asked who was next I said I was."

The other woman then turned on Mrs Holland shoving her, shouting verbal abuse
and even spat at her.

"She pushed me out on to the floor, verbally abusing me.

- Turn to Page Two

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ATTACK MISERY: Ann Holland and son SimonPicture Guy Channing DE58422

                         Copyright 1998 Evening Herald

                              178 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 July 28, 1998

Knifeman in terror attack on teenager

SECTION: Pg.13

LENGTH: 121 words


A TEENAGER has been held up at knifepoint and had his arm broken in a row over
sand being kicked at a car.

The 19-year-old was outside Miss Millies in Wells Road, Knowle, in Bristol, with
friends when the attacker struck.

The group had been throwing sand at each other and the man claimed some had
landed on his car. He punched, kicked and stamped on the teenager - breaking his
arm - and demanded cash.

The young man handed over all he had, but his attacker then produced a knife and
forced to him withdraw money from a nearby cashpoint.

The robber was black, in his early 20s, 6ft 3ins tall with a shaved head and was
wearing a a long, light brown waistcoat, a dark Adidas T-shirt and a baseball
cap.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              179 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                             August 2, 1998, Sunday

WINGED TERROR;
Northumberland builders under attack by birds

SECTION: Page 7

LENGTH: 36 words


Builders working to restore a 15th- century tower on the Farne Islands off the
Northumberland coast have been under attack from birds.

They have been dive-bombed by terns so often that they now wear hard hats.


LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1998 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              180 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 August 4, 1998

Police in gun attack;
 Upsurge in terror causing concern

BYLINE: By Chris Thronton, Security Correspondent

LENGTH: 1037 words


LOYALIST politicians warned of increasing concern over escalating republican
violence today after RUC officers came under gun attack from suspected IRA
dissidents.

Up to seven shots were fired in the Lurgan attack, which happened shortly before
midnight.

A gunman opened fire from a hijacked Fiat Punto as a police car was driving out
of the town's RUC station.

One round struck a security camera, but the police vehicle was not hit and there
were no injuries.

A RUC spokesman said the police patrol was believed to be the target of the
attack.

Security sources said the attack has heightened concerns about leading
republicans in the area defecting from the Provisional IRA to an anti -ceasefire
dissident group.

Lurgan republicans have been associated with several gun attacks since the IRA
declared a renewed ceasefire late last year.

The car used in last night's attack, a black Punto with the registration ALZ
3768, was hijacked in Lavery Avenue in the nationalist Kilwilkie estate.

The gunmen are believed to have escaped towards the same estate after the
shooting.

The Ulster Democratic Party, which is associated with the UDA, said there were
serious "loyalist concerns over the escalation in republican terrorist
activity".

"The campaign of aggression being mounted against the community by republican
groups poses a danger to the prospects for peace, and it is vital that the
security forces deal with this threat fully and swiftly," UDP leader Gary
McMichael said.

Mr McMichael and a UDP delegation were due to discuss their worries with
Secretary of State Mo Mowlam today.

Workers Party president Tom French said the gunmen were "criminals trying to
destroy the peace process and plunge Northern Ireland back into the nightmare
days of violence".

Last night's shooting happened just yards from where two RUC constables were
murdered by the Provisional IRA in June last year.

Constables David Johnston and John Graham were on foot patrol in Church Walk,
which runs alongside the police station, when they were shot by two gunmen.

The killings came as the IRA was preparing for their present ceasefire, and
threw dark questions over republican commitment to the peace process.


LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              181 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 August 4, 1998

Super-wasp attack;
Pupils flee as swarm brings terror on a school trip

BYLINE: David Derbyshire

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 991 words


SEVEN children were taken to hospital after their school nature ramble was
attacked by a swarm of huge wasps.

A further 18 required treatment for stings. They were among more than 150
terrified youngsters who ran screaming to safety chased by hundreds of the
insects, thought to be part of the army of 'Eurowasps' invading Britain.

The wasps attacked as the children, aged eight to 16, walked in woods near their
summer camp at Wymondham College, Norfolk.

They were forced to flee 300 yards to safety to the school's refectory.

'It was a frightening experience for them,' said Rob Anders, director of the
London charity which organised the camp for children with special needs.

'They were just out for a walk to get some fresh air.

'It is possible that someone

might have accidentally disturbed the wasps' nest. A couple of the kids got
stung a number of times after getting wasps stuck in their clothes.

'But the main problem was the hysteria and panic of the children, rather than
the stings.' Six ambulances were called to the school after the incident on
Saturday.

Seven children were taken to the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital suffering from
shock and repeated stings.

PC Graeme Kynoch of Wymondham police said: 'A lot of the children were quite
disturbed by what happened.

'One young girl who had to be taken to hospital was hyperventilating after being
stung.' There were also fears that some of the victims could suffer a
potentially serious allergic reaction to the venom. All were later allowed to
return to the camp. Mr Anders, 23, went with police to search the scene of the
attack but found no sign of a nest.

'We thought it might have been European wasps because they are more vicious than
the English variety,' he said.

The Eurowasp - or median wasp - is twice the size of the domestic variety and
has a more powerful sting.

Experts warned yesterday that it is now common in the South and East Anglia.

They urged people to leave them well alone.

Although the Eurowasps only attack when threatened, they build their nests near
humans, in trees or on walls.

That means they are more likely to be disturbed by gardeners, pets and children
than domestic wasps, which nest in attics and eaves.

Since they first appeared on the South Coast in the mid-Eighties, Eurowasps have
slowly colonised much of England, encouraged by mild winters and warmer than
average summers. In East Anglia, they have been seen in larger numbers than
previously in recent months.

Their sting is acutely painful for 20 minutes, causing swelling and soreness
which lasts all day.

People allergic to the venom can suffer anaphylactic shock.

In rare cases, a sting can kill in 25 minutes.

* A couple and their three children aged seven to ten were treated in hospital
yesterday after being stung up to 14 times each by a huge swarm of wasps. Their
two dogs were also stung in the attack while the family were walking near their
home in Hedgerley, Buckinghamshire.

Environmental health officers were sent to the scene in a bid to control the
swarm before it could attack again.

THE VICIOUS VISITOR

THE median wasp dolichovespula media is up to 1.25in long, twice as big as the
common wasp. Only the hornet is bigger. Every sting injects a tiny amount of
venom containing 100 active chemicals.

Unlike the bumble bee, a wasp can sting repeatedly.

Median wasps forage for up to two miles from the nest for caterpillars, insects
and nectar. They are wary of dark, moving objects and sensitive to movement in
the nest. They build their camouflaged football-sized nests in trees and on
walls.

Although Eurowasp colonies are smaller than domestic ones, with around 300 in
each nest, they have earned a reputation as aggressive creatures. Only the
queens survive the first frosts of autumn, hibernating in houses, in compost
heaps or underneath bark.

Eurowasps' first appearance in Britain was on beaches at Brighton in the
mid-Eighties.

They arrived from Belgium or France, either by flying over the Channel or on
ferries. They have reached Cornwall and Yorkshire, and are moving north.

Why humble bees are man's most deadly foe

THEY are feared the world over as nature's born killers.

But the lion, the cobra and the black widow spider trail in the wake of man's
deadliest natural enemy - the bee.

Every year, the insect is responsible for at least 5,000 deaths around the
world, more than the combined toll from attacks by sharks, lions and crocodiles,
a study shows. Only humans kill more people.

Bee stings are usually just a painful nuisance but trigger potentially fatal
allergic reactions in one person in 200.

In Britain, six to nine people a year die from bee and wasp stings.

In warmer countries, where more time is spent outside and where medicines can be
scarcer, the number is far higher.

Up to 75 shark attacks are reported worldwide each year but only about 25 are
fatal.

Crocodiles account for fewer than 2,000 victims, according to the research in
Maxim magazine.

Snakes kill an estimated 35,000 but single species - such as the rattlesnake or
king cobra - claim only a few hundred lives each.

Lions and tigers maul a mere handful of victims. Surprisingly, the most lethal
mammal in Africa is the hippopotamus.

Richard Jones, director of the International Bee Research Institute in Cardiff,
said the number of bee deaths was high because the world's bee population was
relatively large.

'It is important not to scaremonger because bees are extremely useful,' he said.

'Without bees, supermarkets would be empty. Eighty per cent of the items on
their shelves are pollinated by bees.

'They will only attack if you are doing something silly like standing in front
of the hive or annoying them.

'If you flap around, they release a pheromone that attracts other bees and tells
them they are under threat.'


LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              182 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                                 August 4, 1998

Playtime terror as stray dog attacks
 Boy, 7, treated for bites

BYLINE: By Anne Lightfoot, News Reporter

SECTION: Animals: Complaints, Pg.5

LENGTH: 228 words


LITTLE Luke Jackson was today being treated for bites to his legs, arms and back
after being savaged by a German Shepherd dog on the eve of his birthday.

The seven-year-old of Plym Grove, Longhill Estate, Hull, was playing out in a
nearby street when he was attacked by the dog which was apparently wandering
loose.

His grandfather, Mr Ronald Frankland, 76, who lives in the same street, said:
"Luke was crying his eyes out when his friends brought him home. He had bites to
his buttocks, thighs and back. His lip was burst open and he also cut himself
when he fell down.

"The bite marks had punctured the skin and drawn blood but had not torn pieces
out. He was worried in case he had to be in hospital for his eighth birthday
tomorrow."

A neighbour called an ambulance to take Luke to Hull Royal Infirmary,
accompanied by his mother Sue, 44, who has three older children.

Luke was playing with his friend in nearby Bickleigh Close when he was attacked
about 10am.

His friend found the dog roaming loose and decided to take it for a walk. During
their wanderings the pet attacked for no known reason.

"It was a big German Shepherd running loose. I believe it lives in the area,"
said Mr Frankland.

Police have been told of the incident and were expected to talk to Luke about
what happened when he gets home from hospital, which was likely to be today.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: INJURED: Luke Jackson

                         Copyright 1998 Hull Daily Mail

                              183 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 August 7, 1998

US stunned by bomb attacks
 Dozens die in terror blasts at two embassies

SECTION: Pg.23

LENGTH: 474 words


DOZENS of people have been killed and hundreds injured in what appear to be
co-ordinated bomb attacks on two US embassies in East Africa today.

Hundreds of people were injured by an explosion which toppled a seven-storey
building onto the embassy in the heart of Nairobi, the Kenyan capital.

The force of the blast ripped bomb proof doors from the embassy and the US
ambassador was carried out of an adjacent building on a stretcher.

Minutes later a car bomb exploded outside the US embassy in Dar es Salaam,
capital of neighbouring Tanzania.

Five people, including two white men, are reported to have been killed in that
attack and 54 injured.

No group had claimed responsibility by noon today.

"It was definitely a bomb," said a US Embassy official in Nairobi. "You can see
a huge crater behind the building, and a bomb went off at the embassy in
Tanzania at the same time," he said.

An unknown number of foreigners were hurt in the Nairobi explosion which toppled
the seven storey Ufundi Cooperative building next to the embassy.

A Nairobi TV station said that Prudence Bushnell, US ambassador to Kenya, was
among the injured. She had just finished addressing a press conference in the
cooperative building and was carried away on a stretcher with blood on her face.

Two commuter buses also took the force of the blast and many were injured on
board the packed vehicles at 10: 35 am (0835 BST).

Dozens of other vehicles were wrecked in the Nairobi blast and a plume of black
smoke shot into the sky.

A spokeswoman at the Foreign Office said: "The British High Commission in
Nairobi is only half a mile away, so it is certainly close enough to rattle the
windows, but as far as we know there is no damage to the building or to anyone
inside.

There were unconfirmed reports of other attacks in Uganda and Sudan, later
discounted.

Dozens of people inside and outside the Nairobi cooperative building, which
houses some government offices, were killed, witnesses said.

Hundreds were sprawled screaming on the sidewalk with bloody wounds.

US marines used bomb proof doors that had been blown off the embassy as
stretchers.

Ambulances and police rushed to the chaotic scene, and rescuers searched the
rubble for survivors.

US embassy officials in Nairobi confirmed the ambassadoer was slightly injured.

Ten of the dead in Nairobi are reported to have been on commuter buses that
caught the force of the blast PA.

Witnesses in Dar es Salaam said at least nine people were killed.

Nearly two-thirds of the embassy was destroyed, witnesses said. Cranes were
hurried to the site to tear apart wreckage in the search for survivors.

Bodies littered the street near the Nairobi embassy and hospitals appeals for
doctors top treat the many injured.

It was definitely a bomb.You can see a huge crater behind the building.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: AFTERMATH: The scene of the explosion this morning in Nairobi and,
right, a map of the affected areas

                         Copyright 1998 Evening Herald

                              184 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            August 10, 1998, Monday

MUM'S SYRINGE ATTACK TERROR;
Police hunt the thug who threatened a woman and her two children with a syringe
in Govanhill

SECTION: Page 13

LENGTH: 59 words


A thug who subjected a mother and her two young sons to a horror attack after
waving a syringe in their faces was last night being hunted by police.

The man in his 20s jumped into their car at the Somerfield store in Govanhill,
Glasgow, on Saturday, then forced the woman to drive to a nearby street and took
her jewellery and money before fleeing.


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1998 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              185 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           August 12, 1998, Wednesday

TERRORIST LEADER SAYS ATTACK WAS SELF-DEFENCE

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 584 words


The spiritual leader of the radical Islamic group Hamas said he does not know
who was behind the bombing of two US embassies, but added that whoever was
responsible acted in "self-defence".

"America has placed itself by the side of Israel against the Arab and Muslim
world," Sheik Ahmed Yassin said in an interview. "So it should be no surprise
when people seek revenge against this unjust American policy."

Asked about the bombings, the 62-year-old sheik said: "I consider what happened
self-defence by someone who was seeking revenge for the injustice of American
policy and the destruction it has brought on their country."

There has been no claim of responsibility in the attacks, but Israeli and US
officials have said they were looking into possible involvement by exiled
Islamic militant and Saudi financier Osama bin Laden.

Yassin said Hamas knew nothing of the bombers' identity.

"We have no information if bin Laden stands or does not stand behind these
bombings," he said. "We have nothing to do with Osama... he is not in our
country."

The sheik scoffed at US investigators, saying: "American intelligence is deluded
- they do not know who their enemy is." However, he explicitly denied any Hamas
involvement in the attacks.

"We are not willing to open fire on America," he said. "Our battle is on the
land of Palestine and we will not take it outside ... because it does not serve
our cause or our people."

Hamas is an implacable opponent of the Oslo peace accords and demands the
handover of all Israel to the Palestinians.

Mr Yassin, who was freed from an Israeli prison nearly a year ago, returned to
Gaza in June after a three-and-a-half month fundraising tour in the Middle East.
During the trip, he called repeatedly for a return to the armed struggle against
Israel.

The last suicide bombing in Israel was nearly a year ago. Mr Yassin said Hamas
has not carried out any attacks lately, not because of any ideological change,
but "due to circumstances in the field... the fighters are facing."

"This is because the Israeli, Palestinian and American intelligence are all
working together against the activities of our sons," Mr Yassin said.  Hamas, he
said, "will continue its jihad...It had not laid down its weapons".

Jonesboro massacre trial begins

Mitchell Johnson was 14 yesterday. There was no party planned.

Instead, he and 12-year-old Andrew Golden appeared in an Arkansas juvenile court
to face trial on charges they gunned down four classmates and a teacher in what
became known as the Jonesboro school massacre.

Another teacher and nine additional students were wounded in March when they
were lured from the building by a false fire alarm and ambushed.

More than 100 of the victims' relatives and school staff have reserved court
seats to watch the boys' hearing, which is the equivalent of an adult trial.

If the two are found guilty of being juvenile delinquents, the maximum sentence
would keep them in a juvenile facility until they reach 21. They are too young
to be charged as adults.

Craighead County Judge Ralph Wilson could also place them on probation, order
community service and make their parents pay fines and court costs.

Juvenile hearings are usually closed to the public in Arkansas, but Judge Wilson
opened the trial because of intense public interest.

He also twice delayed trial while public defenders explored whether they could
use some form of mental incompetency plea for Golden.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              186 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                August 14, 1998

Woman in sex attack terror

LENGTH: 239 words


A SEX attacker subjected a woman to a terrifying assault after pouncing on her
as she walked through Bath.

The 27-year-old local woman was walking along Newbridge Road in the early hours
of yesterday morning when she was grabbed from behind and dragged to the ground.

Her attacker then seriously sexually assaulted her as she lay screaming for
help.

The assault took place at about 3.30am near the Sportsman pub. Police believe
the attacker could have been trailing his victim as she walked from the city
centre.

Avon and Somerset Police spokesman P-c Nick Shaw said the woman was extremely
traumatised by the assault, but had been able to give detectives a good
description of the man who attacked her.

Nasty

P-c Shaw said: "This was a really nasty assault and we are appealing for anyone
with any information to come forward."

The attacker is described as a heavy smoker, aged between 26 and 28, dark
skinned and of Mediterranean appearance. He spoke with a Mediterranean accent.

He was about 5ft 7ins tall and of a stocky build with a round, clean- shaven
face and black, straight collar-length hair.

Detectives are eager to speak to anyone who may have been in Newbridge Road at
the time of the attack or who heard the woman screaming.

They say someone may have seen the woman being followed from the city centre.

Anyone with any information should call Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              187 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                August 18, 1998

mum's fear at wasps frenzy
 Day out in park turns to terror as family attacked by angry swarm

BYLINE: By Paul Turner

SECTION: Animals: INSECTS, Pg.1

LENGTH: 259 words


A MOTHER thought her family was going to be stung to death when they were chased
by thousands of angry wasps.

Nicola Brock was enjoying a day out at Gnoll Park in Neath when her nephew Liam
Grancourt, aged five, disturbed a nest of wasps on a tree.

As Michael and Nicola's son Darren ran away screaming, thousands of wasps flew
from the tree and chased the family to their car.

"I thought I was going to die. I didn't think we would ever get out of there,
they just wouldn't leave us alone," said Mrs Brock, aged 34, of Fairyland,
Neath.

"I was screaming at the kids 'run, run, run to the car', but the wasps were
chasing us and they came inside the car, it was terrible."

She believes she was stung between 10 and 12 times, along with her husband
Michael, aged 38, while her children were stung all over their bodies.

Michael Brock said the scene was like something out of a horror film.

"We were just having a drink by the pond when they attacked us," said Mr Brock.

"There were thousands of them all stuck to the tree. I could see more wasps than
wood."

He took everyone to hospital where they were given medication to treat the
stings.

The attack comes just days after a group of children were set upon by a swarm of
wasps in a Morriston play area.

The attack led to calls for all play areas and parks to be checked for wasps'
nests and this has been backed by Mrs Brock.

"Gnoll Park is a well known attraction for young children. I have five,
including a two-year-old and I just thank God that the rest of them weren't with
me."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 South Wales Evening Post

                              188 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           August 19, 1998, Wednesday

MASSACRE AT OMAGH: AFTER THE TERROR - THE HILLSIDE OF DEATH;
 EVIL KILLERS REHEARSED WITH BOMB;
 OMAGH BOMBING: TERRORISTS REHEARSED ATTACK WITH PRACTICE BOMB

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards Chief Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14, 15

LENGTH: 656 words


TERRORISTS who devastated Omagh rehearsed their deadly attack with a huge
practice bomb on a remote hillside.

The device, containing about 500lbs of explosives, was set off nine days before
Saturday's atrocity.

The killers hid it in a boggy depression 2,000ft up a lonely cattle track just
yards inside the Northern Ireland border.

One Gardai source said yesterday: "There were clear indications this was a test
- perhaps an experiment to gauge the effects of a particular device."

The practice bomb was packed in a large gas cylinder and detonated with a
battery-powered command wire from a rocky ridge 150 yards away. The wire and
batteries were left at the scene.

I visited the scene of the explosion yesterday and stood in the 30ft wide by 5ft
deep crater left behind.

For 50 yards or more the purple heather and yellow gorse was scorched by the
flash from the detonation.

Huge rocks, one weighing at least a ton, had been hurled through the air and
embedded themselves in soft ground.

Stout wooden fence posts marking the border with the Irish Republic were
splintered and flattened by the shockwaves.

And scattered around the undergrowth were pieces of hideous-looking jagged
shrapnel.

On my way back down I found one chunk of metal, as big as a cigarette packet,
that had been flung 200 yards.

The bomb went off at 9.35pm and was heard for miles around. But it wasn't until
the next day that a British Army helicopter crew pinpointed the scene. Forensic
experts took away soil samples which are undergoing tests. Police also
discovered a series of white wooden stakes had been placed in the ground at
carefully measured intervals nearby.

They believe the bombers were trying to gauge how far the blast would travel.

Security insiders believe the device was built in stages and carried to the
Cooley Mountains near Omeath, Co Tyrone, by three or four men.

The explosives were probably taken up later in rucksacks by members of the group
disguised as hikers.

The spot, in a shallow gully, had been carefully chosen to avoid a chain of
fortified Army observation posts dotted along the mountain range.

From these lookout posts soldiers using high-powered binoculars and night sights
can see suspicious cross-border activity from up to 10 miles away. The bomb team
clearly knew what they were doing.

The explosives-packed gas cylinder had been placed about a mile from where Sinn
Fein leader Gerry Adams often uses a summer cottage.

After setting it off and measuring its effects, the terrorists escaped over the
border on powerful off-road motorbikes.

Security insiders believe the practice bomb and the Omagh device were made by
the same Real IRA cell living openly in the nearby County Louth town of Dundalk.
Garda sources say they know of about 35 Republican renegades living there.

And the car used in the Omagh attack was stolen from the neighbouring County
Monaghan town of Carrickmacross.

One detective said: "We know who all these people are and we are gathering
intelligence on them all the time.

"Some of them are the most experienced and hardened terrorists in the world.

"If we can get evidence proving they were involved we will arrest them but they
are very careful and very cautious. They are tough opponents."

Police are hampered in their search by millions of acres of remote farmland
which is criss-crossed by scores of unmarked lanes and tracks.

The area is dotted with abandoned farmhouses, barns and animal sheds which are
ideal for IRA killers to stash their arms.

Many of these arsenals have now fallen into the hands of dissident RIRA members
who have sworn to wreck the Northern Ireland peace process.

The fact that they have enough explosives to carry out a practice attack is
cause for great concern.

One RUC source admitted: "They may have got their hands on far more explosives
than we originally thought."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JAGGED: Shrapnel from the bomb's gas cylinder casing;; HORROR:
Mirrorman Jeff Edwards stands in the 30ft wide crater yesterday which was left
by the test bomb Picture: ARNIE SLATER

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              189 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           August 20, 1998, Thursday

COUPLE TIE UP MAN, AGED 82, IN TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 506 words


A couple subjected an 82-year-old man to a frightening ordeal in his Birmingham
home, police said yesterday.

They attacked the victim as he stood outside his house in Vicarage Road, Kings
Heath. They hauled him inside and tied up his arms and legs.

Then, as he lay helpless, the pair searched rooms looking for cash and valuables
on Tuesday night.

Detectives said it was believed the couple, who were Asian and in their 20s, had
struck twice in Selly Park on Sunday.

Battle for playgrounds won

Children in The Avenues area of Brownhills will benefit from four new play
areas.

Plans to build the new playgrounds were agreed by members of the Brownhills area
planning committee despite letters of objection from some residents.

The plans will see a new soft-surfaced toddlers' playground, a picnic and play
area, a Tarmac-surfaced ball court and a children's roller skating area built.

Residents opposing the plans said the play areas would encourage more children
onto the estate, take up parking areas, and increase noise and nuisance.

'Tug 'o war' bag snatch

A 61-year-old Dudley woman fell to the ground during a "tug o' war" handbag
snatch.

She was walking in the Russells Hall Road area of the town when a man tried to
grab her shoulder bag.

Sgt Maxine Brettell, of Dudley crime bureau, said: "She hung onto the bag while
the attacker was also tugging it. When she let go, she fell to the ground, but
was unhurt."

The raider escaped with the bag which contained pounds 8 cash and a pair of
pounds 100 spectacles.

Gas cooker singes hair

A woman, aged 92, was burnt when a burner on her gas cooker flared up in her
face at her home in Perry Barr.

Mrs Elizabeth Groves, of Phoenix Rise, had her hair singed. Leading fireman
Howard Simpson, of West Bromwich fire station, said that Mrs Groves had been
trying to light the stove using an ignition button.

"For some reason the gas did not ignite immediately and there was a small
build-up of gas which flared up in her face."

Strong hopes for diocese

Churches in the Lichfield diocese have a bright future according to a clergyman
who has held a top job in the area for almost 25 years.

The Venerable Richard Ninis has just retired after being Archdeacon of Lichfield
since 1974.

In a farewell message in Link, the newsletter of the Lichfield diocese, he said:
"I know that the diocese is well set for a lively and developing future. I am
only disappointed that we shan't be here for the new start of the Millennium."

ps Post Script

Plans to set an historic Black Country clock chiming again after a break of ten
years have been boosted thanks to a council grant.

Members of St Michael's Church on Pelsall Common need to raise more than pounds
3,000 for a specialist clock repairer to fix the west tower clock and striking
chain which have been out of order for many years.

The church at the junction of Vicarage Road and Church Road dates back to 1843
and it is believed the clock was added in 1875.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              190 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      August 20, 1998, Thursday Edition 1

BUS MAN IN JAB NIGHTMARE - Police hunt drug thugs after syringe attack terror

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 368 words


   A BRAVE young man who tried to stop two thugs using drugs on a bus was rushed
to hospital after a hypodermic needle was plunged into his stomach.

The victim, who is in his 20s, now faces a nightmare series of tests to discover
if he has contracted any infections. He has since had counselling.

Police say he smelled cannabis and challenged two men thought to have been
smoking as the bus pulled up at the stop outside Holy Saviour's Church in
Tynemouth Broadway.

One of the passengers pulled out a syringe and lunged at the victim sinking the
needle into his stomach. He was taken to Newcastle Royal Victoria Infirmary for
treatment.

But he now faces an anxious wait for the results of blood tests for Aids and
other potentially lethal illnesses.

Police at Tynemouth area command today issued this computer image of the
attacker and asked for help to track him and his accomplice on the 306 Arriva
bus.

Det Insp Graham Davies said today: "Doctors treated the victim and released him,
but the unknown element of what may have been in that syringe makes this a
serious and worrying

crime.

"We would ask anyone who may have travelled on that bus route from Newcastle to
Tynemouth on Wednesday and may have seen the men to get in touch with us.

"The attack took place at 7.25pm, when the bus pulled in at the stop in
Tynemouth.

"Someone may know the attacker or the man with him. We want to hear from anyone
who may have been at the bus stop when they got off or heard anyone talking
about the attack."

The men, aged between 16 and 18, got on the bus at Battle Hill, Wallsend, at the
stop near the Battle Hill Drive and Bristol Drive junction. They bought 25p
tickets and they were the last passengers on the bus with the victim at
Tynemouth.

Police say the attacker was 6ft, slim, with dark hair and had a gold hooped
earring in his left ear. He wore a black Nike round necked sweatshirt with a
white tick logo on the chest. The other was 16 or 17, 5ft 10in, with short
cropped brown hair and wearing a blue and purple striped sports top.

Anyone with information about the men or who was on the bus that night should
contact North Shields CID on [0191] 214 6555.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SYRINGE HORROR - the scene of the stabbing, and a photo image of the
attacker

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              191 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                August 21, 1998

America bombs terror targets
 Cruise missile attacks launched

SECTION: Supplement: Daily News, Pg.21

LENGTH: 331 words


AMERICAN forces launched cruise missile strikes against alleged terrorist camps
in Afghanistan and a chemical plant in Sudan, in a retaliatory move 13 days
after the deadly embassy bombings in East Africa.

"Our target was terror," President Bill Clinton said last night.

In an address from the Oval Office after interrupting his vacation to return to
Washington, Mr Clinton said he acted to "counter an immediate threat" of more
terrorist acts.

"Let our actions today send this message loud and clear: there are no expendable
American targets. There will be no sanctuary for terrorists," he added.

He said the attacks' timing was based on US Intelligence that a "gathering of
key terrorist leaders" was planned yesterday at the site in Afghanistan, which
he called "one of the most active terrorist bases in the world".

Mr Clinton said the facilities attacked were linked to Osama bin Laden, a Saudi
millionaire whom the President called the "pre-eminent organiser and financier
of international terrorism in the world today". He said groups affiliated with
bin Laden were behind the August 7 bombings of the US embassies in Kenya and
Tanzania that killed more than 200 people, including 12 Americans.

According to a spokesman for Afghanistan's Taliban rulers, bin Laden was
unharmed in the attack.

In neighbouring Pakistan, sources said today that the missiles killed at least
eight people in Afghanistan.

The Pakistani news agency NNI, quoting the Harkat-ul-Mujahedeen group, said five
Pakistanis were killed in a strike on a training camp near Khost, about 90 miles
south of Kabul.

Harkat-ul -Mujahedeen, formally known as Harkat-ul-Ansar, was included last year
on the US State Department's list of terrorist groups.

Maulvi Sadre Azam, the Taliban deputy governor of Nangarhar province, said three
other people were killed in strikes near Jalalabad, about 60 miles east of
Kabul.

The news agency had few details, and the reports could not be immediately
confirmed.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1998 Evening Herald

                              192 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                August 21, 1998

Five years for sex attacker
 LIFT HOME FROM CLUB LED TO TERROR FOR MUM

SECTION: Crime: indecent assault, Pg.2

LENGTH: 431 words


AN IMMINGHAM man who claimed the woman he indecently assaulted and imprisoned
against her will "made the whole story up to save her marriage" was handed a
five-year jail sentence at Grimsby Crown Court.

Kevin Boyle (40), of Humberville Road, was found guilty of both charges by a
unanimous jury who heard how he took a Keelby mother to his house and kept her
there as he indecently assaulted her after she accepted a lift home.

The 25-year-old woman, who cannot be named for legal reasons, had gone out for
the night with her half-sister and two friends.

They eventually made their way to the Park Lane nightclub, Cleethor-pes, and met
Boyle between Schuberts and the club.

Prosecuting, Peter Waumsley told how they began talking, danced inside, and
later went for a pizza as a group.

Mr Waumsley said: "She is naturally friendly, outgoing, even flirtatious in her
manner, but this does not mean to say she was out to get a man, and would want
to have some intimate relationship with the defendant."

Speaking about the car journey, the woman said: "We approached the Keelby
turn-off, he didn't slow down and didn't turn off. He said he knew another way.

"I was quite frightened at this point and he said he would take me to his house
to have a cup of tea then take me home."

Once she had been forced into the house, he touched her hair, pulled her on to
the bed and sexually assaulted her.

She then escaped to the safety of another house when Boyle, who operated a
mobile snack bar in the Victoria Street area of Grimsby, went for a smoke
afterwards.

Defending, David Farrel claimed that these were lies and that the woman had
"played the role of the temptress", failing to tell Boyle she was married.

During cross-examination in the four -day trial, he said: "I put it to you that
you told him you lived with your parents, and as long as you got home before
they got up, it would be all right."

He added: "You knew if you got back much later than 5am, there was a risk that
your husband could wake up and find you missing."

Boyle, who has several convictions for violence and dishonesty, and had only
been released from a 14-year sentence in 1994, declared his version of events in
the early hours of Christmas Eve as "a truthful account".

Judge Richard Jenkins said that although the sexual assault was quite minor, the
circumstances in which it occurred were very serious.

Speaking to Boyle, who will have to register as a sex offender with the police
on his release, he added: "The offence involved quite a sinister and deliberate
humiliation of your victim."

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              193 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 21, 1998, Friday

Are these bombings a cynical stunt by an embattled President?; Americans have
been crying out for terrorists to be punished. They will applaud these attacks

BYLINE: Gavin Esler

SECTION: COMMENT; Page 3

LENGTH: 951 words


IN THE Hollywood movie Wag the Dog, an American president embroiled in scandals
back home starts a neat little war abroad as a distraction.  He wraps himself in
the stars and stripes and reminds the United States and the rest of the world
that, flawed he may be, but it is his finger on the buttons that could
incinerate us all. Patriotism proves the last refuge of a scoundrel.

Now fast forward to real life. An American president embroiled in a domestic
scandal orders the most powerful military machine in history to attack what he
says are terrorist bases or facilities in Afghanistan and Sudan.  This happens
on the very day the woman at the centre of his sex scandal is appearing yet
again before a Grand Jury. Is this Washington political life emulating Hollywood
art? And will a sceptical America, which knew Bill Clinton was lying to them
over the Lewinsky affair, assume it to be an outrageous and cynical stunt by the
devious president his enemies call "Slick Willie"?

I doubt it. The bombings and murder of American personnel in Kenya and Tanzania
were no Hollywood screenplay. America's dead are all too real, and so is
American anger at being the target for Islamic fundamentalism.  And there is a
sense of a real and present danger, threatening American interests and lives as
the vultures circle over what they hope might be the carcass of the Clinton
presidency.

Saddam Hussein is one American enemy who clearly scents Bill Clinton's weakness.
Yesterday, Iraq promised no further cooperation with the United Nations Security
Council over weapons inspections, and linked American "lies" about Iraq to
"lies" about Monica Lewinsky. "The American authorities appear to have become
professional liars," an official Iraqi statement said. "The proof being the
admission by their president that he lied to his people."

The newspaper owned by Saddam Hussein's son Uday, Babel, put the politics more
bluntly: "How will Clinton direct US foreign policy after this scandal?  . . .
Will he be even more aggressive towards Iraq to please the Republicans in
Congress in the hope that it will stop their efforts to get rid of him?"

The Iraqis are right about one thing. On Capitol Hill, Republican politicians
have been deeply concerned by the foreign policy implications of the Lewinsky
scandal. Look around the world from Washington and you see enough to make
Congressmen and State Department diplomats lose a lot of sleep. Japan is feeble,
the Asian Tigers are volatile, there is the possibility of a world economic
slump, plus a sick Boris Yeltsin leading a sick Russia - and those are just
America's difficult friends.

When you get to the awkward squad it looks even worse. There is the prospect of
the collapse of the Middle East peace process, the continuing defiance by Saddam
Hussein, the failure to punish the bombers of the US barracks in Saudi Arabia
and the well financed attacks on Americans in Africa, plus the prospect of more
terrorism in Pakistan and elsewhere.

When members of Congress think of a demoralised Clinton administration they
shudder at the prospect of the only superpower becoming a pitiful helpless giant
at the mercy of determined Lilliputian enemies. They know it is difficult for
any American president to be strong abroad if he is weak at home. But even those
politicians extremely hostile to the Clinton administration and disgusted by his
conduct in the Lewinsky affair continue to repeat the old political cliche:
American domestic politics must stop at the water's edge.

I asked a number of Republican Congressmen immediately after the Lewinsky
scandal broke, whether they were concerned about the Wag the Dog scenario, that
Bill Clinton would bomb the nearest convenient enemy - at that time probably
Iraq - to turn attention away from the bedroom farce in the White House. Every
member of Congress said they w

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              194 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       August 21, 1998, Friday Edition 1

US launches attacks on 'terrorist' bases - President orders action after Africa
bombings

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 404 words


    US President Bill Clinton said last night he had ordered US armed forces to
strike at "terrorist facilities" in Afghanistan and Sudan in retaliation for the
embassy bombings in Africa.

Mr Clinton cut short his holiday and flew back to Washington.

The president said he ordered the attacks because "we have compelling
information they were planning additional terrorist acts".

"Today we have struck back," the president declared.

Mr Clinton added that the United States had struck a terrorist base in
Afghanistan and a chemical weapons facility in Sudan.

"We have convincing evidence these groups played the key role in the embassy
bombings in Kenya and Tanzania," he said. "Terrorists must have no doubt that in
the face of their threat, America will protect its citizens."

Mr Clinton made his remarks before leaving Martha's Vineyard to fly back to
Washington.

Two bombs exploded on August 7 at the US embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam,
killing 247 people in Kenya and 10 in Tanzania. More than 5,500 people were
injured, mostly Kenyans.

Mr Clinton said he acted after receiving information that the targets of
yesterday's attacks "were planning additional terrorist attacks against our
citizens and others".

In a dark business suit and starched white shirt, the president delivered his
statement to reporters clad in shorts and sandals in the gymnasium of the
Edgartown School, the Press base of operations during the Clintons' holiday.

He read from a double-spaced statement printed in large type.

The president promised a further statement when he reached Washington.

Defence Secretary William Cohen, speaking at the Pentagon, said: "We have taken
these actions to reduce the capability of these terrorists."

Mr Clinton said the groups that were struck were affiliated with Osama bin
Laden, a Saudi millionaire US officials say is a major sponsor of terrorism.

Mr Clinton said the Afghan base was "operated by groups affiliated with Osama
bin Laden, a network not sponsored by any state, but as dangerous as any we
face".

A group reportedly founded by bin Laden - the World Islamic Front for Jihad
Against Jews and Crusaders - issued a warning on Wednesday in the London-based
Arabic newspaper al-Hayat saying that "strikes will continue from everywhere"
against the United States.

FBI director Louis Freeh is in Africa with agents investigating the bombings.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              195 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                August 21, 1998

US missile attacks on terrorist bases

SECTION: Armed Forces: Soldiers, Pg.4

LENGTH: 314 words


US forces launched cruise missile strikes against alleged terrorist camps in
Afghanistan and a chemical plant in Sudan, in a retaliatory move 13 days after
the deadly embassy bombings in East Africa.

"Our target was terror," explained President Bill Clinton.

Interrupting his vacation to return to Washington last night, Mr Clinton acted
to "counter an immediate threat" of more terrorism.  He added:"Let our actions
today send this message loud and clear: there are no expendable American
targets. There will be no sanctuary for terrorists."

He said the attack's timing was based on US Intelligence that a "gathering of
key terrorist leaders" was planned yesterday at the site in Afghanistan, which
he called "one of the most active terrorist bases in the world".

Mr Clinton said the facilities attacked were linked to Osama bin Laden, a Saudi
millionaire whom the President called the "pre-eminent organiser and financier
of international terrorism in the world today". He said groups affiliated with
bin Laden were behind the August 7 bombings of the US embassies in Kenya and
Tanzania that killed more than 200 people, including 12 Americans.

According to a spokesman for Afghanistan's Taliban rulers, bin Laden was
unharmed in the attack.

In neighbouring Pakistan, sources said today that the missiles killed at least
eight people in a strike on a training camp near Khost, about 90 miles south of
the Afghan capital, Kabul.

Angry Sudanese stormed the empty US embassy compound in Khartoum early today and
pulled down the American flag to protest against the US attack.Sudanese
government officials termed the missile attack a criminal act and said it had
been ordered by President Clinton to draw attention away from his troubles in
the Monica Lewinsky sex scandal.

They said at least seven workers were injured and that some workers were still
unaccounted for.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 1998 The Sentinel

                              196 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                August 21, 1998

U.S. BLITZ ON TERROR CAMPS;
 Clinton orders Cruise attacks after embassy slaughter

BYLINE: A Special Correspondent

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 623 words


PRESIDENT Bill Clinton yesterday launched cruise missile strikes against alleged
terrorist camps in Afghanistan and a chemical plant in Sudan in retaliation for
the deadly bombings of U.S. embassies in East Africa.

''Our target was terror,'' Clinton declared.

In an address from the Oval Office just three days after he spoke to the nation
about the Monica Lewinsky investigation, he said he acted to ''counter an
immediate threat'' of more terrorist acts.

U.S. intelligence indicated that a ''gathering of key terrorist leaders'' was
planned at the site in Afghanistan yesterday.

Early today it was reported that a total of up to100 Cruise missiles had been
launched. The attack on Sudan came from navy vessels in the Red Sea, and the
missiles fired on Afghanistan came from ships in the Gulf.

Bombings

Clinton said he was acting on intelligence information that pinpointed ''one of
the most active terrorist bases in the world'' and an industrial plant that made
agents for chemical weapons.

The attacks were not only in response to the August 7 embassy bombings in Kenya
and Tanzania, but also to pre-empt more planned terrorist attacks on Americans.

He acted on the unanimous recommendation of his national security team.

''The countries that persistently host terrorism have no right to be safe
havens,'' said Clinton, who interrupted a holiday at Martha's Vineyard in
Massachusetts to rush back to Washington.

He and defence officials said the facilities attacked were linked to Osama bin
Laden, a Saudi millionaire whom U.S. officials call a major sponsor of
terrorism.

Bin Laden was unharmed, according to a spokesman for Afghanistan's Taliban
rulers last night.

U.S. Defence Secretary William Cohen said U.S. forces alone were involved in the
attacks on what he called a terrorist training and support compound in
Afghanistan, 94 miles south of Kabul, and on the Shifa pharmaceutical plant in
Khartoum, suspected of making agents for chemical weapons.

A U.S. intelligence official said the Shifa plant was used to make precursor
chemicals for the deadly nerve gas VX.

The sites in eastern Afghanistan are all part of what the intelligence official
called the largest and most extensive Sunni Moslem ''terrorist university'' in
the world.

The official said the site operated with the blessing, if not the outright
support, of the Taliban, the group that controls Afghanistan.

The timing of the strikes - 7.30pm in Sudan and 10pm in Afghanistan - was chosen
for three key reasons.

Civilians

The U.S. had information pointing to impending terrorist attacks coordinated by
bin Laden's organisation.

There would be a reduced risk of civilian casualties in Khartoum at that time.

And U.S. intelligence was informed that there would be more terrorists at the
training camp in Afghanistan than usual.

In Khartoum, Interior Minister Abdul Rahim Mohammed Hussein said two American
planes dropped about five bombs in three or four attacks on a privately-owned
factory in an industrial part of the capital.

''It is not chemical weapons. It is a factory for medical drugs,'' he said.

The president telephoned several congressional leaders before the strikes,
including Speaker Newt Gingrich and Senate Republican leader Trent Lott.

He also called Prime Minister Tony Blair, who last night backed the raids.

The U.S. bombings were announced on the same day former White House trainee Miss
Lewinsky testified for a second time to the grand jury investigating her
relationship with Clinton.

In Washington, Senator Arlen Specter suggested that he might have acted
precipitately in an attempt to ''focus attention away from his own personal
problems''.



LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              197 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           August 22, 1998, Saturday

BILL'S BACK ON TOP;
 RATINGS SOAR AFTER CRUISE ATTACKS;
 BILL CLINTON'S POPULARITY RATING RISES AFTER MISSILE ATTACKS ON TERRORIST BASES
IN AFGHANISTAN AND THE SUDAN

BYLINE: Andy Lines Us Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 263 words


PRESIDENT Bill Clinton's missile raids on terrorist bases in Afghanistan and the
Sudan have given his popularity a massive boost, it was revealed last night.

Polls show he has bounced back from the Monica Lewinsky scandal after ordering
the air strikes in retaliation for the bombings of two US embassies.

Up to eight out of 10

Americans support Mr Clinton's decision to take military action.

The President won approval from US politicians for his "brave and right
decision" to unleash 75 Tomohawk cruise missiles.

He was also supported by Prime Minister Tony Blair.

But there was widespread condemnation around the world and violent
demonstrations outside American embassies. Navy ships in the Red Sea and Arabian
Sea launched the missiles against three terrorist training camps near Afghanis-
tan's border with Pakistan and a chemical plant in Khartoum.

The attacks killed 26 and injured 40 in Afghanistan. But Mr Clinton's main
target, the terror chief Osama bin Laden, was said to have survived.

Twelve people were injured in the Khartoum attack on a plant Washington claimed
was producing chemical weapons, including deadly nerve gas VX.

Defence chiefs said the attacks were "successful".

Last night the US was braced for a wave of retaliation from radical Islamic
groups led by bin Laden.

He has already declared a "holy war" against the US and has vowed to kill as
many Americans as possible.

Security had been tightened all over the country and American airlines have been
ordered to avoid flying over Sudan and Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: APPROVAL: Clinton

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              198 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 24, 1998, Monday

UK prepared to attack terrorist bases

BYLINE: Paul Waugh and Marcus Tanner

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 390 words


GEORGE ROBERTSON, the Secretary of State for Defence, warned yesterday that the
Government was prepared to order US-style missile strikes on terrorist targets
if British embassies were attacked.

In the most hawkish comments yet made by a minister, Mr Robertson said
terrorists would be shown that there was "a price to be paid" for any assaults
on UK installations.

But Tony Benn, the Labour MP for Chesterfield, said Mr Robertson's remarks
showed that the British Government's uncritical support of US strikes in
Afghanistan and Sudan had placed Britons abroad in danger and proved the urgent
need to recall Parliament.

Tam Dalyell, Labour MP for Linlithgow, said he was "astonished" by Mr
Robertson's statement, adding: "I believe the Prime Minister has been
irresponsible in endorsing President Bill Clinton and I believe that George
Robertson has also been irresponsible. He has rendered vulnerable British
embassies and the softer targets of British council officers."

Mr Robertson said Britain had evidence that the Saudi dissident, Osama bin
Laden, was behind the bombings of US embassies in East Africa and was attempting
to acquire chemical weapons.

He refused to rule out missile attacks by the Royal Navy or RAF if any British
targets were hit by a terror campaign believed to involve Mr bin Laden. "We have
given the same indications and the same warnings to international terrorists who
would threaten our embassies that the consequences would be dire on them if they
did it," he told BBC Radio 4's The World This Weekend.  "We are all targets if
they believe they can get away with it with impunity."

Mr Robertson said his US counterpart, William Cohen, had compelling evidence
that the El Shifa pharmaceutical factory in the Sudanese capital Khartoum was
producing chemical and biological weapons.

His remarks further widen the gap between Britain and its European allies on the
US air strikes. With the exception of Tony Blair, European leaders have reacted
coolly to the American cruise missile bombings of alleged terrorist sites in
Afghanistan and Sudan.

Sudan renewed its demand yesterday for a United Nations team to investigate the
factory attacked by the US, which it insists produced medical drugs.

Call for UN probe, page 10

Paul Spike,

Review, page 4


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              199 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                August 27, 1998

Worldwide terror alert after restaurant attack

SECTION: Pg.23

LENGTH: 716 words


Security was stepped up last night at American food outlets worldwide after a
bomb at Cape Town's Planet Hollywood tore apart a British family-of -six.

The homemade device ripped through the crowded restaurant in the South African
city's trendy Waterfront tourist district on Tuesday night just as the Giddings
family, from Hampshire, were sitting down to a "treat" meal.

Grandmother Iris Giddings, who miraculously escaped with minor injuries, told
how she had arranged a surprise outing to the celebrity-owned chain for her two
grandchildren - only to see them horribly maimed moments later.

Her eight-year -old granddaughter, Laura, suffered such severe blast injuries
that doctors were forced to amputate her left foot. Laura's brother, Jacob,
three, remains in intensive care with spinal injuries caused by shrapnel.

The terrorist strike, which left one dead and 27 injured, including nine
Britons, was immediately blamed on Muslim fanatics bent on avenging American
cruise missile raids last week on Afghanistan and Sudan.

As fears mounted of a new bombing campaign against soft US targets, the FBI sent
agents to investigate the atrocity and Planet Hollywood ordered extra security
measures at its worldwide network of restaurants.

McDonalds, which has been pinpointed along with Planet Hollywood as a potential
terrorist target, refused to discuss any extra security arrangements at its
23,000 global outlets but stressed it remained ever vigilant.

Mother-of-four Mrs Giddings, who is in her 60s, was last night counting the
awful cost of what was supposed to have been the holiday of a lifetime to the
country she has fallen in love with.

Speaking from her room in the city's Portswood hotel, she told how a terrible
explosion ripped her family apart before her eyes: "We had just arrived and were
being shown to our seats when the whole place was torn apart.

"There was a flash and then everything went dark as the ceilings and walls
seemed to come down upon us. I was knocked down and saw all my family lying
injured before me.

"It was one of the most terrible things I can imagine seeing - there was
absolute chaos and my family were all terribly hurt before me.

"We had gone to the restaurant as a treat for my grandchildren, it was the sort
of place we thought they would like."

Laura Giddings and her brother last night remained in intensive care at Cape
Town's City Park hospital. Their father Tony, 38, from Bramshaw, near
Southampton, was satisfactory after a suffering a broken leg in the blast.

The children's mother, Mandy, 35, and Mrs Giddings' husband Brian, 65, both
underwent surgery for shrapnel wounds and were in a stable condition.

A hospital spokesman said the "particularly distressing" injuries suffered by
the children would mean a long recovery in hospital.

Bosses at Planet Hollywood, an upmarket fast-food chain set up by mega-stars
Sylvester Stallone, Bruce Willis and Arnold Schwarzenegger, announced they were
increasing security - and warned other prominent US brands to follow suit.

In a statement released at its New York HQ, Planet Hollywood said: "In the light
of world events, we believe it is prudent for all United States-based companies
with overseas units to heighten their awareness of security."

Hundreds of diners were evacuated from the chain's London branch in Leicester
Square on Tuesday night just one hour after the Cape Town attack following a
warning that a device had been planted in the nearby Trocadero centre.

McDonald's spokeswoman Julie Cleray, speaking at the burger giant's Illinois
headquarters, said:"We cannot discuss any new measures in the light of recent
events; however, we have always operated a very stringent security policy."

In London, Foreign Office Minister Tony Lloyd extended his sympathy to the
injured and joined widespread condemnation of the Cape Town attack, saying there
could be no justification for "this cowardly attack on innocent people".

In South Africa, confusion surrounded the identity of the bombers after an
anonymous caller claimed responsibility for a little-known group of
anti-American extremists, Muslims Against Global Oppression.

But government officials said the outrage was probably in revenge for the US
cruise missile attacks on Afghanistan and Sudan.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1998 Western Morning News

                              200 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           August 29, 1998, Saturday

WOMAN SURVIVES BOMB BLAST NO2;
NEW ORDEAL: MUM HURT IN TERRORIST ATTACK FOR SECOND TIME IN A YEAR;
Israeli woman survives her second terrorist bomb attack in less than a year

SECTION: Page 17

LENGTH: 108 words


An Israeli woman has been injured in a terrorist bomb attack - for the second
time in a year.

Ora Kaufman was among 21 people hurt when a nail bomb hidden in a rubbish bin
exploded in Tel Aviv on Thursday.

Her injuries were not serious and she went home after treatment in hospital.

Last September, she was on the last day of a holiday in Jerusalem when a
Palestinian suicide squad set off a bomb a few yards from where she was sitting
with her baby daughter in a pavement cafe.

The baby, six-month-old Tamar, suffered multiple burns, though Mrs Kaufman was
only slightly hurt.

No one has claimed responsibility for Thursday's blast.


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1998 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              201 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           September 1, 1998, Tuesday

MAGINNIS FURY AT LABOUR MP;
 MCNAMARA LAUNCHES ATTACK ON NEW ANTI-TERROR LAWS

BYLINE: Mervyn Pauley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 712 words


ULSTER Unionist Party security spokesman Ken Maginnis yesterday rounded on a
senior Labour backbencher over his criticisms on the proposed new anti
-terrorist laws to be pushed through the Commons tomorrow.

Mr Maginnis, MP for Fermanagh-South Tyrone, has dismissed a savaging of the
proposals by former shadow spokesman on Northern Ireland, Kevin McNamara's, who,
he said, had never been very helpful to people in Northern Ireland: "He lives in
a sort of limbo world; his Irish republican sympathies are well-known," he said.

Mr Maginnis confided, however, that he had misgivings of his own about the new
legislation. "What I fear about it is that it will be inadequate and
ineffective," he said.

"Although we have to be thankful for what we have got, some very practical steps
could be taken, like wiretap evidence being included. That's much better than
the word of a senior police officer being contested."

And he suggested there would be popular backing for tough action against the
dissident terrorist groups, including the reintroduction of internment.

He believed if it came to a choice between having "a succession of Omaghs" or
the internment of a small group of well-known terrorists, the people would
accept internment. But he criticised the Labour government for removing the
power from the statute book.

At the weekend Mr McNamara questioned giving extra powers to the RUC to make it
easier to convict terrorist suspects. Any misuse of the power, he warned, could
end up generating sympathy for terrorism.

His misgivings will help to fuel a revolt by Labour left-wingers, who are
warning they could vote against the measures - part of the London- Dublin
fight-back against renegade terrorists in the wake of the Omagh bombing, the
work of the self-styled Real IRA.

Mr McNamara is tabling an amendment protesting at the lack of time being allowed
for the legislation when MPs return for the special session. The Lords debates
the package on Thursday.

One of several Labour MPs worried about its implications, he warned:
"Legislation which has gone through in a rush very often has created worse
problems than it was hoped to solve.

"We have had a succession of tough laws and tough laws and tough laws and the
horror has increased and increased and increased."

The Hull North MP said he was particularly concerned that the legislation would
deny suspects the right of silence and he suggested it could leave Britain in
breach of the European Convention on Human Rights.

"I don't believe that's the right way of dealing with this particular matter,
but I believe there are more important questions of principle involved," he
argued.

"If we are going to try to prevent the horrors we had in Omagh, and in Cape
Town, and Kenya and Tanzania, there are better ways of dealing with it than
rushing through legislation of this nature."

Downing Street insisted yesterday that a letter from Tony Blair to all Labour
backbenchers ahead of the recall was not a bid to quell rebellion.

It was a matter of courtesy to explain to the MPs why the Prime Minister was
interrupting their summer break.

No 10 has confirmed that the new anti-terror laws will be reviewed every 12
months.

Labour MP Tony McWalter, a member of the Northern Ireland Select Committee,
insisted the legislation was necessary and would be supported at Westminster.

"If we see a carefully drafted, targeted attack on the people who continue to
violate the democratic rule of the people of Ireland, and they are very small in
number, then the House of Commons will have no difficulty approving it," he
said.

Alan Beith, the Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, said his party
believed that urgent legislation was needed to deal with dangerous republican
splinter groups.

MPs will see a draft of the Bill this afternoon, while the Bill itself will be
published tomorrow morning, the Home Office indicated.

"We want to give MPs an early opportunity to see what it says," a spokesman
said.

Although there has been criticism from MPs that they have not had the chance to
see the Bill's provisions earlier, the spokesman said the department was simply
clarifying publication arrangements, and that its plans had not been altered.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KEN MAGINNIS;; KEVIN McNAMARA

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              202 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               September 3, 1998

OAPs 'are living in terror of attacks';
 Thugs blamed for vandalism at home

BYLINE: By Una Bradley

LENGTH: 268 words


POLICE are to visit pensioners in a residential home after allegations that they
are being terrorised by local thugs, it emerged today.

Windows have been smashed at Palmerston Guest House in east Belfast and missiles
have regularly been thrown into the grounds, according to staff.

Police confirmed they had been called out to the Sydenham home more than once
and that they are paying extra attention to the area.

They also said a community officer was to visit the pensioners to listen to
their grievances.

A senior care worker at the home, which is run by the Newtonabbey Methodist
Mission, said the vandalism intensifed around the time of this year's Drumcree
stand-off.

Said Beverly Jackson: "We had garden furniture stolen in July to be used for
fires. Since then, there has been little let-up.

"The residents are very frightened. One woman in her eighties is distressed and
finding it hard to sleep.

"We don't know who the hooligans are, but we presume they're from the Sydenham
area. They just run away when they see the police coming."

Around 33 pensioners live in the home, with a further 22 in sheltered
accommodation in the grounds.

Local councillor Jim Rodgers recently went to check out the situation for
himself.

"I am appalled by this - the pensioners are being terrorised. Enough is enough.

"I confronted some of these kids and was subjected to abuse myself. I would
really ask those involved to think about what they are doing.

"This is a community problem also and I appeal to parents to find out where
their sons are going late at night."


LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              203 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 4, 1998, Friday

Parliament & Politics: Lords attack on 'rushed' terror Bill

BYLINE: Sarah Schaefer Parliamentary Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Page 8

LENGTH: 912 words


THE GOVERNMENT'S emergency anti-terror legislation was set to become law today
despite further attacks by peers about the lack of time to consider the measures
with proper scrutiny.

While peers broadly supported the Criminal Justice (Terrorism and Conspiracy)
Bill, they warned during a Lords debate last night that the legislation could
contravene the European Convention on Human Rights.

Peers followed MPs in complaining about ministers' insistence to push the Bill
on to the statute book in less than 48 hours, but agreed to pass it in one
session.

The measures, drafted in the wake of the terrorist atrocities in Omagh, Nairobi
and Dar es Salaam, are mirrored by legislation passed in the Dail, Ireland's
Lower House.

The Bill will make it easier to prosecute people for membership of outlawed
terrorist groups - the Real IRA, which claimed responsibility for the Omagh
massacre, the Continuity IRA, the INLA and the LVF. It will also outlaw UK-based
groups that conspire to commit offences abroad.

Leading the protests in the Lords against the Government's timetable, the
Liberal Democrat chief whip, Lord Harris of Greenwich, said: "We are invited to
abandon our role as a revising Chamber.

"We are asked to give the executive almost absolute power to put the legislation
on the statute book without detailed debate in the normal manner."

The Opposition peers' leader, Viscount Cranborne, joined the protest, voicing
"deep unease" about the manner in which the Bill had been introduced.

Lord Cranborne said the "extraordinarily hurried and unprepared way" it had been
brought in was evident in its drafting and called for reassurances about being
able to review the legislation later to ensure it was in good order.

Labour's Lord Stoddart of Swindon said there was absolutely no reason why the
Bill's clause dealing with conspiracy to commit crimes abroad needed to be
introduced with this Bill. He said: "We understand the need to have legislation
to deal with terrorism, but it should be the right legislation and correct
legislation that will do good."

Responding, the Leader of the House of Lords, Baroness Jay of Paddington,
promised that Parliament would have the opportunity to review the Bill on an
annual basis and assured peers that the Government's Chief Whip was already
looking at the issue of dealing with emergency legislation.

"We take these matters very seriously and the substantive points raised will be
addressed," she said.

Peers then approved without a vote the Government's motion to enable the Bill to
go through the Lords in just one sitting.

Opening the Bill's second reading debate, the Home Office minister Lord Williams
of Mostyn reminded critics of the legislation that it had been created in
response to the murders in Omagh and to the "clear and present danger" of
terrorism.

The Bill, aimed to stop terrorist groups from derailing the Good Friday
Agreement, makes admissible in court the opinion of a senior police officer that
an individual is a member of such groups, allows a suspect's failure to answer
questions to be be taken into account, and gives the police the power to seize
their property.

The Liberal Democrat spokesman on Northern Ireland, Lord Holme of Cheltenham,
said the Bill could have been introduced in a "more measured way".

The Bishop of Hereford, the Rt Rev John Oliver, said the Government's failure
over the past two years to introduce audiotaping of police interviews in
Northern Ireland proved that the Bill was "fraught with danger".

But the former Ulster Unionist Leader, Lord Molyneaux of Killead, warned that
the Real IRA was as deadly as the body to which they formerly belonged.  He
stressed that the renegade republican group had transferred much of its weaponry
from the IRA and warned that it was likely to have built up a formidable armoury
by early next year. "I cannot regard the Bill as totally adequate to contain
such a threat," he said.

Lord Lloyd of Berwick, one of Britain's most senior law lords and the judge
chosen to review the law on terrorism in 1996, said that Bill would contribute
nothing to the fight against terrorism. He added that any conviction that
stemmed from the Bill would not stand up in the European Court of Justice. "No
judge anywhere in the world could convict solely on the say so of a police
officer."

Lord Lloyd added that even Lord Diplock had considered and rejected the idea of
drawing inferences from a suspect's silence, as long ago as 1973.

Lord Mayhew of Twysden, the former Secretary of State for Northern Ireland,
acknowledged that there had been "overwhelming pressure" on the Government to
introduce anti-terrorist legislation after the Omagh bombing.  "But we have to
be careful that this Bill does not turn out to be dangerous law," he said.

He opposed the power to allow the Home Secretary to overrule the Attorney
General's refusal to prosecute a case, claiming "I find that quite
extraordinary".

Lord Avebury, former chairman of the all-party human rights group at
Westminster, tabled amendments opposing the entire conspiracy abroad provisions.

Earl Russell urged for a restriction of the conspiracy provisions to countries
which have free and fair elections.

"Moral outrage, however justified, confers no dispensation from the immutable
law of politics, that measures must be capable of producing the desired effect,"
he said.


LOAD-DATE: September 04, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              204 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                               September 4, 1998

Terrorism law rush attacked

SECTION: Politics: MP's, Pg.13

LENGTH: 256 words


BLABY MP Andrew Robathan has attacked the Government for rushing through tough
anti-terrorism legislation designed to target the Omagh bombers.

The Conservative backbencher insisted he agreed with the measures which would
allow renegade terrorists opposed to the peace process to be locked up, but he
said the urgency had more to do with impressing President Clinton than in
cracking down on terrorism.

Mr Robathan, who served as a soldier in Northern Ireland, said: "This is rushed
legislation and I suspect it will be bad legislation.

Response

"I certainly do not believe that the country or the fight against terrorism will
benefit from our having passed it in such a rush."

Mr Robathan backed the Bill but, along with Bosworth MP David Tredinnick, voted
against the move to get it passed in two days.

Prime Minister Tony Blair insisted that a speedy response was necessary to deal
with exceptional circumstances.

He said: "We can have complete agreement across all the mainstream political
parties and the terrorists could carry on operating.

"In the exceptional circumstances that exist, I believe that we are right and
justified in saying that we must take exceptional measures to mop up the last
renegade terrorist groups that are prepared to threaten the future of Northern
Ireland."

The Bill received its second reading in the Commons on Wednesday night and went
to the Lords yesterday.

It should become law by today at the same time as new measures introduced by the
Irish government also come into force.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1998 Leicester Mercury

                              205 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               September 8, 1998

Dissidents had year of blood and terror;
 Scores of attacks before Omagh

BYLINE: By John Hicks

LENGTH: 317 words


THE self-styled Real IRA started their short but bloody terror campaign almost
exactly a year ago.

Before it ended with the Omagh massacre, the deadly breakaway Republican group
had carried out a string of bombings, attempted bombings and firebomb attacks.

Its first attack was a massive van bomb in Markethill in Co Armagh, planted
outside the local RUC station on September 16, 1997 .

There was a short warning and the explosion caused widespread damage, but no
-one was hurt.

On January 6, this year the RIRA planted a car bomb in Banbridge town centre,
but the device was defused.

The following month on February 20 a large car bomb exploded outside the RUC
station in Moira.

There was widespread damage and a number of civilians were injured but not
seriously.

Three days later a 1,000lb car bomb devastated the centre of Portadown, causing
extensive damage.

On March 10, the RIRA carried out an abortive mortar attack on the RUC station
at Armagh.

On June 24, a car bomb exploded in Newtownhamilton on the day before the
Assembly elections.

The bomb was made by the RIRA but claimed by the INLA.

The next month the RIRA carried out a mortar bomb attack on Newry police
station. There was little damage but a number of civilians narrowly escaped
injury.

A bomb planted in the town at the same time was defused.

In Portadown, the dissident group claimed responsibilty for a number of
incendiary attacks on stores in the town on July 28.

The group came close to a massacre in Banbridge on August 2, when the security
forces were given only a few minutes warning of a 500lb car bomb in the town
centre.

More then 30 people were injured and millions of pounds worth of damage was
caused to property.

Throughout the 12 months of terror, it is known that the security forces, north
and south of the border, thwarted up to 30 planned attacks.


LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              206 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                     September 10, 1998, Thursday Edition 5

Woman in sex attack terror

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 123 words


   A SEX attacker launched an horrific assault on a 77-year-old pensioner in her
sheltered home

John Potts tried to trick his way into the woman's warden controlled home at
night saying he was her son, Newcastle Crown Court was told. The woman realised
he was an impostor, pressed the intercom to contact the warden, and slipped out
of the back to raise the alarm.

But Potts climbed into the backyard, chased the pensioner as she fled into her
home, and caught up with her outside a bedroom, it was claimed.

Potts pulled at her night-clothes, molested her, and assaulted her.

Potts, 29, of Ridley Street, Southwick, Sunderland, denies indecent assault,
burglary with intent to rape, and assault. The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              207 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 13, 1998, Sunday

YOU CAST YOUR X;
Bush WHACKED;
It looked as if Johanna Petronella Otto had been attacked by terrorists

SECTION: Page 14 XS

LENGTH: 739 words


When a woman falls out with a friend the results can be nasty...  but, even in
the heat of Africa, does it lead to murder?

When Johanna Petronella Otto's car was first found, it looked as if she was the
victim of a terrorist attack.

It had careered off the road and come to rest on its roof in the African bush.

The bodywork was pock-marked with bullet holes and the 63-year-old woman was
lying, badly wounded, inside.

She died in hospital the following day.

The question was... had Johanna Otto had been murdered by someone closer to
home.

Someone she knew.

Their investigations soon centred on Mia Van Solms, the last person to see Ms
Otto alive - apart from the person who actually pulled the trigger.

The 47-year-old former accountant with the country's Ministry of Mines and
Energy had been a friend of Otto's but recently they had drifted apart.

And it was all over another woman.

According to Van Solms, Otto had begun to exert an evil influence over a mutual
friend, Kotie Britz. Otto, it was claimed, was jealous of anyone talking to
Kotie and her possessive behaviour had turned Mrs Britz from an outgoing,
affable person into a quiet, introspective woman who no longer spoke to her
friends or relatives.

In Van Solms' eyes, Otto was guilty of "murder of the soul". And for that, she
had to die. When questioned by police, Mia Van Solms admitted she had wanted the
woman dead.

She even admitted joining forces with her son and his flatmate, Kotie's nephew,
Roelef Johannes Swart, to plot the murder.

According to prosecutors, she recruited Swart first by telling him that Otto had
been making insulting remarks about his family.

Later, her 29-year-old son Jan was drawn into the plot. Both he and Roelef were
habitual drug users and were easily susceptible to the suggestions of the
strong-willed Mia, lawyers claimed.

Roelef and Jan were at the time rooming together in the back of the Van Solms'
house in the township Okahandja, north of the Namibian capital of Windhoek.
Together, this unholy trinity hatched and rejected a number of murder plots.

First they planned to smother the older woman with a pillow, but this was
abandoned. They then thought poison might be a less personal method of despatch.
They even went to the length of crushing sleeping tablets and pouring the powder
into a drink, which was then served to Otto. But this failed when the drugged
concoction had no effect.

Finally, they decided on an ambush. Mia would lure her old friend to a quiet
stretch of the road 25km north of Okahandja and Swart and Jan would blast her
with an AK47 rifle - the terrorist's friend.

Otto would not have suspected a thing as she made her way home after

the meeting. She would not have thought anything of the pick-up truck bouncing
on the road in front of her. She would not even have seen Swart poking the
barrel of the automatic rifle from the back. But she would have heard the weapon
spitting death at her.

Bullets thudded into the car and shattered the windscreen. She was hit a number
of times and then further injured as the car skidded from the road and
overturned.

Then Jan Van Solms, the pick-up driver, sped back home.

But when questioned, Mia insisted she had called off the attack.

She claimed to the jury she had told Swart that Otto was not to be touched. But
Swart went ahead with it anyway, against her orders.

Swart, however, alleged that Mrs Van Solms had said nothing of calling off the
attack. She had wanted it seen through to its bloody conclusion.

Swart went to trial alone and was found guilty. He later gave evidence against
the mother and son.

During her two years awaiting trial, Mrs Van Solms said she had become a born
again Christian and was telling the truth when she said she had called the whole
thing off. And with Jan Van Solms remaining silent, co- conspirator

The guilty Swart the only witness to the actual murder he was the only one who
could wholly implicate Mia Van Solms.

It came down to who the judge believed? Did he take the word of a murderer? Did
Mia Van Solms give the final order for the execution of her friend to be carried
out? Or was she telling the truth when she said she wanted it all called off?

YOU DECIDE...  CAST YOUR X VERDICT: In March this year, Mia and Jan Van Solms
were found guilty of murder in Windhoek. The judge said there was never any real
attempt to have the murder attempt halted.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1998 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              208 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               September 14, 1998

Tourist in knife attack terror

BYLINE: By William Telford

SECTION: Pg.3

LENGTH: 371 words


AN ITALIAN solo yachtsman was mugged at knife-point by two men in a city alley
at the weekend.

And in a second attack, a 67-year-old man was threatened in broad daylight by a
knife-wielding youth in Greenbank.

Italian Massimo Donchi, from Sondrio, had his passport and GBP 175 stolen by
robbers when he was grabbed in East Street, off Union Street and bundled into an
alcove behind the Dance Academy club at 3am on Saturday.

He was punched in the face and one man held a knife to his throat while the
other rifled through his pockets. The attackers ran off in the direction of
George Place.

The sailor, who had stopped off in Plymouth during a single-handed trip around
Europe, speaks little English and had to give a statement to police via a phone
link to an interpreter in North Devon.

The robbers were both described as in their 30s and clean-shaven. One has long
straight dyed blond hair, with an orange tint, tied in a pony tail. The other
has short dark hair.

Detective Inspector Harry Sleeman, of Charles Cross CID, said if anyone finds
the passport they should hand it in at a police station so it can be returned to
its owner.

He added: "This was a frightening experience for the Italian."

Anyone with information about should telephone Detective Constable Tony Chapman
on 01752 720595.

In the second incident over the weekend, a 67-year-old man was walking through
Greenbank on his way to his Waterloo Street home when a teenager brandished a
knife and demanded money from him.

In the attack, at 6.30pm on Saturday, the young man thrust the knife, with a
seven-inch blade, against the pensioner's throat.

But when the attacker saw another man in the street, he fled empty -handed in
the direction of Deptford Place, telling the pensioner 'You're lucky this time'.

The attacker, who police said appeared 'agitated', is described as around 17
years old, 5ft 7ins tall, with short fair hair and a pale complexion.

Detective Constable Stuart Elford, of Charles Cross CID, appealed for witnesses.
He said: "The elderly man was quite shaken up. This was very frightening for
him."

Anyone with information about this incident should rind DC Elford on 01752
720455 or CD Mick Woodland on 01752 720542.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1998 Evening Herald

                              209 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     September 17, 1998, Thursday Edition 1

Jail for terror attack on PC

BYLINE: By Richard Harris

SECTION: REGIONAL NEWS, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 229 words


   A businessman who drove off with a young police officer in his car after she
tried to give him a parking ticket has been jailed.

PC Melanie Nicholson's terror drive came after she asked George Campbell, 47, to
move his Range-Rover from a no-parking area in the market place in Egremont,
West Cumbria, on March 11 last year.

He became abusive, threatened to run her over and when she leaned in through the
open passenger door to book him, he drove off at high speed, making her topple
inside.

To avoid serious injury, she had no choice but to climb on to the passenger seat
and shut the door behind her.

As the terrified officer radioed for help, Campbell sped through the town,
threatening to set the Mafia on to her.

He stopped only when he reached the Bridge End industrial estate, a mile away,
where he runs a confectionery wholesale business.

There PC Nicholson sprayed him with CS gas and arrested him.

Campbell, of Oaklands, Egremont, denied dangerous driving and assault with
intent to avoid arrest, but was convicted of both counts at Carlisle Crown
Court.

He was jailed for six months, banned from driving for 18 months and ordered to
pay £700 court costs.

Judge Robert Brown told him he was guilty of an appalling piece of driving
brought about by the arrogant, high-handed, aggressive and impatient side of his
character.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              210 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                               September 21, 1998

CITY SEX ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: By Richard Prest

SECTION: Crime: Assault, Pg.1

LENGTH: 208 words


A WOMAN was subjected to a terrifying daylight sex attack in the centre of
Aberdeen, it was revealed today.

Detectives say the woman was bundled into a lane in Shiprow near the Maritime
Museum at 6.30pm on Saturday.

The 27-year -old victim was walking towards Aberdeen bus station in Guild Street
when she was approached by a man asking for a cigarette.

He then pushed her into the lane and sexually assaulted her before fleeing the
scene.

The woman, who was slightly injured in the attack, then made her way to a
friend's house from where she later alerted police.

A police spokesman said the woman was left highly distressed by her ordeal.

He said the incident was disturbing, especially as it happened in the early
evening in an area which would have been fairly busy at the time.

Police are urging anyone who saw anything suspicious or who was in the area at
the time to get in touch as they could hold vital information.

The attacker is around 40, 5ft 5-7in, stocky, firm build, with dark brown hair
with a flick at the front and balding at the back. He was wearing a light grey
blouson jacket and dark trousers.

Anyone with any information should contact Grampian Police on (01224) 386000 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              211 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 23, 1998

Woman relives terror attack;
 ROBBERY DENIED: mother of four 'punched'

SECTION: News, Pg.3

LENGTH: 313 words


A BATH post office worker attacked in the second raid at her shop in the space
of six weeks has relived her ordeal in court.

Mother-of-four Susan Hurd told Bristol Crown Court yesterday that she had been
punched in the face and pushed to one side as a robber grabbed notes from the
till in the frightening incident at South Twerton Post Office on the corner of
Lymore Avenue and Coronation Avenue on January 21.

The court heard that the incident came just six weeks after a robbery in which
two people - including her husband Dave - had been stabbed at the post office.

Mrs Hurd was giving evidence yesterday at the trial of Darren Sexton, 24, of Odd
Down, who denies carrying out the robbery on January 21.

She told the court that a young man had gone into the shop and had taken a
packet of sweets to the counter.

"He had fiddled with a 5 note before handing it over. As she was putting it into
the till, he had struck, she said.

"The man hit me in the face, pushing me to make me lose my balance. I lost my
balance, I remained standing but I was off-balance and stunned," she said.

She told defence barrister Peter Blair that she had been more aware of the
identity of people coming into the shop and particularly noticed customers she
did not know following the December robbery.

Sub-postmaster Charles Francis, who has worked at the store for 17 years, had
been working at the back of the shop at the time of the January incident.

He told the jury he had heard a scream and his name being called and had rushed
into the shop.

He said: "She (Mrs Hurd) was certainly in a state of shock and distress."

He added that he had seen only the back of the head of the robber as he ran out
of the shop.

The court was told that Mrs Hurd had picked Mr Sexton out at an identity parade
two weeks after the incident.

The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              212 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Investors Chronicle

                               September 25, 1998

Survey - Greater Manchester: Building a future - Manchester city centre
continues its phoenix like rise from the flames of terrorist attack but,
inevitably, some parts are rising quicker than others

BYLINE: By DAVID THAME

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 777 words


It is now more than two years since a terrorist bomb devastated much of
Manchester city centre and today Europe's largest city centre redevelopment plan
is well underway.

The pounds 500m-plus scheme promises to add more than 30 per cent to the city
centre's stock of retail property, creating another 800,000 sq ft of new
floorspace. It also includes 168,000 sq ft of new offices, 380,000 sq ft of new
leisure space, 12 acres of new public space and more than 1,000 new jobs.

Plans in Shambles

Shambles Square - a concrete 1970s shopping precinct - due for demolition to
make way for a new high quality shopping street has proved to be one of the
relatively slow movers. Yet progress here is vital to the entire redevelopment
scheme.

Demolishing the Shambles involved coming to arrangements with more than 70
tenants or landowners, a problem that could ultimately be resolved only with the
help of a compulsory purchase order (CPO).

Alison Nimmo, project director for Manchester Millennium - the public/private
sector body charged with completing the rebuilding of Manchester's retail core -
explains: 'Shambles Square was always going to be the toughest nut to crack.
Before we could get on with demolition we had to move two listed buildings and
tackle complicated land ownership issues.'

In late August the Department of the Environment finally gave a green light to
the CPO, although most of the 70 interested parties had already come to
voluntary arrangements with Nimmo's team.

'There are now only five interests with which to come to an agreement. This
rests on finding them somewhere else in the city from which to trade but one of
the problems of the economic boom in Manchester is that there are now few places
left to put them,' she says.

The most testing set of negotiations have been going on with supermarket giants
Safeway which were an anchor tenant in the Shambles scheme.

Says Nimmo: 'We have not yet finalised a package of compensation with Safeway,
but we are making progress and the CPO helps.'

Once Shambles Square has been demolished attention can focus on its replacement,
a tree lined boulevard to be called New Cathedral Street. The street, partially
funded by a pounds 12m grant from English Partnerships, is intended to add to
Manchester's popular St Anne's Square and King Street areas, already home to an
enviable crowd of designer and high-fashion retailers.

The centrepiece of the new street will be an 80,000 sq ft Harvey Nichols store.
Negotiations between Manchester Millennium and the Knightsbridge retailer have
been shrouded in secrecy. However, it is believed that in Manchester - and in
parallel negotiations for a store in Glasgow - Harvey Nichols has been driving a
hard bargain. The key issue is understood to be the rent. The city's retail
market would be both surprised and disturbed if an announcement were not made
soon after the new year.

These two issues aside, progress on the vast rebuilding and regeneration project
is much more visible.

Progress on improving the notoriously ugly Arndale Centre is now well advanced,
with new owners Prudential picking up from where old owners P & O left off,
after it sold the centre earlier this year for more than pounds 315m. The 1.25m
sq ft centre is expected to weather the competition provided by the new Trafford
Centre, four miles west of the city centre.

Improvements at the Arndale will work to the advantage of an pounds 85m
leisure-led scheme called The Printworks launched by West Midlands property
developers, Don and Roy Richardson. Site works are now well advanced on a
futuristic 300,000 sq ft complex to include cinemas, restaurants and retailing.

Joint agents Jones Lang Wootton, won't confirm lettings to the Hard Rock Cafe or
to prestige London music retailer, Tower Records. Lettings to a 45,000 sq ft
Virgin family entertainment centre and a UCI cinema complex have already been
confirmed for the 350,000 sq ft project.

Nearby, work will soon begin on the Millennium Centre which is intended to be
Manchester's answer to the Paris Pompidou centre, complete with futuristic
design and high-tech arts and entertainment displays.

Says Alison Nimmo: 'We've seen huge visible progress over the last 12 months,
with a new 350,000 sq ft Marks and Spencer store rising out of the ground, and
work on the Printworks scheme. That gives people confidence that the
redevelopment is really happening and shows something tangible to investors.'

There are still problems to overcome - it would be strange if there were not -
but confidence is high. The new city centre will be completed by 2001.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                Copyright 1998 Financial Times Business Limited

                              213 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               September 26, 1998

Family terror in car attack

BYLINE: By Carol Saunders

SECTION: Pg.2

LENGTH: 507 words


ONE of the victims' of an unprovoked attack in a Plymouth car park has spoken
about the ordeal he and a young family went through.

Jason Lethbridge, 24, his girlfriend and her two young sons were sitting in
their car in Stonehouse Creek car park when a man seeking revenge on city
prostitutes kicked in two side windows and then smashed the windscreen with a
bottle.

With Mr Lethbridge bleeding, and the seven- and 11-year-old boys screaming in
the back, his brave partner managed to peer through the shattered windscreen and
drive them away to safety.

Police later arrested 30-year-old John Thomson, who appeared at Plymouth
Magistrate's Court this week where he pleaded guilty to assault and criminal
damage.

Thomson, of Wyndham Street West, had told police he saw the car's window's
steamed up and knew the car park was a haunt of prostitutes and their clients.

Smashing

He admitted shouting "what are you doing here" before smashing in the windows.

He also admitted he had been drinking and was on prescription drugs at the time
as he was coming off heroin.

Thomson told the court he was sorry about the offences, but said his children
lived near the car park and he was angry at the time they brought back used
needles and condoms.

Magistrates ordered him to carry out 100 hours unpaid work in the community, put
him on two years probation, and ordered him to pay GBP 137.14 compensation to
cover the cost of the repairs to the car windows.

Mr Lethbridge, whose partner doesn't want to be identified, said they had been
for an evening's drive with the two young boys and had pulled into the car park
for a rest and a chat.

He said: "We were just an ordinary family group sitting there in the car. The
windows weren't steamed up - I could see him clearly coming across the car park
towards us.

"I was in the passenger seat leaning against the window, and the next thing it
was kicked in. He kicked my neck as he did it and glass showered everywhere,
cutting my ear.

"He then went round to the driver's side, where my girlfriend was sitting. The
boys were in the back and were screaming by now, but he kicked in that window.

"We were shouting at him that there were children in the car, but he shouted
abuse back. He then used an empty bottle to smash the windscreen.

"The whole thing was terrifying, although I must say my girlfriend coped well
and got us away."

They managed to drive to Union Street and alert police. Thomson was later
arrested.

Mr Lethbridge said: "I got nothing in the way of compensation for the injuries I
had, although I am glad my girlfriend got compensation for the cost of the
windows in her car.

"I needed to go to hospital that evening to make sure there was no glass in the
cuts I received, and a day or so later had to go to my GP because of the pain in
my neck.

"My girlfriend's sons were also upset over the incident for some time after,
although they are OK now.

"A lot of people thought he would get a custodial sentece for what he did, but I
suppose he got what he deserved."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SHATTERED: Jason Lethbridge in the family car that was smashed up in a
revenge attack against prostitutes in a city centre car park Picture Al Stewart

                         Copyright 1998 Evening Herald

                              214 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                               September 26, 1998

Terror of hammer attack publican

BYLINE: By Judy Cullimore

SECTION: Crimes & Dossiers: Assault, Pg.7

LENGTH: 273 words


A PUBLICAN thought he was going to die when a man attacked him with a hammer in
the street, Nottingham Crown Court heard.

David Smith had harboured a grudge against Donald Oliver for years and seized
his chance for revenge when he saw the 51-year-old in a city pub.

After smashing Mr Oliver's car windscreen , he hit him twice on the back of the
head with the hammer, then in the face.

As the attack continued, Patrick Dinnall joined in, punching and kicking the
victim in the head and body as he was on the ground, the court was told
yesterday.

Smith, 27, of Braidwood Court, Hyson Green, admitted in June wounding Mr Oliver
with intent in July 1997.

Jailing him for six years, Judge Dudley Bennett told him: "It is a mercy the
injuries he suffered were not more serious than they were."

Dinnall, 27, of Willow Hill Close, Bulwell, was jailed for four years. He was
convicted earlier this month of wounding, a charge he denied.

Steven Coupland, prosecuting, said Mr Oliver had barred both men from the
Standard of England pub three or four years earlier.

When Mr Oliver went into the Boulevard, a pub in Radford Road, for a drink Smith
became aggressive.

He followed Mr Oliver outside, smashed his car windscreen and said: "Can you
remember me?" before attacking him with the hammer. Dinnall then joined in.

Mr Coupland said: "Mr Oliver thought he was going to die." He needed stitches to
head wounds and had bruises and cuts on his body.

William England, defending Dinnall, said the offence was wholly out of
character.

For Smith, Kate Hargreaves said her client accepted that what he did was totally
unacceptable.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1998 Nottingham Evening Post

                              215 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                               September 29, 1998

Court told sex attack left woman in terror

SECTION: Crime: Rape, Pg.3

LENGTH: 575 words


A WOMAN told a jury trial yesterday how an Elgin man assaulted and then
attempted to rape her when she wanted to end their volatile relationship.

Giving evidence at the High Court in Inverness, the 46-year-old woman said she
had tried to escape from James Milne by climbing out of her bedroom window.

But the court heard that Milne lunged at her, threw her on to her bed and
attempted to rape her.

After the alleged assault, she stumbled a mile to a friend's house for help,
before making her way to Dr Gray's Hospital in Elgin for treatment.

Milne, 47, described as a prisoner in Inverness, appeared in the High Court on
indictment yesterday. He denies attempting to rape and murder the woman over a
period of several hours at her house in Elgin on June 10 and 11 this year.

She had known the accused since last July and had gone to his house on the
morning of June 10 with shopping for him.

Questioned by advocate depute Raymond Docherty, QC, she said: "Our relationship
was platonic as far as I was concerned but Mr Milne had other ideas.

"We had a few drinks but nothing to make me intoxicated and he had the same."

After 4pm, the pair headed off to the woman's house to watch the World Cup
football match between Brazil and Scotland.

The woman, who previously had sexual relations with Milne, told him she wanted
their relationship to end.

"He went quiet and began constantly pacing backwards and forwards. He became
agitated and wouldn't sit down," she told the court.

"He kept disappearing to the kitchen where the alcohol was. He then stamped on
my video recorder to get my attention.

"He later seemed to quieten down and again was pacing backwards and forwards.

"I knew then that I wanted him to go. I knew that he had a violent
background."The court was told Milne then took a tape out of the video recorder
and lunged with it towards the woman, just missing her head.

She said: "I retreated into the bedroom and shut the door but he managed to push
it open. I fell to the floor and again the abuse continued and again I asked him
to go. Then the punching started."

She said Milne took hold of her ears and pushed her against the radiator.

"The room was spinning and I wasn't seeing clearly. I got up and there was blood
coming from my nose and mouth," she said.

"I was wearing a white T-shirt which he had ripped from my back. I put on
another shirt which was on the radiator."

The jury was told that Milne then lay in front of the bedroom door, preventing
her from leaving.

"He was pretending to sleep and had been making a snoring noise. I tried to
escape through the bedroom window but I had only got halfway out when he dragged
me back and threw me on to the bed.

The teacher continued: "I was bleeding quite heavily and was panicking because I
was in the room with this maniac."

She repeatedly warned Milne that her cries for help would soon alert neighbours
when he lay on top of her and tried to remove her clothing, the court heard.

The jury was yesterday shown photographs of the woman in hospital with bruises
on her legs, face and chest.

After Milne had left her house, she said he threatened to get her if he was
jailed.

Under cross-examination by Jack Davidson, QC, the woman admitted she had a
torrid and sexual relationship with the accused.The woman also said that she
prevented Milne from removing her clothes and no sexual intercourse took place.

The trial before Lord Prosser continues.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 1998 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              216 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                    September 30, 1998, Wednesday Edition 1

Firemen's gun attack terror

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 37

LENGTH: 194 words


   FIREMEN spoke today of their fear as they came under attack from yobs while
returning from a late call-out.

The crew believe someone could have been seriously hurt when a sniper fired an
air gun at them.

Blyth's Blue Watch fire officer, Peter Johnson, 36, suffered cuts to his arm and
hand after glass showered into the cabin.

Police said the incident was being treated as criminal damage and assault.

A police spokesman said: "Although nothing was found to confirm it the firemen
themselves think it might have been a pellet from an air weapon."

Acting sub-officer, Ian Bates, 43, said: "We were returning to the fire station
on Cowpen Road after attending a false alarm at Cramlington.

"When we got to the Beecher Street and John Street area, we heard a bang and saw
the glass come in. It was quite a shock at the time.

"The injured officer was lucky he was not hit in the face as he was leaning
forward to pick up the keys to unlock the station gates."

The shattered window of the appliance was repaired the day after the incident.

Fireman Johnson suffered cuts to his thumb and forearm but did not require
hospital treatment.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LUCKY ESCAPE - injured fireman, Peter Johnson, but he and colleagues
believe it could have been worse

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              217 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       October 2, 1998, Friday Edition 1

Terrorist attack exercise sparks Sellafield rethink - Secret report into mock
raid at nuclear plant

BYLINE: By Bill Wilson

SECTION: REGIONAL NEWS, Pg. 23

LENGTH: 435 words


   NEW guidelines have been introduced for security exercises at Sellafield,
after a secret police report into an exercise in which workers were held at
gunpoint.

Union chiefs at the BNFL plant in Cumbria are demanding compensation after armed
UK Atomic Energy Agency police startled staff by staging a mock terrorist
attack. A Cumbria Police report into the episode makes 11 recommendations - five
of them urging a greater planning role for the workforce.

The report is classified, but union leaders have been given the main
recommendations, which will be implemented by UKAEA police and BNFL to prevent
any repetition of the problems of the March exercise.

Then, a bulletin had been circulated warning BNFL workers that armed officers
would be on site. Staff say they weren't warned of the hostage-taking exercise,
designed to be as realistic as possible.

Some allege guns were pressed into them as they were ordered to drop to their
knees. Others were ordered to lie flat.

The officers, dressed in long black macs, carried rifles, which staff believed
to be loaded. In fact, there was no ammunition in them.

Now Sellafield workers will be warned of exercises and trade unions will help
oversee arrangements.

UKAEA officers are licensed to use firearms in defence of the site, which holds
plutonium, needed to make atomic bombs.

The biggest union at the plant, the GMB, is pressing for compensation for
workers subjected to "stress, trauma or inconvenience" during the exercise.

Sellafield GMB convenor John Kane said: "The recommendations mean there will be
a clear strategy in place from now on, including a full risk assessment of
possible hazards. Everybody will be taking part in future to make sure nothing
like this happens again.

"There has been a clear admission mistakes have been made, but we are pleased
with the response by the company.

"One of the big concerns was that the workforce was in the dark to some extent
about exactly what was going to happen at BNFL. Employees were shocked and even
frightened to suddenly find themselves confronted by shadowy figures with guns.

"We can understand the use of real firearms, but it wasn't until afterwards that
people found out they weren't loaded. In future it will be made clear there is
no live ammunition, but at the same time, the site will have an armed response
available."

At the time BNFL said the exercise was to test security.

A UKAEA spokesman said: "The recommendations have been taken on board and will
change the working practices for these exercises in the light of the lessons
learned."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              218 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                October 8, 1998

Attack nurse's terror ordeal

BYLINE: By Antony Stone

SECTION: Crime: ASSAULT, Pg.3

LENGTH: 310 words


AN OUT-GOING Swansea nurse turned into a recluse too frightened to shop in the
city alone after a former boyfriend's unprovoked attack.

The victim's husband Anthony Webb spoke for the first time today of the
nightmare ordeal his family has been forced to live.

Sarah Webb, aged 31, became too ill to work and feared leaving her Llansamlet
home following the daylight attack in the city's Kingsway subway.

The couple's three-year-old son, Christian, who saw his mother being attacked,
was traumatised by flashbacks for months.

A Swansea jury yesterday found her attacker, Michael Greenway, guilty of
grievous bodily harm following a three- day trial.

Greenway, aged 36, of King Edward Road, was warned he risked a jail term before
being freed on bail after the case was adjourned for sentencing.

Mr Webb said: "We are all delighted with the verdict because we all felt that it
was important the public knew this man was a danger to people.

"As a result of this Sarah had to go out and buy herself a personal alarm.

"She was unable to go into Swansea to shop by herself at all.

"She was severely affected by the attack which resulted in her taking time off
work. Christian suffered flashbacks," he said.

During the court case Mrs Webb told the jury of her shock when she was suddenly
confronted by Greenway last March who repeatedly punched her head.

They heard she became hysterical and tried to shield her son as blows from the
man, who had briefly been her boyfriend 12 years before, rained down on her.

He grabbed her by the neck as she screamed for him to leave her alone and
punched her several times to the head.

Greenway claimed that when he recognised her he had called her by her maiden
name at which point she became hysterical.

He said she tripped over a step and he tried to calm her down and banged her
head in the process.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 South Wales Evening Post

                              219 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 15, 1998

Teachers' terror of the four-year- olds;
Attack reports blame nursery and primary schoolchildren

BYLINE: Katrina Tweedie

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 498 words


SCOTTISH teachers have reported being assaulted by children as young as four, it
was revealed yesterday.

Formal complaints have been made about nursery and primary one children throwing
temper tantrums and nipping, kicking out and swearing.

But critics say teachers are simply caught up in a complaining culture and that
they should be able to handle these very young children. Parents groups
expressed dismay that small-scale incidents should be logged as attacks.

Judith Gillespie of the Scottish Parent Teachers Association, said: 'Young
children will sometimes do this, but it doesn't mean they are violent or
aggressive.

What small child does does not have a temper tantrum?' Education and council
leaders in Angus claim 15 attacks and threats took place in schools over a
three-month period.

Of the assaults recorded between April and August this year, six involved
primary or nursery pupils.

Angus Education Director, Jim Anderson, said: 'Some of these assaults are by
four or five-year olds.

'Clearly that is very different from being threatened by a 15 or 16-year-old. It
is still not acceptable, but perhaps it is not as threatening.' He continued:
'It suggests that these youngsters have not been properly socialised when they
first come to school. But usually, as they grow older, they become sorted out.'
Angus Provost Frances Duncan said she was shocked by the statistics. 'I am
concerned about the number. Teachers are under a lot of stress just in terms of
their everyday work.

'But these attacks are an added burden. I want to know what ages the pupils
involved are. We need to get this stamped out at an early stage.

'I am pleased the authority is taking a serious view before it gets out of hand
and is supportive of staff and the parents of other pupils.' But Judith
Gillespie said: 'Many parents are sending their children to school or nursery at
a younger age and many are too young to cope with it. Tantrums directed against
teachers could just be a sign that the child is not ready to be there.' She said
assaults by older pupils against teachers were a different and more serious
issue.

'In assaults that can be clearly identified, the police should be called in
immediately to deal with the matter,' she said.

Five of the reported assaults were by secondary pupils.

Mr Anderson s a i d : 'One incident is one too many. But what I think is
important is that in Angus we encourage teachers to report these incidents.

'On the surface the numbers of assaults are greater than before, but to get the
full picture you have got to dig a little bit deeper.

'We have said to teachers that if they think pupils' behaviour is in any way
threatening they should report it. This means that we now have a systematic way
of recording the number of assaults.' Jim Docherty, assistant general secretary
of the Scottish Secondary Teachers Union said: 'If attacks are happening at
nursery age then it is of major concern.'


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DISMAY: JUDITH GILLESPIE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              220 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      October 17, 1998, Saturday Edition 1

Terror attack

SECTION: TONIGHT, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 59 words


   ATTACKERS terrorised a couple at knifepoint and stole their BMW car. George
Doody, 78, and his wife Elsie, 80, were ambushed as they pulled on to their
drive. Michael O'Hara, 21, of Forrest Road, and John Howell, 20, of Lyndhurst
Terrace, both Sunderland, were jailed by Newcastle Crown Court for
four-and-a-half years after admitting robbery.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              221 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                October 18, 1998

World: Nato orders end to terror;
 West warns Milosevic: Don't think you can carry on with terror attacks. Chris
Bird in Pristina and Peter Beaumont report

BYLINE: CHRIS BIRD IN PRISTINA AND PETER BEAUMONT

SECTION: The Observer News Page; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 998 words


NEW EVIDENCE of Serb non-compliance with the peace deal for the war-weary
province of Kosovo emerged this weekend as Slobodan Milosevic was warned not to
mistake his 10-day extension to meet United Nations resolutions as 'a period of
grace' to go on attacking ethnic Albanians.

The warning was delivered by Nato Secretary-General Javier Solana last week as
he presented the Yugoslav President with a list of special forces units that the
West is demanding be withdrawn in the next week-and-a-half if he is to avoid
airstrikes.

Among them are the notorious black-uniformed SAJ anti-terrorist force and the
'Frankies' - commanded by Frankie Simatovic, head of operations for state
security - which have been running 'deniable' operations throughout the wars in
the former Yugoslavia.

According to Western intelligence analysts, Simatovic's forces in Kosovo have
included unemployed Bosnian Serbs, paid in deutschmarks to fight in Kosovo.

The involvement of Bosnian Serbs - although long denied by Belgrade - was given
apparent confirmation earlier this year when one of the armoured personnel
carriers stolen from the Dutch battalion at Srebrenica was pictured bulldozing
Kosovo houses.

The warning comes amid fears among Western governments that Milosevic is
planning to renege on his promises to Richard Holbrooke, US special envoy to the
Balkans, to withdraw all his forces before the new deadline.

One British official said: 'He'll hope that by lying doggo for the next week and
a half, political consensus to bomb will evaporate. He should understand that
the extension has not been given for his benefit, but to ensure we maintain
political consensus for airstrikes if necessary.'

One Foreign Office source added: 'Inevitably he is going to try to cheat. That
is why the verification process starting this weekend is so important. We don't
trust him further than we can spit.'

The renewal of the warning to Milosevic came as Foreign Secretary Robin Cook
spoke this weekend to his opposite numbers in France, Russia and the United
States about pushing for a 'more robust' Security Council resolution against the
Serb leader. Ethnic Albanians have warned that the current agreement is far from
satisfactory.

There is increasing evidence of attempts by Serb forces to evade their
commitments, despite Milosevic's promise yesterday that he would meet the troop
withdrawal deadline.

Near the village of Dragobil last week, a Serb commander complained that his
forces were coming under increasing attack from the Albanian secessionist KLA,
who killed one of his men and injured four others.

'Last night the Albanians came and shouted at our positions, "Go away Chetniks,
you're not fulfilling the ultimatum",' the commander said.  'But until they
agree the technical details on what Kosovo's police force should be,' he added
quietly, 'we will not withdraw from here.'

While Serb tanks and heavy weaponry are no longer visible - following the
departure of a convoy of 144 tanks and artillery seen driving towards the border
with Serbia yesterday - the police are still much in evidence.  In eerily
deserted ethnic Albanian villages, armed Serb police still sit in the smashed
houses on what furniture has not been destroyed or looted, or travel the roads
in unmarked cars. This weekend Nato aircraft charged with verifying Serb
compliance begin their overflights. They will be hard pushed to spot these men.

Holbrooke's 2,000 observers, or 'compliance verifiers' - to be deployed by the
Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe - have only to drive
through these villages and many of these police will simply melt away into the
charred timbers and smashed roofs until they leave again.

Their continued presence is terrifying the ethnic Albanians who are still
choosing to sleep out in the mountains, swathed in freezing mist, rather than
return and rebuild what is left of their homes.

In Marali, a village less than a mile away from the Serb commander's position,
29-year-old Nezhmiya Goshi was packing her tractor and trailer with her
belongings to escape from her home a second time. 'I thought it was safe to
return,' she said. But the heavy machine-gun fire that bit chunks out of roofs
and walls on Thursday night terrified her and her two young sons.

And there is a second problem, a new bitterness that is welling up among ethnic
Albanians. The peace deal to avert airstrikes on Serb targets was negotiated and
imposed over their heads. 'Serb forces have not left Kosovo, there has been
repositioning,' says Ibrahim Rugova, the ethnic Albanians' self -styled
President.

The ethnic Albanians have had few details of exactly what was agreed between
Milosevic and Holbrooke but the Albanian-language newspaper Kosova Sot stated
bluntly that the deal on self-government was unacceptable. The paper
acknowledged the considerable autonomy granted to the territory under the late
President Tito, but said the new 'agreement leaves Kosovo once again under Serb
control, with lower rights of self-administration than it had under the 1974
constitution'.

Isa Krasniqi, 48, looks after his wife Mejreme and seven children in a green
field in the village of Pagarusa, not far from Dragobil. The folded blankets and
rows of mattresses inside their tent of plastic sheeting and branches are a
picture of neatness. But Isa says the children are bitten by insects in the
straw bedding while an iron stove under a makeshift shelter of branches nearby
cannot safely be used to keep them warm at night.

His eyes dim as he explains that his children are unable to go to school. Much
of his home village of Ostrazub is a charred ruin, but Krasniqi said his home
would make better shelter than the tent.

'Despite the agreement on withdrawing Serb military forces, everyone who comes
here says the road is still full of police. We hear fighting every night. We
don't feel safe, so there is no way we will go back now.'


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              222 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 24, 1998, Saturday

Eco-terrorists' claim attack on Colorado ski resort

BYLINE: Giles Whittell in Los Angeles

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 253 words


A SERIES of fires that destroyed two buildings and a chairlift in America's
busiest ski resort was started by a radical environmental group founded six
years ago in Britain, it has emerged.

The Earth Liberation Front (Elf), which has claimed responsibility for the
mountaintop fires in Vail, Colorado, began as a splinter group formed during a
meeting of the better-known Earth First organisation in Brighton in 1992.

It is now the focus of a major manhunt in a worsening showdown between
"eco-terrorism" and big business in the US.

More than 70 federal agents, including two teams of arson investigators, have
descended on the town of Vail and its famous ski slopes west of Denver.

No suspects had been identified yesterday but a war of words was intensifying as
the resort vowed to open for business as usual when the snow comes, despite
suffering damage estimated at $ 12 million (about Pounds 7 million) .

"As long as it doesn't harm human lives, we approve," said Craig Rosebraugh, an
Oregon activist who released the Elf confession on Wednesday.

A spokeswoman for the group itself told the Denver Post yesterday that the group
had no membership list and that anyone committing non-violent acts against
perceived enemies of the environment was free to do so in the group's name.
Mainstream conservation groups, as well as Vail Resorts, have condemned the
fires, which were started with petrol and fire accelerants on an 11,500-ft peak
bordering a wilderness area on Sunday night.


LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              223 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                October 27, 1998

Firework attack terror
 Louts shove lit rocket through woman's letterbox

SECTION: Pg.5

LENGTH: 336 words


TEENY vandals left a woman fearing for her life after throwing a lighted
firework through her letterbox.

Horrified Susan Michie, of Portal Crescent, Tillydrone, was trapped upstairs
when she realised the rocket had landed in her hallway.

It exploded and filled the house with smoke, burning a hole in the carpet and
scorching a table.

Today her mum Maureen, who shares the house with her daughter and who was out at
the time, said luckily the firework landed under a table ... otherwise the
consequences could have been tragic.

With just nine days to go before Bonfire Night Maureen warned other folk to
watch out for lighted fireworks through their letterboxes.

The incident happened around 9pm on Sunday night when Mrs Michie was working at
Pitfodels Residential Home.

Her daughter Susan, 28, had just finished her bath when she heard a noise
downstairs. As she came out of the bathroom she was met by a wall of smoke as
the rocket exploded.

The terrified woman was trapped upstairs. As she frantically called the police
the smoke cleared and she realised there was no fire.

"All she could see was black smoke," said Maureen.

"Susan was lucky because the firework got caught under a table and that's where
it exploded.

"If it hadn't the whole house could have burned down with Susan trapped at the
top of the stairs.

"She phoned me and was in a real state - she got the shock of her life. We have
elderly people living nearby and one of them has a weak heart. If it had
happened to them it could have been fatal.

"The police told me to seal up my letter box every night and undo it during the
day, but that's not convenient."

Mrs Michie said the police had been given the names of several children - one as
young as eight - who she believed were responsible.

A spokeswoman for Grampian Police said inquiries were continuing.

v TILLYDRONE ATTACK: Maureen Michie's home could have been set alight after
someone pushed a lighted Guy Fawkes rocket through her letterbox. Picture by
MIKE STEPHEN

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              224 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                October 28, 1998

Post bosses tell of Woofie terror
 Doomed dog attacked worker

SECTION: Animals: Domestic, Pg.2

LENGTH: 377 words


CONDEMNED mutt Woofie may not be the cuddly, loving pet she is made out to be,
it was claimed today.

Royal Mail chiefs have revealed they warned the dog's owners on a number of
occasions after the three-year-old bitch terrorised Peterhead posties.

But they added they did everything they could to keep the doomed dog out of the
courts.

The cross breed collie has been sentenced to death under the Dangerous Dogs Act
following an attack on a postman earlier this year.

And today - as messages of support flooded in for the dog on death row - the
Royal Mail denied it is responsible for Woofie's plight.

Owners Terry and Anne Swankie, of Roanheads, Peterhead, say Woofie merely barked
and growled at their local postman.

But that claim is denied by Royal Mail. A spokesman said: "The dog jumped
through a window and pinned a postman against a wall while he was making a
delivery.

"It was a serious incident, to the extent that the postman was forced to defend
himself with his bike. Royal Mail workers, and several other people, had been
chased and harassed by this dog before the incident in April.

"At one stage it got so bad we had to make all our deliveries to the house next
door to protect our staff.

"We brought this to the owner's attention on a number of occasions, and even
sent them an information pack on how to avoid these problems, but the situation
didn't improve.

"The court action against the owners and the dog was nothing to do with us. The
police brought the charge and it is a matter for them and the courts," said the
spokesman.

He added that around 470 Scots mail workers are bitten every year by dogs, and
there had been a long-running problem with Woofie.

The Swankies' English-based lawyer Trevor Cooper said the family had received
hundreds of messages of support.

He is bidding to save Woofie's life with a last-ditch appeal at the High Court
in Edinburgh.

"This has stirred up a great deal of interest, and people have been very
sympathetic to Woofie's case," he said.

"The High Court has assured me that a decision on whether to grant leave to
appeal will be made early next week.

"If our application is turned down then Woofie will be put down, if it is
granted then we will get a hearing within three weeks."

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              225 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                October 30, 1998

Terror attack man's plight

BYLINE: By Nicola Porter

SECTION: Courts: MAGISTRATES, Pg.5

LENGTH: 315 words


A HAMMER-WIELDING man who terrorised his neighbour had been cast adrift by the
health service, his solicitor told Swansea magistrates yesterday.

Paul Wilson said he was disappointed there was no long-term psychiatric help
available to his client.

Phillip Richard Foster, aged 49, terrorised his next door neighbour in two
unprovoked attacks.

He has been in custody since July and yesterday magistrates took the unusual
step of remanding him in custody for a further seven days so more psychiatric
assessments could take place.

The court said they were considering putting Foster on probation but needed to
know more psychiatric help was on offer than at present.

Mr Wilson, defending, said: "I think I am as disappointed as you that there is
not more help available from the health services.

"My client appears to have been cast adrift by the health services and
sentencing options are now not satisfactory."

Log

Christine Jones, prosecuting, said mother-of-five Mary Evans thought Foster, of
The Promenade, Mount Pleasant, was going to attack her with a log in her Mount
Pleasant home last July.

In an irrational outburst he accused the family of stealing items from his home
and told them this was their last chance.

The following day Foster returned, this time causing more than GBP 700 worth of
damage to the rear of Mr and Mrs Evans's home as he attempted to enter the house
for a second time with a hammer.

Foster admitted criminal damage and affray.

Paul Wilson, defending, said that after the outcomes of two separate psychiatric
reports the only help his client would receive under a probation order was one
or possibly two out-patient appointments at Cefn Coed Hospital.

Magistrates also ordered that Gwalia Housing should be contacted and alternative
accommodation found to prevent the 49-year-old from eventually returning to live
next door to his victims.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 South Wales Evening Post

                              226 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      October 31, 1998, Saturday Edition 1

Sex attacker terrorised girl

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 164 words


   A PSYCHOLOGIST terrorised a Tyneside student after calling to view a room for
rent in her home.

Peter Binkhuysen answered a newspaper advert for the accommodation near
Newcastle University.

But just moments after arriving to see the room, he told his stunned victim he
wanted sex, tried to kiss her, and molested her.

The student, who was revising for her finals, suffered a 45-minute ordeal before
Binkhuysen finally left.

She told Newcastle Crown Court: "I couldn't believe it was happening. I was
panicking and in shock."

Binkhuysen, 39, of Shieldfield Green, Newcastle, denied indecent assault but was
found guilty at the end of a two-day trial.

Sentence was adjourned for psychiatric reports and he was remanded in custody.

Dutchman Binkhuysen told the court he had a Masters degree in psychology from a
top university in his homeland and had travelled to the North East two years ago
after working on a project to help people with a fear of flying.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              227 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 31, 1998, Saturday

SCREWDRIVER STABBING WAS SO BAD GIVING BIRTH COULD HAVE KILLED ME;
 EX -WPC LESLIE RELIVES MADMAN'S TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Charlotte Kemp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12, 13

LENGTH: 1332 words


EVERY day thousands of police officers risk their lives in the line of duty.
Some make the ultimate sacrifice and are killed while others are injured or
maimed for life.

Six years ago Leslie Harrison was stabbed through the heart while trying to
arrest a burglar.

But the police force still refuse to introduce more body armour. Here Leslie
relives her ordeal and tells of her anger that the lives of officers are still
put in danger:

LESLIE Harrison's life is a picture of happiness and normality as her two young
children rush to greet her.

Only when the former police officer bends down to pick up her daughter Rebecca
and son Andrew is there any hint of the agony she must endure.

She winces with pain - a never-ending reminder that six years ago she was on
death's door with horrendous stab wounds inflicted by a crazed burglar
brandishing a screwdriver.

Her injuries were so severe doctors gave her just a MINUTE to live when she
arrived at hospital. Thanks to their brilliance Leslie survived.

But not only did she have to give up the job she loved, her heart was weakened
to such an extent she risked her life having one baby - let alone two.

She still bears the massive scars from her stomach to her chest where surgeons
opened her up in a desperate battle to save her life.

Yet words like brave, gusty or courageous don't wash with Leslie.

She says of the stabbing by madman Stephen Doyle: "I was just trying to do my
job."

But the attack has clearly changed her. Once an invincible young police officer,
Leslie describes herself as "more timid and far less confident" than she was.

Leslie, 35, adds: "When it first happened, I went through a very low patch. I
used to cry all the time for no reason and it just wasn't me.

"For weeks, I used to have the same dream. It was never directly about the
attack but I was always the one who was injured, unable to help anyone else."

There are glimpses of the old Leslie when she laughs. Attractive and vivacious,
she still displays the same determination and enthusiasm which made her such a
popular and effective police officer.

But her ambition has gone. She says: "If the attack hadn't happened, I don't
think I would be here at home with the children full time.

"I was never madly ambitious but I loved my job and I wanted to become a
sergeant one day. I probably would have carried on as I was, juggling family
with my work.

"When I realised I would never be able to go back, I knew I had to find
something else to fill the void.

"Having Rebecca and Andrew has transformed my life. I am a completely different
person."

Apart from the scars, the only other reminder of her ordeal is a scrapbook
filled with newspaper cuttings.

Leslie says: "I am going to show them to the children one day. I want them to
understand why their mummy can't do things.

"I take painkillers but some mornings, my chest feels so tight I find it hard to
breathe.

"I can't do half of the things I used to. Before this happened, I was incredibly
fit, always have been.

I think that was one of the reasons why I survived.

"Leading a sedentary life has been one of the biggest sacrifices for me. In the
past, exercising was an outlet for my frustrations. Now I can feel it all
building up."

Leslie can still recall every vivid detail of the night on December 27, 1992,
when her life was so nearly cut short.

She was in a patrol car with colleague WPC Ruth Polhill when a message came over
the radio that a burglary was in progress.

Leslie says: "We bombed it to the scene and happened to be the first to arrive.

"Ruth cornered him and saw he was carrying a screwdriver and a knife.  He was
running towards me and when he got within reach of me, he brought his right arm
towards me. It felt like a punch to my side and I was winded.

"I hit him with my radio but he was uncontrollable and hit me again and got
away."

Grievously wounded, Leslie chased the burglar for 150 yards through four streets
until she cornered him and radioed for help.

She says: "I was running but I wasn't catching up. I just felt drained of all
energy.

"I saw him hide behind a van and I thought 'I've got to stop'. When I lifted up
my jumper, my skirt was covered in blood. It was then I realised I had been
stabbed.

"As I lay there I felt myself getting weaker. Ruth arrived and I told her to
phone my partner Barry to tell him what has happened. We had only been seeing
each other for 18 months.

"Then I just kept thinking 'it's not my time to go yet. I don't want to die'."

Before slipping into unconsciousness, Leslie, from Warrington, Cheshire, turned
to Ruth and said: "I think I'm dying."

She says: "It was such an ordinary day and it could have been my last.  I think
that is what I found the most shocking."

She was rushed to the Royal Liverpool Hospital. At first, it appeared she had
suffered abdominal wounds but Doyle had thrust the screwdriver upwards,
puncturing her heart.

Leslie spent two days on a life-support machine, six days in intensive care and
a total of two weeks in hospital.

The attack sparked a fierce debate about the price paid by the introduction of
equality in the police force.

But Leslie is adamant she wasn't stabbed because she was a woman. She was
stabbed because she was a police officer unable to defend herself.

She says: "What happened that night had nothing to do with my sex. Stephen Doyle
didn't even realise I was a woman.

"Never for a minute did I think I would be putting my life at risk.

"I was always quick to dive in because I wanted to be like one of the lads. But
that is what is expected of you in the modern force and I wouldn't have wanted
it to be any other way.

"The only thing I could use to defend myself was my radio. At that time, the
baton women carried was neither use nor ornament. It was handbag- sized and
useless." As Leslie lay fighting for her life, thousands of cards arrived from
well-wishers.

She says: "The response was amazing. I even got get well cards from some of the
cons I had helped convict. They, like everyone else, were outraged a woman
police officer had been attacked."

In March 1994, Doyle was jailed for 15 years for the attack. He was also found
guilty of attempting to wound three other police officers and a taxi driver.

Last October the memories of Leslie's nightmare at the hands of Doyle came
flooding back when she heard that WPC Nina Mackay was stabbed to death in East
London after taking off her body armour to arrest a suspect.

Leslie says: "So many changes were promised after what happened to me.  They
brought in protective vests but the Government wouldn't splash out on the
expensive ones so they were heavy and cumbersome.

"I can completely understand why Nina took hers off. She wouldn't have been able
to get through the door. It must have been restricting her.

"Nina's death should never have happened. Today it's impossible to tell what
weapons a criminal may have. If police can't protect themselves, it's an unfair
fight."

DESPITE her horrific injuries, Leslie has no regrets about joining the police.

She says "It is an exciting, varied career. I loved every minute of it, the
adrenaline, the power, the respect.

"I met some incredible people during that time and that gives me faith in human
nature.

"Men like Doyle are in the minority. But he highlights the need to protect the
police so that they can get on and do their job.

"Changes have been introduced. I am glad some good came out of my experience."

As she speaks, two-year-old Rebecca and Andrew, 18 months, toddle into the
four-bedroom house Leslie shares with them and Barry in a quiet suburb.

The scene is a far cry from the days Leslie patrolled the mean streets fighting
crime.

And, thankfully, it's a far cry from the scene that might have been had she
arrived a minute later in casualty on that dreadful night six years ago.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCARS: Leslie in hospital after attack;; HAPPY FAMILY: Leslie, Barry
and the couple's two children Rebecca and; Andrew at home Picture: DENNIS
HUSSEY;; PROUD: Leslie as police officer

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              228 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 31, 1998, Saturday

SCREWDRIVER STABBING WAS SO BAD GIVING BIRTH COULD HAVE KILLED ME;
 EX -WPC LESLIE RELIVES MADMAN'S TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Charlotte Kemp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12, 13

LENGTH: 1332 words


EVERY day thousands of police officers risk their lives in the line of duty.
Some make the ultimate sacrifice and are killed while others are injured or
maimed for life.

Six years ago Leslie Harrison was stabbed through the heart while trying to
arrest a burglar.

But the police force still refuse to introduce more body armour. Here Leslie
relives her ordeal and tells of her anger that the lives of officers are still
put in danger:

LESLIE Harrison's life is a picture of happiness and normality as her two young
children rush to greet her.

Only when the former police officer bends down to pick up her daughter Rebecca
and son Andrew is there any hint of the agony she must endure.

She winces with pain - a never-ending reminder that six years ago she was on
death's door with horrendous stab wounds inflicted by a crazed burglar
brandishing a screwdriver.

Her injuries were so severe doctors gave her just a MINUTE to live when she
arrived at hospital. Thanks to their brilliance Leslie survived.

But not only did she have to give up the job she loved, her heart was weakened
to such an extent she risked her life having one baby - let alone two.

She still bears the massive scars from her stomach to her chest where surgeons
opened her up in a desperate battle to save her life.

Yet words like brave, gusty or courageous don't wash with Leslie.

She says of the stabbing by madman Stephen Doyle: "I was just trying to do my
job."

But the attack has clearly changed her. Once an invincible young police officer,
Leslie describes herself as "more timid and far less confident" than she was.

Leslie, 35, adds: "When it first happened, I went through a very low patch. I
used to cry all the time for no reason and it just wasn't me.

"For weeks, I used to have the same dream. It was never directly about the
attack but I was always the one who was injured, unable to help anyone else."

There are glimpses of the old Leslie when she laughs. Attractive and vivacious,
she still displays the same determination and enthusiasm which made her such a
popular and effective police officer.

But her ambition has gone. She says: "If the attack hadn't happened, I don't
think I would be here at home with the children full time.

"I was never madly ambitious but I loved my job and I wanted to become a
sergeant one day. I probably would have carried on as I was, juggling family
with my work.

"When I realised I would never be able to go back, I knew I had to find
something else to fill the void.

"Having Rebecca and Andrew has transformed my life. I am a completely different
person."

Apart from the scars, the only other reminder of her ordeal is a scrapbook
filled with newspaper cuttings.

Leslie says: "I am going to show them to the children one day. I want them to
understand why their mummy can't do things.

"I take painkillers but some mornings, my chest feels so tight I find it hard to
breathe.

"I can't do half of the things I used to. Before this happened, I was incredibly
fit, always have been.

I think that was one of the reasons why I survived.

"Leading a sedentary life has been one of the biggest sacrifices for me. In the
past, exercising was an outlet for my frustrations. Now I can feel it all
building up."

Leslie can still recall every vivid detail of the night on December 27, 1992,
when her life was so nearly cut short.

She was in a patrol car with colleague WPC Ruth Polhill when a message came over
the radio that a burglary was in progress.

Leslie says: "We bombed it to the scene and happened to be the first to arrive.

"Ruth cornered him and saw he was carrying a screwdriver and a knife.  He was
running towards me and when he got within reach of me, he brought his right arm
towards me. It felt like a punch to my side and I was winded.

"I hit him with my radio but he was uncontrollable and hit me again and got
away."

Grievously wounded, Leslie chased the burglar for 150 yards through four streets
until she cornered him and radioed for help.

She says: "I was running but I wasn't catching up. I just felt drained of all
energy.

"I saw him hide behind a van and I thought 'I've got to stop'. When I lifted up
my jumper, my skirt was covered in blood. It was then I realised I had been
stabbed.

"As I lay there I felt myself getting weaker. Ruth arrived and I told her to
phone my partner Barry to tell him what has happened. We had only been seeing
each other for 18 months.

"Then I just kept thinking 'it's not my time to go yet. I don't want to die'."

Before slipping into unconsciousness, Leslie, from Warrington, Cheshire, turned
to Ruth and said: "I think I'm dying."

She says: "It was such an ordinary day and it could have been my last.  I think
that is what I found the most shocking."

She was rushed to the Royal Liverpool Hospital. At first, it appeared she had
suffered abdominal wounds but Doyle had thrust the screwdriver upwards,
puncturing her heart.

Leslie spent two days on a life-support machine, six days in intensive care and
a total of two weeks in hospital.

The attack sparked a fierce debate about the price paid by the introduction of
equality in the police force.

But Leslie is adamant she wasn't stabbed because she was a woman. She was
stabbed because she was a police officer unable to defend herself.

She says: "What happened that night had nothing to do with my sex. Stephen Doyle
didn't even realise I was a woman.

"Never for a minute did I think I would be putting my life at risk.

"I was always quick to dive in because I wanted to be like one of the lads. But
that is what is expected of you in the modern force and I wouldn't have wanted
it to be any other way.

"The only thing I could use to defend myself was my radio. At that time, the
baton women carried was neither use nor ornament. It was handbag- sized and
useless." As Leslie lay fighting for her life, thousands of cards arrived from
well-wishers.

She says: "The response was amazing. I even got get well cards from some of the
cons I had helped convict. They, like everyone else, were outraged a woman
police officer had been attacked."

In March 1994, Doyle was jailed for 15 years for the attack. He was also found
guilty of attempting to wound three other police officers and a taxi driver.

Last October the memories of Leslie's nightmare at the hands of Doyle came
flooding back when she heard that WPC Nina Mackay was stabbed to death in East
London after taking off her body armour to arrest a suspect.

Leslie says: "So many changes were promised after what happened to me.  They
brought in protective vests but the Government wouldn't splash out on the
expensive ones so they were heavy and cumbersome.

"I can completely understand why Nina took hers off. She wouldn't have been able
to get through the door. It must have been restricting her.

"Nina's death should never have happened. Today it's impossible to tell what
weapons a criminal may have. If police can't protect themselves, it's an unfair
fight."

DESPITE her horrific injuries, Leslie has no regrets about joining the police.

She says "It is an exciting, varied career. I loved every minute of it, the
adrenaline, the power, the respect.

"I met some incredible people during that time and that gives me faith in human
nature.

"Men like Doyle are in the minority. But he highlights the need to protect the
police so that they can get on and do their job.

"Changes have been introduced. I am glad some good came out of my experience."

As she speaks, two-year-old Rebecca and Andrew, 18 months, toddle into the
four-bedroom house Leslie shares with them and Barry in a quiet suburb.

The scene is a far cry from the days Leslie patrolled the mean streets fighting
crime.

And, thankfully, it's a far cry from the scene that might have been had she
arrived a minute later in casualty on that dreadful night six years ago.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCARS: Leslie in hospital after attack;; HAPPY FAMILY: Leslie, Barry
and the couple's two children Rebecca and; Andrew at home Picture: DENNIS
HUSSEY;; PROUD: Leslie as police officer

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              229 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            November 2, 1998, Monday

Air stewardess tells of attack terror on flight

BYLINE: Russell Jenkins

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 567 words


AN AIR stewardess yesterday described the moment of horror when she believed
that a drunken passenger was going to kill her.

Fiona Weir, 31, broke down in tears as she recalled the attack at the end of a
night flight from Gatwick to Malaga last Thursday. The stewardess, from
Wimbledon, southwest London, who has worked for Airtours International for six
years, had a broken vodka bottle smashed over her left ear and suffered blows to
her head, back and arms.

Her face still severely bruised and her arm in bandages, she described the
attack as one of the worst of its kind, but said that it was in line with
declining standards of behaviour among airline passengers in recent years.

Steven Handy, 37, from Dover, has been bailed by a Spanish judge over the
attack.

Ms Weir said: "What I really remember is the vicious look in his eyes. He was
only stopped because passengers managed to wrest the bottle out of his grasp.
One was cut on his hand doing it.

"I felt he was going to kill me. I was cornered in the confined space of an
aircraft and he wasn't going to stop. That was probably the most frightening
thing. Everything happened as if in slow motion.

"The bottle, full of neat vodka, was smashed over my head. I turned and that is
when I remember hearing it smash. I thought that would be it - one blow and he
would stop. It felt like he hit me four or five times with the broken bottle."

Ms Weir was flanked by executives from Airtours International as she gave a
press conference at a hotel near Manchester airport. She sat next to her
husband, Spencer Ahluwalia, who works in the City.

She is able to hide the deep bruises down the left side of her face behind her
long hair. Surgeons have picked shards of glass from her head, back and arms and
an X-ray has revealed that there will be no permanent damage.

Ms Weir believes that airlines must act now to ban troublemakers. "Other
airlines have had situations like this but this has got to be one of the worst
anybody has ever heard of. I really cannot believe it happened to me.

"I have been flying for six years. I have dealt with a lot of drunken and
disorderly passengers."

After being released by the judge, Mr Handy suggested that the stewardess had
brought the attack on herself by being aggressive. Mr Handy emerged from the
court hearing dressed in a dirty tracksuit and wearing only one shoe.

"She asked me to sit down but I didn't like the way she said it. She was
aggressive so I did her. If someone starts on me I'll go for them, even if it's
a woman," he said. "I get drunk a lot but I'm not a violent person. If I bumped
into her I would say sorry but so should she. She should learn to respect
people."

Mr Handy had apparently been drinking heavily and was immediately recognised as
a potentially troublesome passenger. Ms Weir had been told that he should not be
served with alcohol and could not smoke during the flight.

"He raised the bottle and hit across my head which stunned me and I fell to the
floor. I remember I put my hand up which is why I got these stitches," she said.

"I was screaming for somebody to help. I cowered down trying to protect my head
and he continued to bash the bottle on my back."

Mr Handy, who has not technically been charged with any offence, has been
accused by Spanish police of common assault and assaulting a police officer.


LOAD-DATE: November 2, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              230 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                November 5, 1998

Terror at doorstep attacker
 Man fled from neighbour

BYLINE: By Terry Crockford

SECTION: Courts: MAGISTRATES, Pg.17

LENGTH: 225 words


A TERRIFIED man ran from his home screaming for help after being butted and
punched by his neighbour.

His attacker later told police the man was getting on his nerves so he just
knocked on the door and hit him.

John Lewis was left with a black eye, bleeding nose, scratched face and cuts
inside his mouth at the assault in November of last year.

Prosecutor Christine Jones told Swansea magistrates how Mr Lewis had answered a
knock on his door and been confronted by neighbour Lee Kiley.

He immediately tried to slam the door, injuring his foot in the process but
Kiley grabbed him by the T-shirt and subjected him to a barrage of blows.

"He was petrified and in fear for his safety," Miss Jones told the court.

"He ran out of the cul-de-sac shouting and screaming and calling for someone to
call the police," she said.

"He says he is not a fighting man and was scared out of his wits."

Mr Lewis dashed from his home in Llangwm, Penplas, and was given refuge by a
woman living nearby.

Amphetamine

On his arrest, 25-year-old Kiley admitted butting and punching Mr Lewis.

The court heard how police found a small quantity of amphetamine on him during a
search.

Sentence on Kiley, who admits assault by beating, drugs possession and failing
to answer bail, was adjourned until November 26 to allow time for reports to be
prepared.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 South Wales Evening Post

                              231 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                                November 6, 1998

The Bishop of Truro will warn today that extremists could launch terrorist
attacks in a violent campaign for a Cornish Assembly.

SECTION: Pg.8

LENGTH: 198 words


The Right Rev William Ind warned people could start "blowing things up".

because they felt their views were not being heard.

And a woman claiming to represent the Cornish Liberation Army also told BBC
Radio 4's Today programme that Government buildings could be targeted if demands
for an Assembly were not taken seriously.

Warning of violent attacks, the Rt Rev Ind told the programme: "I just have this
feeling that that is for some of them the level of frustration which they are
beginning to feel.

"If you live in this county you can't go very far without seeing quarries, even
now, still in use.

"And these people know how to explode things and they're around and in private
they will talk like that."

The woman claiming to represent the Cornish Liberation Army warned of "a certain
amount of destruction taking place".

She said: "Damage will be inflicted either through explosion or fire. Nobody's
listening to us, they will not listen until there is a bang somewhere."

But Andrew George, Liberal Democrat MP for St Ives, warned that hopes for
millions of pounds in extra regional aid from the EU could be jeopardised by any
extremist activity.

end

060613 NOV 98

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1998 Express & Echo

                              232 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            November 9, 1998, Monday

I THOUGHT CRAZED FRENCH WERE OUT TO KILL ME;
Terror attack on Scots rugby ref

BYLINE: Roddy Duncan

SECTION: Page 40

LENGTH: 330 words


SCOTTISH rugby referee Eddie Murray yesterday told of his terror as he tried to
dodge crazed French players and fans who were after his blood.

Murray was in charge of Saturday's flashpoint European Cup clash in Wales
between Ebbw Vale and Toulouse which erupted in violence on and off the pitch as
the French side slumped to a shock 19-11 defeat.

The Greenock-based match official, along with Scots touch-judges Rob Dickson and
Kenny McCartney, needed a police escort to their changing room as raging
Toulouse players and supporters tried to get to them.

Murray said: "It was not my first taste of trouble in this part of the world -
but this was certainly the most frightening.

"There seems to be a formula which reads 'Welsh team plus French team plus Eddie
Murray equals trouble!'

"Apart from the surprise result, it was a game packed with of incidents.

"There were six yellow cards and I had to send off one of the Toulouse props,
Christophe Vanchiri, for stamping.

"In addition, I awarded Ebbw Vale a penalty try - and disallowed one for the
French team.

"The real hassle, though, started at the final whistle and for the rest of our
time at the stadium we had to be surrounded by police and security guards.

"Even they were being assaulted by the French players and fans.

"As we walked off the pitch we could see French fans trying to jump down from
the front row to try to get to us.

"Then they started battering on the changing room door - and while this was
going on, there were fights outside between French and Welsh fans."

Murray won't press charges but will give evidence at a disciplinary hearing in
Dublin later this week.

He said: "The whole attitude of Toulouse was shocking. Having won the first
match by 100 points, they sent over half a team - and obviously thought they
would stroll it again.

"They certainly didn't like the idea of losing."

Dickson added: "A club can't be allowed to get away with this sort of
behaviour."


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1998 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              233 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      November 10, 1998, Tuesday Edition 1

United fans tell of terror attack by soccer yobs -;
Two in hospital after gang starts unprovoked assault on group of Newcastle
supporters

BYLINE: By MILES STARFORTH

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 302 words


   TERRIFIED soccer fans told today how they were caught up in violence before
Newcastle United's clash at Old Trafford.

Two Magpies supporters were taken to hospital after scenes before the match
outside a pub on the outskirts of Manchester.

Trip organiser Bill Swift was treated in hospital for a head wound.

The 47-year-old sales manager, of Birtley, had been drinking in the Cross Keys
pub in Eccles along with more than 100 other Newcastle supporters.

The father-of-three said: "I came out of the pub to get someone's ticket from a
coach and saw a large group of fans who weren't wearing football shirts.

"They saw me and some other Newcastle fans and I was attacked with a pool cue.
They got other people as they left the bar.

"It's just not the kind of thing you expect these days - I thought hooliganism
was a thing of the past. These people weren't real football supporters."

Witness Vince Edes, 33, of Birmingham, said: "There was a group of about 100 of
them.

"It looked planned and was completely unprovoked by the Newcastle fans, who
included a lot of youngsters."

Some fans were locked inside the pub for their own safety by the landlady who
saw locals gathering outside and contacted police.

Premier Coaches of Blyth had two vehicles damaged in the brawl.

Company partner Steve Elliot said: "The damage is likely to run into thousands.

"The coaches had windows put through and unfortunately incidents things like
this force us to reconsider taking football parties."

A spokesman for Greater Manchester Police said: "A number of Newcastle and
Manchester United supporters were involved and on the arrival of the police the
situation calmed down.

"Two Newcastle fans were injured and taken to hospital. No arrests were made but
inquiries are continuing. "

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CLEARING UP - Paul Fuller of Premier Coaches starts the job of
repairing a vehicle damaged in the weekend attack by Manchester United fans

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              234 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 10, 1998

Raiders terrorise couple ;82-year-old attacked with pitchfork after waking to
find masked gang in bedroom

BYLINE: Cameron Simpson

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 476 words


THREE masked men subjected an elderly couple to a terrifying ordeal early
yesterday after they broke into their farmhouse near Torrance, on the outskirts
of Glasgow.

One of the couple's sons, Labour councillor Ron McInally who sits on the police
board, said it was only by "God's grace" that one of his parents had not died in
the raid.

Charles McInally, 82, and his 73-year-old wife Edith were asleep in the bedroom
of their flat at West Carlston Farm which adjoins the family garden centre when
they were disturbed at 3am by two masked men coming through the bedroom window.

Mr McInally got out of bed and challenged the men, one of whom was armed with a
pitchfork. The other intruder was armed with what is believed to be a knife.

Mr McInally collapsed after being struck by the pitchfork on the head and body.
His wife was not injured.

Their son Mr Norman McInally, 50, who was asleep in a bedroom nearby, heard the
disturbance and went to his parents' bedroom where he too was struck with the
pitchfork.

At this point a third masked man appeared and the three then tied up Mr McInally
and his son. They then fled from the house, leaving empty-handed.

Mr Ron McInally, 51, a councillor with East Dunbartonshire Council and who owns
the farmhouse, was alerted by his two Alsatian guard dogs.

He initially thought the intruders had broken into his part of the house and not
his parents' flat. He eventually made his way to his parents' bedroom where he
discovered his injured father and brother and his mother in a very distressed
state.

Mr McInally said he believed the raiders were after the takings from the garden
centre and had mistaken the flat for his part of the house.

He said: "But if you want to do that you don't do it in November. This is our
quietest time of year. There's very little cash, not only because of the time of
year, but because most sales are electronic. Any cash we take we take off the
premises immediately."

Mr McInally said it was down to luck that no-one had died . "The shock alone
could have killed my parents."

He added: "I hope that someone's conscience is pricking them enough to inform on
these people."

Mr McInally snr and his son Norman were taken to Stobhill Hospital, Glasgow,
where the pensioner was treated for head and body injuries before being allowed
home. His son suffered bruising but did not require treatment.

The man leading the hunt for the raiders, Detective Sergeant John Wiggans, of
Kirkintilloch CID, said: "This was a horrific ordeal for the McInally family and
in particular the elderly couple. It is believed that the motive for this crime
was robbery but due to Mr McInally's intervention the culprits fled
empty-handed.

"Anyone who has any information which could assist in this inquiry is asked to
telephone me on 0141 532 4400."

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              235 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 14, 1998, Saturday

Terror attacks on Koreans rise in Japan

BYLINE: Richard Lloyd Parry in Tokyo

SECTION: NEWS; Page 18

LENGTH: 601 words


LATE LAST summer, a Korean girl named Kwon Woo Min was walking home from school
in western Tokyo when a middle-aged man struck her on the head with an umbrella,
and rode quickly away on his bicycle.

A few minutes later, as she waited at the railway station another man spat on
her. The next day, a Korean school in Tokyo received anonymous phone calls from
a man who threatened to kidnap a pupil, strip her and dump her on a river bank.

Dozens more threatening calls were made over the next few days - razor blades
were sent through the post, and Korean schools in Japan went into a panic after
someone rang the General Association of Korean Residents claiming to have put
cyanide in a school water tank.

For the past two and half months Korean Japanese have been taunted, shoved, spat
on, threatened, stabbed and even murdered. The majority of the victims have been
young girls, travelling to and from school in traditional Korean dress.

There are about 650,000 ethnic Koreans living in Japan and since the early part
of the century they have suffered prejudice and occasional violence. This month
a United Nations human rights panel listed discrimination against Koreans as one
of 30 areas of concern in Japan. But things have rarely been as bad as they are
now.

"People feel fearful and scared, but also very angry," said So Chung On, of the
General Association, known in Japan as Chosen Soren. "When the situation on the
Korean peninsula is tense, when Japan propagates hostility against North Korea,
people act on these false allegations, and they victimise people who cannot
resist. They aim at schoolchildren, schoolgirls who cannot resist.  It is very
nasty."

The latest wave of attacks has a very particular cause - the launch by North
Korea of a long-range rocket through the skies high above northern Japan on 31
August. It was initially identified by the American military as a ballistic
missile; Pyongyang insisted that it was a civilian rocket bearing a small
satellite into orbit. Either way, it was a shock to the Japanese who knew
nothing of the rocket's existence until after it had plunged into the sea.
Sanctions were imposed and the next day, the attacks on the schoolgirls began.

There were 33 separate incidents in September. Last week, petrol bombs were
thrown into the Tokyo and Yokohama offices of Chosen Soren. A month ago an
official on night duty in the Chiba city branch died after being beaten,
strangled, stabbed, soaked in petrol and set alight. The police at first
appeared reluctant to acknowledge a political motivation, insisting the killing
was part of a botched burglary.

There have been no arrests, although most believe the culprits are members of
Japanese right-wing organisations, who regularly parade through the streets,
waving Rising Sun flags and blaring martial music.

Leaders of the Chosen Soren are senior members of the Workers' Party and, as the
de facto North Korean embassy in Tokyo, it is also believed to channel money
from Korean businessmen in Japan to the government in Pyongyang.

In 1994, there were similar attacks during the nuclear crisis when Pyongyang was
suspected of developing nuclear weapons. Then, as now, the victims were
schoolgirls whose uniform consists of the Korean national costume, a skirt and
short jacket called chima chogori. "Even if we don't know whether North Korea
launched a missile or a satellite, it should take responsibility for causing
anxiety," said Kim Yong, a Korean mother.  "But what did Korean schools do?
What does it have to do with young children?"


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              236 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 18, 1998, Wednesday

GARDA RELIVES TERROR ATTACK;
 OFFICER FEARED FOR LIFE DURING BIG MATCH BEATING

BYLINE: Neil Leslie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 345 words


A GARDA who had to quit the force following a beating he received outside Croke
Park has launched a legal battle for compensation.

Phillip Purcell was attacked while policing a top GAA clash between Armagh and
Meath four years ago.

The 45-year-old, from Glasnevin, Dublin, was set upon as he tried to confiscate
bottles, poles and offensive weapons from fans pouring into the League Final
tie.

The High Court was told that he stopped an Armagh supporter, believed to have
links to a subversive organisation, shortly before the game.

Lawyers for the retired Garda told how he was kicked to the ground after he
warned the fan that he would have to surrender a bottle he was carrying.

The man is known to police on both sides of the border and is understood to have
24 previous convictions for traffic offences and attacks on members of the
security forces.

An eight-man gang beat the Garda, leaving him with serious back problems and
post traumatic stress disorder, the court heard.

On foot of medical reports, the Garda was ordered to retire in May 1997 on an
annual pension of pounds 11,465.

Lawyer, Padraig McCartan, claimed Mr Purcell's injuries left him unemployable
and frightened because of the attacker's terrorist links.

The former Garda told how he narrowly avoided a "life threatening" blow when one
"smirking" attacker went to kick him in the side of the head.

He also relived the terror of identifying the gang leader in a line-up at the
Bridewell Garda Station the following day.

"The manner in which he looked at me - it was like a black panther in a cage,"
Mr Purcell said.

"Although I knew in my heart and soul that this was the man, I couldn't
positively identify him."

The retired officer is now on medication to keep panic attacks at bay and has
trouble sleeping.

He told state lawyers that he feared for his life during the attack and added:
"The look the man gave me compounded that fear." He also claimed his personality
had completely changed following the incident.

The case continues today.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              237 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                               November 21, 1998

Dog-attack girl is in terror of family pet

SECTION: Animals: Domestic, Pg.1

LENGTH: 299 words


AN ABERDEEN girl who was savaged by a powerful mastiff dog is now in terror of
her family's collie - a pet she has loved for years.

Jolene Whyte, 13, was last night recovering at home after five days in hospital
and undergoing surgery.

But Queenie the innocent collie is banished to another room at the family's
Fowler Avenue home.

Her father, Michael, said: "We had to hold the dog back when she came home from
hospital. She was trembling.

"The dog is being kept in another room and it looks like we may need to get rid
of it.

"Jolene was brought up with dogs, now she can't go near them."

The mastiff pounced on Jolene in Manor Avenue on Sunday, biting into her back
and left arm. The dog is now in a pound and its owner has apologised to the
Whytes and agreed it should be put down.

Jolene required 20 stitches as well as surgery and on Monday will see a plastic
surgeon.

Mr Whyte and his wife Karen said Jolene was lucky to be alive.Mrs Whyte was so
shocked that she won't let Jolene and their other children Kimberley, 10,
Michael, 10, and Steven, 7, out of the house unsupervised.

"We got a big scare - I'm not letting the kids out on themselves anymore.

"This could have been much more serious and it could happen to anyone."

Her husband said the mastiff's owner had apologised and agreed that the dog be
put down.

The Whytes are now waiting to hear if there is to be any police involvement in
the matter.

"I don't want to see anyone's dog put down," said Mr Whyte. "But people with
dogs like that should have them muzzled.

"This could happen to anyone's kids - and it could have been a lot worse."

Jolene has been told to rest for a few weeks before returning to school.

Pupils and teachers at Northfield Academy have sent two teddy bears to speed her
recovery.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 1998 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              238 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                               November 21, 1998

Attacker 'like crazed animal'
 CLEETHORPES: TERROR ENDS IN JAILING

SECTION: Crime: indecent assault, Pg.4

LENGTH: 337 words


A MAN who subjected two women to a "terrifying ordeal" in Cleethorpes was jailed
for four months by magistrates.

One of the women, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was indecently
assaulted, while the other was the victim of a common assault.

Michael John Westhead (23) of Castleford Avenue, Grimsby, pleaded guilty to both
charges.

For the prosecution, Gail Leach-Smith said the women were walking home from a
Cleethorpes nightclub on September 6 when the attack occurred.

"They were subjected to what they consider to be a terrifying ordeal by the
defendant," she said.

The first woman was struggling to fend Westhead off while the second tried to
get him away from her, Grimsby magistrates heard.

To do this, she grabbed his testicles, but this appeared to aggravate Westhead,
who turned his attentions to her instead and indecently assaulted her.

In the course of the assault, the woman's bra was torn and she received a slight
injury, while the first woman, who described Westhead as a "crazed animal",
received swelling to the right side of her face.

Mitigating, Nick Furman said Westhead, a man of previous good character, was
"absolutely clear that his behaviour on that evening was unmitigable and
entirely out of character."

"He pleaded guilty at the first opportunity," he added.

"He had been out on the evening with friends and had been drinking, and he
places a large proportion of the blame for his behaviour on the alcohol."

A deteriorating relationship might also have contributed to his behaviour.

"He doesn't remember clearly the events that took place in the street."

Summing -up, chairman of the Bench, Ian Perry, told Westhead this had been a
"very serious attack".

"It was an unprovoked attack; it was protracted and was quite late at night.

"The female victims you chose at random and we feel that the public must be
protected from such behaviour."

Westhead was sentenced to four months in jail for the indecent assault, and one
month for the common assault, the sentences to run concurrently.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              239 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           November 22, 1998, Sunday

MAN, 77, DIES IN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Jeanette Oldham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 249 words


POLICE are appealing for information after a callous home invasion by four
masked men left a 77-year-old man dead.

Ernest Gilmore and his wife Annie, also 77, were subjected to a terrifying
ordeal when the attackers burst into their home in Moy, County Tyrone.

Police, who are treating the case as a murder inquiry, said the men bound and
assaulted the couple.  They then ransacked the house and made off in two cars.

Mrs Gilmore alerted a neighbour after breaking free.

Her husband is believed to have died of a heart attack brought on by the trauma.
Mrs Gilmore was unhurt but was treated for shock at South Tyrone Hospital, where
she was described as distraught.

Neighbour Minnie Robinson said Mr Gilmore had been a generous man who spent his
spare time running errands for fellow pensioners.

Police described the attackers as highly dangerous.

"Without doubt this is a heinous crime," Dungannon Supt Duncan McCausland said.

"Two old people in their homes going through their normal life, and their home
is entered and violated.

"It's a tragedy for the Gilmore family and the community in Moy, which has a
fair number of elderly residents."

A police spokeswoman said two cars were seen travelling at speed from the
direction of the house on Friday about 8.10pm.

"They then split up," she said. "One went off in the direction of Armagh, the
other towards Moy village."

Anyone with information is asked to contact Dungannon police on 0186 875 2525.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              240 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 24, 1998, Tuesday

POUNDS 200K FOR BOY WHO LOST AN EYE IN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Joe Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 355 words


A YOUTH who made a miracle recovery after being shot through the eye by a
loyalist killer gang was awarded more than pounds 200,000 compensation
yesterday.

Christopher Lawless, 15, from Brooke Drive, Dunmurry, outside Belfast, was shot
when UFF gunmen launched a murder attack on customers in the Devenish Arms pub a
few days before Christmas, 1991.

It was mid-afternoon when Christopher's father brought him into the pub while he
made a phone call.

The boy was sipping an orange drink and eating nuts when the masked gunmen burst
in.

Shot

He hid under a pool table but he was spotted by a gunman who bent down and shot
him at point blank range.

The gunmen murdered Aiden Wallace, 22, from Ashton Park, Belfast, in the same
attack.

The bullet which struck Christopher went through his left eye and exited above
his ear.

For weeks, his life hung in the balance but he fought his way back to health.
After speech re-training, he now attends La Salle Secondary School in west
Belfast.

His latest school report

describes him as "very pleasant and keen pupil who has tried his best and has
the attitude and ability to do well in his GCSEs".

Yesterday Christopher, accompanied by his parents Peter and Phyllis, was at
Belfast Recorder's Court for the hearing of his malicious injury claim against
the Northern Ireland Office.

The case was settled out of court and afterwards the amount of compensation was
approved by Judge John Petrie, sitting in private.

The exact amount was not revealed but was understood to be more than pounds
200,000.

Scarred

Afterwards Christopher, who lost the sight of his left eye and has scarring on
the side of his head, said he remembered very little about the horror attack.

"But my mum and dad have told me all about it, he said.

"It was a terrible experience and I am glad it's all over."

His solicitor, Gerry O'Hare, said: "It was Christopher's personality which
helped him to come through this awful ordeal.

"His parents have also been fantastic and not enough praise can be heaped on the
doctors and nurses who saved his young life."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOT: Christopher

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              241 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               November 25, 1998

My terror, by teenager in sex attack
 ASSAULT: Student left too scared to go out alone

BYLINE: N By Jayne Freer Crime Reporter

SECTION: Pg.13

LENGTH: 311 words


A TEENAGE student today said she was too terrified to go out on her own after
she was indecently assaulted in Plymouth.

The 18-year-old was grabbed by the assailant who tried to pull her into a garden
before sexually assaulting her.

The young woman, who does not want to be identified, today backed police calls
for witnesses to the incident to come forward.

She says the incident had ruined her confidence and she was now scared to got
out on her own.

She was attacked after getting off the number 41 Citybus in Clittaford Road at
5.50pm on Saturday and walked into Stroma Close, near where she lives.

The teenager said: "This bloke ran up behind me, grabbed me by my jacket, swung
me around and tried to pull me into a garden."

But the brave student put up a struggle. She said: "There was no way I was going
to go to the ground."

She shouted at her attacker that she would scream if he didn't let her go. He
then sexually assaulted her.

Trust

"I am quite a confident person and have never been scared of anyone but now I am
scared to go out on my own. It has changed my life, I have lost my trust," she
added.

Two friends who stayed on the bus after the teenager alighted say they saw a man
fitting the description on the bus but couldn't say which stop he got off.

People in the area are now being urged to think back to Saturday and contact
police if they have any information about the attack.

Detective Inspector Mike Fowkes, of Charles Cross CID, said: "This was a very
nasty incident, which we are treating very seriously.

"I would appeal for anyone who knows who this individual is or saw anything to
contact us."

The attacker is described as 40 years old, 5ft 7ins tall and skinny. He had a
moustache and his brown hair was in a grown-out crew-cut style.

Anyone with information is asked to contact Charles Cross CID on 0990 777444.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1998 Evening Herald

                              242 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                     November 25, 1998, Wednesday Edition 4

Stalker in terror attack on girl

BYLINE: By Mick Robson

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 171 words


   DETECTIVES are hunting a stalker who tried to drag a schoolgirl into a dark
alley.

It happened as the 15-year-old made her way home from a bus stop near the Cannon
Inn on the Coast Road at Billy Mill, North Shields, last night.

She got off the bus just before 10pm and walked down Heaton Terrace.

But as she approached the junction with Verne Road, the man put a hand over her
mouth and tried to pull her into shadows.

The girl managed to struggle free and started screaming, and her attacker ran
off. She was left shocked but unhurt.

Appealed

Police appealed today for anyone who saw the man or the attack to come forward.

A spokesman said: "We are not speculating about the attacker's intentions, but
are treating this as a very serious attack."

The suspect is about 19, 5ft 10in, muscular with blond or brown hair cut short
at the back and gelled forward. He had blue eyes and wore a waist-length coat
with dark sleeves and a light front.

Witnesses should call [0191] 214 6555, ext 63144.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              243 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               November 30, 1998

Students shot at by gunman;
 WEEKEND OF VIOLENCE: three terror attacks

BYLINE: Imogen Sellers Crime reporter

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 502 words


POLICE were this morning investigating three violent robberies and a drive-by
shooting during a weekend of mayhem in Bath.

Four students narrowly escaped serious injury during a terrifying shooting on
the A4 on Saturday night when a gunman shot at them as he overtook their
vehicle.

In Larkhall a woman shop assistant was dragged across the floor and ordered to
open the safe by an attacker posing as a delivery man.

A 48-year-old woman bravely fought off a young robber in the second attack at
the same spot in the Odd Down area on Saturday night.

And a 28-year-old man was left with a four-inch slash to his cheek after being
attacked as he walked home also on Saturday night.

Police were this morning appealing for the public's help to catch the offenders.

The drive-by shooting happened as Emma Doswell and four friends were on their
way to see a cabaret show at Bath Spa University when their car was shot at
twice by someone with an airgun.

The 20-year-old has a hole in her jacket and a bruise on her arm where she
thinks one of the pellets might have hit her after smashing through the back
window.

The students believe the shots came from a car, believed to be a D-registered
Austin Maestro, just before it overtook them on the A4 at Newton St Loe at
7.20pm.

Meanwhile a 40-year-old woman was this morning recovering from a horrific ordeal
in which she was dragged across a shop floor and ordered to open a safe.

The robber, who had tricked his way into the Larkhall JCR shop minutes before,
escaped with about 100 in coins.

At 6.30am on Saturday the woman was sorting out the morning papers as normal
when a man appeared outside the locked front door clutching a bundle of
newspapers.

Thinking it was another delivery she unlocked the door and let him in.

He immediately shouted at her to get the key to the safe and then dragged her
across the shop floor and told her to open it.

After taking the cash he ran out of the shop.

The robber is described as white, with a local accent, 6ft 3ins tall and wearing
a black scarf, black woolly hat and dark trousers.

At around 6.15pm on Saturday, a 48-year-old woman was walking down an alleyway
by Wansdyke Special School when a teenager jumped out of bushes and tried to
grab her handbag. But the local woman punched him in the face and he fled
empty-handed.

The attempted robbery took place at the same spot where a female pensioner was
attacked last week.

A 28-year-old man was slashed in the face by an attacker after he refused to
hand over cash as he walked along an alleyway near Hayesfield School towards the
Bear Flat area of Bath.

The assault, involving two men, happened at around 10.30pm on Saturday. One of
the men is described as white, in his 30s, 5ft 10ins tall, with brown hair,
unshaven and wearing a green Parka-style jacket and dark jeans.

Police are appealing for anyone with any information about the weekend's
incidents to contact them on Bath 444343 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              244 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                December 2, 1998

Husband jailed for blaze attack;Terror for in-laws after couple split

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 549 words


A man petrol-bombed his in-laws when his marriage collapsed, a court heard
yesterday.

Kevin Wallace, 29, could have burned Frederick and Maureen Strachan to death
when he smashed a milk bottle full of petrol through their bedroom window. The
couple managed to escape the "inferno" that engulfed their Aberdeen home.

However Mr Strachan, 55, still suffers psychological problems and flashbacks
after waking up in "blind terror" to discover the blaze.

Wallace, who was jailed for two-and-a-half years, claimed he carried out the
attack in order to gave his in-laws "a fright".

However, Lord Osborne said: "We are talking about petrol and fire - most people
would understand when you start combining the two the situation is quite likely
to get very much out of control."

Jailing Wallace, who has since got back with his wife, the judge said: "It could
easily have resulted in far worse consequences."

Father-of-two Wallace was suffering stress after his wife, Andrea, went to a
women's refuge with their two young sons, the High Court in Aberdeen heard.

Advocate depute Frances McMenamin said Wallace discovered his family had left
their Girdleness Road home in February this year.

She said: "Mr Wallace seemed to think quite naturally that Mr and Mrs Strachan
might have some information about the wherabouts of his wife and two children."

Despite continuous efforts to find her through Mr and Mrs Strachan he could not
get in touch - and eventually snapped.

Late on the night of February 17, he went to the Strachan home in the city's
South Anderson Drive.

The advocate depute said: "Mr Strachan was wakened by a noise in the bedroom and
discovered that his bedroom was on fire, including the bed in which he had been
sleeping.

"He managed somehow to get himself from the bedroom into the kitchen where there
was a small fire extinguisher which proved totally inadequate to deal with what
was happening."

Mr Stachan said it was an "inferno" and that he was in "blind terror", the court
heard.

His wife had been in the living room and initially thought the crashing noise
was her husband having a heart attack.

Mr Strachan was treated in hospital for two days for smoke inhalation, but was
left traumataised and scared and has to take medication because of flashbacks,
depression and sleeping problems.

Wallace, originally charged with attempted murder, admitted wilful fireraising
while acting with an unknown accomplice.

Wallace claimed he put a brick through the window and then threw an unlit bottle
into the bedroom, which was already on fire thanks to his accomplice.

Wallace's defence counsel Bill McVicar said: "He can do no more than offer his
sincere apologies and his deepest regret that he caused physical and
psychological damage to his in-laws.

"Mr Wallace was very greatly upset by the collapsing marital situation.

"What had been intended was that some fright be caused - in the cold light of
day he is able to see the extreme folly of his actions."

Lord Osborne said he accepted Wallace was under stress because of the state of
his marriage but said: "I feel that because of the gravity of this offence and
the consequences that no course other than the imposition of a custodial
sentence is appropriate."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Kevin Wallace: full of regret for attack

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              245 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           December 8, 1998, Tuesday

FRIGHTENED SOLDIER HAD BEEN TOLD TO EXPECT TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: Melissa Kite Special Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 530 words


Paratrooper Lee Clegg last night vividly relived the moment when he opened fire
on a stolen car in west Belfast.  Holding an imaginary rifle in his arms, he
stood up in the dock of Belfast Crown Court to demonstrate how he took aim and
fired at the car as it passed through a road block eight years ago.  Giving
evidence at his retrial for the murder of 18-year-old Karen Reilly, a passenger
in the car, Clegg said he had been frightened and believed his patrol was coming
under terrorist attack.  "You are bloody frightened in this environment. We had
been given a briefing that it was imminent that Provisional IRA were going to
attack," said Clegg, 30. Reliving the "frantic" events surrounding the shooting,
Clegg said he had been certain the car had hit a colleague.  "I thought, 'Bloody
hell, it has hit him'. When it had done that it came to my side of the road. It
was coming directly to my position," he said.  The incident was over in seconds
- "literally in a flash".  Clegg was sentenced to life in 1993 for the murder of
Miss Reilly, but freed on licence in 1995 having served less than four years.
He was granted a retrial earlier this year, after three Appeal Court judges
declared his conviction was unsafe because it was based on suppositions now
shown to be unfounded.  Giving evidence yesterday, Clegg said he fired four
shots, three at the windscreen and one at the wing of the car. Asked if he had
ever been in a terrorist situation before, the soldier said: "No, sir, and I
don't wish to be in one again." Clegg had been a serving soldier for only five
months and had never fired his rifle before, except on training, his counsel, Mr
William Clegg QC, told the court.  "The case for the defence is that Private
Clegg's actions were lawful and that he was acting in the defence of another
soldier," he said. "There was a genuine and reasonably held fear in his mind
that his patrol could be the target for attack." His fellow soldiers on the
patrol had not been told they were part of an operation to deter car thieves, as
that could have resulted in a relaxation of their attention, Mr William Clegg
said.  "The danger in that part of Belfast at the time was ever-present, but was
particularly acute on the night in question." The lights of the car had been on
full beam and Clegg had accustomed his eyes to the dark. The car had swerved and
he believed that it presented a real danger.  "When one examines the forensic
evidence, what is clear is that he fired four shots in what must have been no
more than 30 seconds. It was pitch dark, he was frightened and he was trying to
defend his fellow soldiers." But Crown Counsel Mr Reginald Weir alleged Lee
Clegg had "played up" the terrorist aspect of the situation and played down the
objective of the operation that night.  He asked the soldier why he had not
mentioned in court before the security briefing on the night of the shooting,
warning of imminent attack.  Mr Weir said: "You didn't mention the briefing
because you knew perfectly well the purpose of the night was to set up vehicle
checkpoints to catch joyriders." Lee Clegg answered: "No sir".  The hearing was
adjourned until today.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Reliving events: Lee Clegg.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              246 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                December 8, 1998

Paratrooper thought patrol was under terrorist attack the night a teenager was
killed;Clegg relives fateful shots

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 630 words


Paratrooper Lee Clegg yesterday vividly recalled the moment when he opened fire
on a stolen car in west Belfast.

Holding an imaginary rifle, he stood up in the dock of Belfast Crown Court to
demonstrate how he took aim and fired at the Vauxhall Astra as it passed through
a road block eight years ago.

Giving evidence at his retrial for the murder of 18-year-old Miss Karen Reilly,
a passenger in the car, Clegg said he had been frightened and believed his
patrol was coming under terrorist attack.

"You are bloody frightened - in this environment, unfortunately, with high
terrorist activity, and we had been given a briefing by intelligence that it was
imminent that PIRA (Provisional IRA) were going to attack," said Clegg.

Reliving the events surrounding the shooting, Clegg, 30, said he had been
certain the car had hit a colleague.

"I thought, 'Bloody hell, it has hit him'. When it had done that it came across
to my side of the road. It was coming directly across to my position," he said.

Clegg was sentenced to life in 1993 for the murder of Miss Reilly, but freed on
licence in 1995 having served less than four years.

He was granted a retrial earlier this year, after three Appeal Court judges
declared his conviction was unsafe because it was based on suppositions now
shown to be unfounded.

Giving evidence, Clegg said he fired four shots, three at the windscreen and one
at the wing of the car. As he explained his actions he mimicked the action of
shooting.

"I know it is eight years down the line, but that is what I did, I know," he
said.

Asked if he had ever been in a terrorist situation before, the soldier said:
"No, sir, and I don't wish to be in one again."

Clegg, promoted to Lance Corporal after his release on licence, said he and his
patrol had been warned that evening of the likelihood of terrorist attack before
they set up a roadblock on the Glen Road. "You think, 'Christ, I could go out
there tonight and it could be me'," he said.

He had been a serving soldier for only five months and had never fired his rifle
before, except on training, his counsel, Mr William Clegg QC, told the court.

"The case for the defence is that Private Clegg's actions were lawful and that
he was acting in the defence of another soldier," he said. "There was a genuine
and reasonably held fear in the mind of Private Clegg that his patrol that night
could be the target for terrorist attack."

His fellow soldiers on the patrol had not been told they were part of an
operation to deter car thieves, as that could have resulted in a relaxation of
their attention, Mr Clegg said.

"The anticipation of terrorist attack had been intensified at an intelligence
briefing given to this patrol that very evening.

"While not particularly unusual, this tended to heighten the tension and fear
felt on that patrol, a patrol in an area where he knew that fellow soldiers had
in the past been killed and injured," said the QC.

The lights of the stolen Vauxhall Astra had been on full beam and Clegg had
accustomed his eyes to the pitch dark. The car swerved and he believed it
presented a real danger to the soldiers. "It was against that background that
Private Clegg opened fire," he said.

But Crown Counsel Reginald Weir alleged Clegg had "played up" the terrorist
aspect of the situation and played down the objective of the operation that
night.

He asked Clegg why he had not mentioned before in court the security briefing on
the night of the shooting, warning of imminent attack.

Mr Weir said: "You didn't mention the briefing because you knew perfectly well
the purpose of the night was to set up VCPs (vehicle checkpoints) to catch
joyriders."

Clegg answered: "No sir".

The hearing continues.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Clegg: certain car had hit colleague

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              247 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           December 11, 1998, Friday

RING OF STEEL TO PROTECT DOUNREAY;
Electric fence put up to halt terror attacks

BYLINE: Bob Dow

SECTION: Page 35

LENGTH: 348 words


A HUGE electric fence has gone up at Dounreay nuclear plant after it failed
security tests.

A crack SAS team staged a mock raid and managed to enter the installation.

The security review was ordered amid fears of a terrorist attack and Dounreay
officials acted immediately afterwards.

Now a mile-long, 20-ft high electrified fence has gone up, ringing the sensitive
"fuel areas" at the Caithness reprocessing plant, which employs 1600 staff.

Last night, UK Atomic Energy Authority spokeswoman Lynne Staples-Scott said: "It
is prudent and brings us up to date.

"Obviously, it is very sensitive but we put a high priority on safety and want
to have the best systems in place. It is a very big fence and if anyone is
foolish enough to try it, they will either be caught or electrocuted.

"Some nuclear plants have already had them fitted and we think it is a wise
measure."

Earlier this year, the police chief responsible for guarding the country's
nuclear installations, Anthony Pointer, resigned in protest at understaffing.

The former head of the UK Atomic Energy Authority Constabulary was understood to
be concerned about security at Britain's nuclear sites.

The SAS units carried out the mock raids on several nuclear plants throughout
Britain and managed to enter every one.

Last night, Friends of the Earth Scotland spokesman Lang Banks said the
environmental group were pleased with the new electric fence as it added to
security.

He said: "The security at the site is so lax that anthing which takes steps to
tighten things up is to be warmly welcomed.

"Dounreay's record is appalling and we have consistently tried to bring this to
people's attention."

A spokesman for the SNP, who have opposed the plant for years, said: "This is
yet more evidence that Dounreay's security is appalling."

Dounreay was embroiled in a political row earlier this year over a consignment
of 4.3kg of weapons grade uranium from Georgia.

Despite protests, the government insisted it was necessary to keep the materials
out of reach of terrorists by taking it to Dounreay.


LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1998 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              248 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 15, 1998

Embassies in terrorist attack warning

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 82 words


American embassies in the Gulf have warned their citizens against possible
"terrorist" attacks over Christmas.

But although the standard warning statement which was issued in several regional
states referred to possible attacks in the Gulf, diplomatic sources in Kuwait
said renewed attacks against "soft US targets" elsewhere in the world were not
excluded. "Last time everyone thought there was a threat in the Gulf so the
attacks were carried out in East Africa," a source said.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              249 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                               December 18, 1998

CAR LIFT GIRL,19, IN RAPE ATTACK HORROR
 Two-mile trip of terror

BYLINE: By Keith Peirson

SECTION: Crimes & Dossiers: Rape & sexual assault, Pg.1

LENGTH: 261 words


POLICE were today hunting a man after a 19-year-old girl was driven to an
Ilkeston car park and brutally raped.

The teenager was taken on a two-mile terror ride after accepting a lift from the
man in Little Hallam Hill.

Detectives are now warning women to be extra vigilant at night and not to walk
home on their own.

The teenager was walking along when she was offered a lift by a man in a red or
maroon car at around 9:30pm on Wednesday.

She was driven two miles to a car park on West End Drive, near Pewit Golf
Course, where the man carried out the brutal assault.

The attacker then drove to the junction of Godfrey Drive and Eaton Avenue in
Kirk Hallam and dropped the frightened girl off between 10 and 10.30pm.

Caution

Detective Inspector Sam Slack, based at Ilkeston, said other people were in the
Little Hallam Hill area when the woman was picked up.

"We are very keen to talk to anyone who was in the area at that time and who may
have seen a woman getting into a car there," her said.

He stressed the need for extra caution while walking at night, especially for
women.

"Stay in brightly-lit places, walk in groups of at least two and where possible
take buses or taxis.

"Do not accept lifts from strangers, especially if they are men you do not know
or about whose attitude or appearance you may have some misgivings," he said.

A spokesman for Derbyshire Police said: "This was a nasty assault."

Police are planning to circulate an artist's impression of the attacker.

Anyone with information should call Ilkeston CID on 01773 570100.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1998 Nottingham Evening Post

                              250 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                     December 24, 1998, Thursday Edition 1

Sex assault victim speaks out -;
Young woman's warning to others after her evening out turned into a terror trip
when taxi driver attacked her while she was worse for wear IN the second part of
our three day investigation into rogue taxi drivers a victim of the cowboy
cabbies told Andrew McKegney and Jemma Cooper of her ordeal.

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 508 words


   A WAITRESS sexually assaulted by a taxi driver relived her ordeal and begged
others to take care.

She spoke after we highlighted growing concerns about rogue cabbies.

The 24-year-old had gone into Newcastle with friends to celebrate a birthday.
But her night of fun ended with a ride of terror when the driver pulled over and
indecently assaulted her.

She said: "We'd all been drinking since 5pm. We went to Legends nightclub, in
Grey Street, Newcastle, and I was feeling ill at midnight so I decided to leave.

"I was very drunk - so drunk I can't remember all the details and I'm sure it
wouldn't have happened if I hadn't been in that state.

"I remember leaving the club and seeing a white taxi. I went over and got in the
front which was a mistake but at the time I wasn't thinking.

"Everything was spinning and I just wanted to get home. I can't remember much
about the driver except he was overweight.

Slowed

"I said where I wanted to go. I was living in Heaton, Newcastle, with my parents
and I remember driving out of town and then the car slowed down and pulled over.
I can't remember where, everything is so hazy because I was so drunk.

"Then he began fondling me and I just went into shock as I realised the
situation was out of my control.

"Then he forced me to perform a sex act on him. I was so scared I didn't know
what to do. I suddenly realised what he was making me do and I shouted no and
bolted out of the car.

"I didn't register what had happened. I just ran home and it was only when I
woke up the next morning I realised what he'd done.

"I felt absolutely sick and disgusted - like I had asked for it because I'd had
too much to drink. I felt really ashamed and I couldn't tell my mum and dad."

She believes if she hadn't been so drunk and got into the taxi unaccompanied she
would have been perfectly safe.

"I kept playing it over

and over. How I put myself in a vulnerable position by being drunk and getting
in the front seat. I blamed myself."

Torn between feelings of guilt and anger at what had happened she contacted the
police.

"I couldn't get it out my head and I wanted someone else to say it wasn't my
fault. They said I'd been sexually assaulted and took a statement.

"Then I told my mum and dad who were brilliant. They said it wasn't my fault and
I just started crying because of the relief. I still feel guilty and ashamed
though."

Pursue

The driver was never caught.

His victim said: "I decided not to pursue it any further as the thought of going
through it all in court and having my life dissected was something I couldn't
deal with. Also I felt I didn't have enough recollection of the event - but I'm
glad I reported it."

Although she is getting on with her life she believes her experience has scarred
her for life.

"I'm wary of taxis now and I'll never speak to the driver even if he's friendly.
I've also moved so I can walk home from clubs and pubs."

On Saturday, in the final part of our investigation, we go out with the
Enforcers.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TAXI TRAUMA - for one Newcastle woman who was sexually assaulted by a
driver after a night out with friends in the city

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              251 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 26, 1998, Saturday

Terrorist denies part in attacks

BYLINE: Ian Brodie in Washington and our foreign staff

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 174 words


OSAMA bin Laden, wanted as one of the world's most dangerous terrorists, has
denied that he was behind the bombing of two US Embassies in East Africa, but
said he was not sorry the attacks occurred. It was the first time he had been
seen since the attacks in Kenya and Tanzania on August 7, in which 224 people
were killed.

The Afghanistan-based Saudi dissident, whom the US accuses of masterminding the
bombings, denied US intelligence reports that he was seriously ill. "Every day I
indulge in my favourite hobby of horseriding, riding more than 70 kilometres (40
miles) a day," bin Laden told the London-based Arabic daily ash-Sharq al-Awsat.

Bin Laden said he was not at his headquarters in Afghanistan when the Americans
attacked with cruise missiles on August 20 in retaliation for the embassy
bombings, killing about two dozen people.

After that, he said, he survived an assassination attempt ordered by a prince in
Saudi Arabia. "They were offered large sums of money in return for assassinating
me," he said.


LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              252 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                               December 28, 1998

Family's terror at Christmas Day firebomb attack on house

SECTION: Crime: Firearms, Pg.3

LENGTH: 221 words


POLICE were today hunting an arsonist who could have killed a family when he
hurled two petrol bombs at a house on Christmas Day.

One of the bombs smashed through an upstairs bedroom window and set fire to
curtains and floorboards just feet from where a 22-year-old man was sitting.

The second fire bomb exploded against the front door of the house in Freehold
Street, off Spring Bank, Hull.

A mother, her two sons, aged 22 and 23, and daughter, 18, were all at home when
the attack was launched at 10.30pm.

They managed to put out the fire with buckets of water.

The incident followed a phone call two days earlier in which the lives of the
family were threatened.

The 46-year-old woman, who asked not to be named, said it was the latest attack
by a man harbouring a grudge against the family.

"We have had bricks put through the window before and I believe I know who is
doing it," she said.

"I contacted the police after the threats. It is a miracle no one was killed.

"I am frightened for my life now and cannot answer the door or the phone.

"I can't leave the house for fear of not having a home when I come back."

She said the previous incidents, in which bricks were thrown, had taken place in
the early hours.

Anyone with information should telephone police at Queens Gardens on (01482)
220500.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1998 Hull Daily Mail

                              253 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           December 29, 1998, Tuesday

WOMAN'S TERROR AS GRANDSON ATTACKED AT TEMPLE

BYLINE: By Deborah Luck

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 139 words


AN 80-year-old woman watched in horror as her grandson was attacked outside a
Sikh temple in Willenhall.

The woman was left shocked but uninjured despite the gang also smashing the
windows of the car she was sitting in during last night's incident.

Three men attacked 41-year-old Harbans Singh Johal as he locked the gates at the
Guru Nanak Temple in Walsall Road at 9pm.

Detective Chief Inspector Steve Dugmore, of Willenhall CID, said there was no
evidence to suggest the attack was racially motivated.

He said despite it being a "nasty" incident Mr Johal, who is a committee member
at the temple, escaped with minor injuries which did not need hospital
treatment. Three windows of his H-registration Vauxhall Cavalier were smashed.

Three men, aged 20, 25 and 19, were helping police with their inquiries.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              254 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 8, 1999

Release of loyalist terrorist attacked by victim's family

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 109 words


A loyalist multiple murderer who was sentenced to more than 400 years in jail
was freed from the Maze yesterday, after spending just over 10 years in prison.

Denis McClean, 50, from Belfast, admitted 44 offences including three murders,
the manslaughter of a policewoman, six attempted murders, bomb-making,
possessing guns and bombs, and UVF membership, when he appeared in Belfast Crown
Court in 1988.

Ms Angela Muldoon, whose father Harry was one of McClean's victims in 1984, said
the release, under the Northern Ireland peace agreement, brought the heartbreak
back.  "We are sitting with no daddy and he's getting out," she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              255 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                January 9, 1999

terror attack on pensioner

SECTION: Crime: theft, Pg.11

LENGTH: 103 words


A 64-YEAR-OLD woman was knocked to the floor and dragged 10 yards before being
robbed in Grimsby.

The woman was in Warwick Avenue, near the junction with Winchester Avenue,
between 12.30 and 12.40pm yesterday, when she was approached from behind by a
group of youths.

They pulled at her bag, dragging her along the road.

Stolen was a red nylon shopping bag containing groceries, a black plastic purse
and GBP 40.

One of the youths involved was described as male, white, 5ft 10in tall and of
slim build.

He was said to be in his late teens or early 20s, with dark, short hair, and
wearing a black top and dark trousers.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1999 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              256 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      January 12, 1999, Tuesday Edition 1

Police probe link in attacks on women -;
Rape and knife terror victims give similar descriptions to detectives

BYLINE: By DAVE CLARK

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 337 words


   DETECTIVES hunting the knifeman who stabbed a woman in broad daylight in
Newcastle are investigating a possible link with a rape the week before.

Police suspect the unprovoked attack on the woman as she walked down an alley
next to Central Station on New Year's Eve may have been carried out by the same
man who raped a 19-year-old girl in Wallsend on Christmas Eve.

Det Con Alan Darlington of the British Transport Police said: "It is still only
a possible link, because, although there are similarities between the
descriptions of the two men, the descriptions of their height and build do not
match up.

"We are looking into the idea they may be linked, but we are not ruling out any
lines of inquiry."

The Chronicle reported last week how the knifeman lashed out at a 44-year-old
mother-of five when she tried to break free of him after he grabbed her as she
walked to work at 9.50am.

The attacker was carrying what police believe to be a serrated steak knife which
he used to slash the woman's arm and stab her in the back. She was only saved
form serious injury by her thick sheepskin coat

He is in his early to mid 20s, 6ft 2in and powerfully built. His short dark hair
is squared off at the back and flat on top. He has prominent cheekbones and a
long, thin symmetrical face. He wore a new-looking black leather jacket with a
3in waistband, cream or beige jeans and a light top.

Det Con Darlington said: "Since the Chronicle printed the e-fit picture we've
had a lot of calls and are following up many leads, but we would still ask
people to study the picture and call us if they think they recognise the man."

The first attack happened late on December 24 as the girl made her way to a taxi
rank off Bristol Drive, Battle Hill. A man, aged about 20, dragged her behind
nearby council offices and raped her.

If you know anything about the rape call Northumbria Police on [0191] 214 6555.
If you can help with the stabbing call British Transport Police on freephone
0800 405040.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BRUTAL ATTACK - Det Sgt Peter Bent with an e-fit picture of the
Wallsend rapist near the scene of the crime

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              257 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                January 12, 1999

Two men rob teenager in terror attack

BYLINE: By Jane Shepherd

SECTION: Crime: Robbery, Pg.2

LENGTH: 223 words


A BOY was terrorised by two men and ordered to hand over cash before being
attacked in Biddulph town centre.

The 14-year-old, who suffered facial injuries, had been walking through an
alleyway linking High Street and John Street at 10.30am on Saturday when he was
approached by the men - described as being around 20 years of age.

One of them ordered the Biddulph High School pupil to hand over his money.

DC Richard Stott, of Burslem CID, said: "This was a terrifying ordeal for the
youngster who was just going about his general business.

"He was walking along the alleyway towards High Street when challenged by the
two men who demanded money from him.

"The victim said he had none and one of the men forceably checked his pockets
and removed his wallet containing a small amount of cash.

"The same man then pushed the young victim in the face causing a minor injury to
his nose before heading off towards John Street.

"We need to catch these men before they strike again."

Police say the man who injured the boy was white, aged around 20 years, of thin
build with sharp facial features. He had untidy shoulder length hair and wore an
olive green coloured military style coat.

The second man is described as being of similar age and build.

Police ask any witnesses to contact Burslem CID on 577114 or Crimestoppers on
0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 1999 The Sentinel

                              258 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 16, 1999, Saturday

IRA TIP-OFF FOILKS TERRORIST ATTACK;
 DOUBLE BLOW FOR REBEL REPUBLICAN GROUP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 324 words


IRA tip-offs helped police and Gardai score a crippling double-hit on rebel
terror chiefs.

The Mirror can reveal republican warlords have grassed dissidents in a two
-pronged move to sink their campaign of violence.

Eight suspected members of the breakaway Cont- inuity IRA were arrested after
republican sources tipped off the RUC about a plot to storm a West Belfast
police station.

And south of the border a massive arms hoard was discovered by Gardai- also
after information was received from men linked to the IRA.

Both the gun attack and the arms cache are thought to be the work of the
Continuity IRA peace-wreckers.

The revelations came as Chief Constable Sir Ronnie Flanagan warned that the
dissident terror group is planning bomb attacks in a new campaign.

He said: "They would intend to carry out acts of a variety of natures. There is
a risk of them attempting to carry out a bomb attack.

"It is a threat we are very much alive to. It is a threat we are currently
working very hard to thwart."

A group of policemen were waiting for the suspected terrorists when they began
their assault on Woodburn RUC base on Thursday night.

As the first shots were fired, officers rushed out to arrest the gunmen.

A rifle and handgun were found and during follow-up searches police made more
arrests.

Eight men and women were being held yesterday on suspicion of carrying out the
attack.

Security chiefs believe they belong to the breakaway CIRA, the only republican
terrorist group not on ceasefire.

The suspects were detained at Castlereagh holding centre in Belfast.

Meanwhile, ballistics experts in Dublin were examining two anti-aircraft guns, a
machine gun and hundreds of rounds of ammunition found near Carrickmacross in Co
Monaghan.

The three high-powered weapons were found after a secret tip-off led cops to the
haul on an isolated farm less than a mile from the Ulster border.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEADLY: The weapons haul recovered after a Garda search in Co; Monaghan

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              259 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 17, 1999, Sunday

How I met the sheikh waging a holy war on the world; Gary Finn (left), a convert
to Islam, recalls his interview with the London-based sheikh accused of
co-ordinating terrorist attacks inYemen. Five British citizens have been charged
with intent to cause 'murder, bombing and destruction'

BYLINE: Gary Finn

SECTION: NEWS; Page 4

LENGTH: 1049 words


STRICTLY speaking, we should not have been there. Two Muslims in a licensed
premises. But Sheikh Abu Hamza al-Misry, or Hamza as he introduced himself, set
the venue for this meeting, the Hilton Hotel in Shepherd's Bush, west London. As
a compromise, we sat on a couch in the lobby which seemed to be the farthest
from the "Bar 'n' Grill".

A young Arab boy, aged perhaps 11 or 12, clutching a mobile phone, accompanied
us. He took up a position on the opposite side of the lobby and stared at me
throughout the meeting.

Hamza is a hulk of a man, well over 6ft tall, his massive frame exaggerated by
his flowing salwar kameez. When I greeted him he proffered a scarred stump to
shake. His left arm was also sheared above the elbow. The disability appears to
be his badge, an article of faith in his war against the kaffirs (non-Muslims);
it is his testament to time spent with the mujahedin in Afghanistan after the
war with the Soviet Union; he told me he was clearing Soviet mines when the
accident happened. It also accounts for why only one of his eyes was fixing me
as his litany poured out; the other is a milky imitation surrounded by scar
tissue.

Despite these rather grotesque features, which may have explained why the
name-tagged sales reps from a conference gave us a wide berth on their way to
the bar, Hamza was genial enough. He spoke quickly and softly, starting as he
clearly meant to go on: "The western media are all liars, you know."

No doubt he would have plenty to say about the media this weekend: Hamza has
been named as the alleged co-ordinator of a terrorist cell intent on bombing
targets in Yemen. The group with which he is said to be linked is sworn to
overthrow the Yemeni government, and five Britons held in Aden were charged on
Friday with planning "murder, explosions and destruction".  Scotland Yard
detectives are said to be examining statements made by Hamza linking him to the
men.

Our meeting, last October, had taken some time to fix up. Before he came under
the glare of publicity last week, as his links to the alleged Yemeni
hostage-takers emerged, Hamza had been restricted to spreading his calls for an
Islamic state in Britain to pamphlets, a website, and e-mailing statements to
Arabic and foreign news agencies.

It was one of these leaflets that I found at the Islamic Cultural Centre at the
Central Mosque, Regent's Park, London, when I was investigating reports of
visits to Britain by Taliban recruitment officers. "Supporters of Shariah", the
umbrella group of shadowy extremist Islamic cells calling for holy war,
co-ordinated by Hamza, seemed to offer a tangible link to the Taliban.

Hamza told me that he might be able to help, but we must meet under strict
conditions: no tape recorders, notes must be made afterwards. After many
mobile-phone calls he agreed - but only because I have converted (or "reverted"
to use the Islamic term) to Islam, because of marriage.

It was an ice-breaker, no more than that, and allowed Hamza's initial suspicions
to be replaced with enthusiasm . . . "How are you getting on with the prayers?
Do you want to borrow a tape? Have you read the Holy Koran yet? What name have
you chosen?" I explained why I had chosen Zakariah Al-Haqq - Al Haqq, one of
Allah's 99 names, is Arabic for "the Truth" - but he grumbled that it sounded
too Pakistani, then launched into a diatribe against Pakistan for being slow in
implementing a Taliban-style state.

Warming to his subject matter, he got on to his favourite topic: jihad - holy
war - against the West, until the United Nations and Nato withdraw from Muslim
affairs.

When will that be? When would jihad stop?

"When everyone is Muslim," was the reply.

This polarised argument is familiar territory. The last time I came across such
vehemence was in Bradford after the 1995 riots, when the Egyptian- linked terror
group Hizb-ut-Tehrir were discovered stirring up the disaffected young Asian
Muslims in the vacuum following the disturbance.

Fundamentally there is no argument with the received word of God in the Koran or
the teachings of his prophet Mohammed, according to Hamza, so why is the West
obsessed with money, greed and cultural imperialism, he asks.

It is a persuasive argument, but behind this reason is a darker agenda - set in
stark relief following the killing of the four tourists in Yemen.  I challenged
his views, outlined in a Supporters of Shariah leaflet, concerning the use of
hostages as a "human shield". His reply was a chilling foretaste of what his
contacts in Yemen would stand accused of carrying out. "Generally, the killing
of civilians is not allowed in Islam," he said. "But in certain conditions it is
allowable, such as if they are being used as a shield against Islam, or jihad,
or even the mujahedin, then in that case, even if they are Muslims, the war must
still go on."

Indeed, Hamza condoned terrorist acts in general, saying it was obligatory for
every Muslim to rise up against non-Muslims. He said his views were justified
because of US aggression, most notably the bombing of Sudan and Afghanistan last
year.

He called that action "haram forbidden terrorism": "It is terrorism used for
nations to be superior over one another for non-godly reasons, for example, in
the name of racism, nationality, tribalism and pride, to impose non-godly
man-made laws which bring about inequity and nudity.  The United Nations and all
the secularist polytheists are using this kind of unlawful terrorism against the
people."

Hamza, who worked as a civil engineer before taking up preaching and activism at
Finsbury Park mosque in north London, sees no way forward other than violent
action, and his contacts are clearly extensive, spreading throughout Yemen,
Egypt, Afghanistan and the Middle East.

Although there was no let-up in his rhetoric, he conceded that, while money was
raised in the UK for furthering the cause abroad, no acts of violence were
planned for mainland Britain.

The mobile phone rang and Hamza's helper held the receiver to his ear.  The
meeting was now over, and as we parted, with him saying he expected to be
followed home by Special Branch, he handed me a leaflet: "Write Your Islamic
Will - Easy Example Provided."


LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              260 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           January 19, 1999, Tuesday

STREET SEX ATTACK TERROR OF TEENAGE GIRL

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 665 words


A Shrewsbury girl, aged 16, was sexually assaulted as she walked through a
passage in the town to meet a friend yesterday.

The attacker, aged about 45, white and wearing dark clothing, struck between
Monkmoor Road and Underdale Road, Monkmoor.

The girl was found by her friend seconds later lying on the floor. She had been
punched in the face and her clothing was ripped.

Police officers and dog handlers mounted an immediate search of the area but the
man, who smelt unwashed, escaped detection.

Burglars in raids blitz

Goods worth thousands of pounds were stolen in four separate raids across the
West Mercia Police area over the weekend.

Burglars escaped with furniture and electrical appliances worth pounds 5,700
from a house in Borrington Road, Kidderminster, Worcestershire, after breaking
in through a window.

In Evesham, pounds 1,860 of computer and audio equipment was stolen from Four
Pools Youth and Community Centre in Woodlands Lane.

Raiders also struck at Frank Higgins Transport on Broadmeadow Industrial Estate
in Ross-on-Wye, Herefordshire, taking tools worth pounds 1,970.

And raiders stole three chainsaws and other tools valued at pounds 2,500 from a
shed in Bryn Melyn, Llynclys, near Oswestry, Shropshire.

Walker hit by car named

Police have named a man killed when out walking his dog as Mr Geoffrey Roberts,
aged 42, of Manor Place, Higher Heath, Shropshire.

Mr Roberts died after he was hit by a car on the A41 at Prees Heath, Shropshire,
on February 12. Police are still appealing for witnesses.

Two hurt in M6 crashes

Ambulance crews were called to two accidents on a 200-yard stretch of the M6
within minutes of each other at the weekend.

No one was hurt in the first smash. In the second a man in his 50s was taken to
the North Staffordshire Hospital and a woman was admitted to Staffordshire
General Hospital. Neither was said to be in a serious condition. The accidents
took place on the so uthbound carriageway north of Stafford at about 7am.

College is host to Euro MP

Euro MP Ms Christine Oddy will be given a guided tour of Solihull College's
impressive new facilities on Fridayincluding its soon-to-be completed pounds
550,000 sports hall.

Miss Oddy, whose Coventry and North Warwickshire constituency includes Solihull,
said she was keen to see how the college was investing for the 21st century.

Recent developments at the Blossomfield Road campus include a Millennium
Building featuring high-tech computer and communications equipment and an art
block with lecture rooms, a library and graphic design suite.

Miss Oddy, who will be given the tour by college principal Colin Flint, said:
"The pace of development and change at the college never fails to impress and is
proof of how successful it now is in meeting

the needs of the local community through helping people gain skills and
qualifications."

Man robbed by knife gang

A man, aged 28, was dragged into bushes and robbed at knifepoint by a gang of
five men in North Street, Wolverhampton, yesterday.

They threatened him with a knife and stole a pounds 150 jacket, pounds 150
watch, pounds 95 glasses and pounds 95 cash.

The gang are all described as Asian, in their early 20s, and were wearing dark
clothing. Anyone with information is asked to contact police at Wolverhampton on
01902 649000.

Post Script

A retired florist is on the run in a bid to help fight crime.

Mr Alec Edmonds, aged 57, from Preston-on-Stour, near Stratford-upon-Avon, is
planning to take part in his tenth marathon to raise money for the Crimestoppers
charity.

He is training for the London Marathon which takes place on April 18.

Alec has already completed the marathon three times before with a best time of
three hours 18 minutes and hopes to do even better this year.

Alec has committed himself to early morning training and can regularly be seen
on runs along country lanes around his home at 4.30am most days.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              261 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                January 29, 1999

Loyalists claim pipe bomb attack;
 Breakaway terror group 'set to target Republic'

LENGTH: 170 words


A RENEGADE loyalist group calling itself The Red Hand Defenders today said it
carried out a bomb attack on a Catholic home.

In a coded statement the breakaway terror group also threatened to carry out
more attacks and to extend its campaign to the Republic.

Catholic mother Mary Quinn and her four children escaped injury when a pipe bomb
was hurled at their home in Dungannon early yesterday.

It was the latest in a wave of random sectarian attacks by loyalist gangs across
the province.

Mrs Quinn was asleep in the living room of the house while her children, aged
between five and 11, slept in their beds upstairs.

Claiming responsibility for the attack, the terror group said: ''Further attacks
will continue soon.

''The war is still on. We will start attacking the south soon with guns and
bombs.''

The Red Hand Defenders have been behind a number of gun and bomb attacks in the
past year, including a blast bomb attack in Portadown, which killed RUC officer
Frankie O'Reilly.


LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              262 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            January 29, 1999, Friday

BIKE BOY IN TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: Pg. 36

LENGTH: 257 words


A TEENAGE schoolboy has told how thugs repeatedly stamped on his face in a
Birmingham street and fractured his cheekbone after stealing a BMX bike.

Gavin Graham, aged 16, was attacked in broad daylight in St Vincent Street,
Ladywood, as he rode to meet his mother on Wednesday afternoon at a nearby bus
stop.

Two muggers punched him in the face and when he crashed to the pavement, they
ripped the silver bike from his grasp and kicked him at least eight times.

Gavin, who lives in Edgbaston and has learning difficulties, said: "They also
stamped on my face. It was agony.

"There was no need for them to hurt me like they did, booting me in the stomach
and the face because they already had the bike."

He added: "Apart from my injuries, I also feel very bad because the bike
belonged to my nine year-old nephew Jamie Williams and it was his Christmas
present.

"His mom saved for weeks to buy it and now it has been pinched and he is very
upset."

After the 2.15pm attack, Gavin was taken to City Hospital for emergency medical
treatment and was then allowed home.

Bruising

"I've got bruising all over my body and some cuts and I'm sure I'm going to end
up with a cauliflower ear," he added.

A police spokesman said: "This was a vicious attack on a young lad and the
violence was out of all proportion to what was stolen.

Police suspect the attackers, who were aged 16-18, live locally. One was black
and his accomplice was mixed race.

Anyone with information should call police on 0121 428 6020.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              263 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 29, 1999, Friday

The day East Timor was deleted; Cyberspace is turning nasty - and this time it's
political. The virtual world is under attack by terrorist hackers.

BYLINE: By Charles Arthur

SECTION: FEATURES; Page 8

LENGTH: 1246 words


East Timor disappeared from the map the other day. The removal was not physical;
there was no tsunami or undersea volcano to swallow up the island, which has
been illegally occupied by the Indonesian government since 1975.

Its disappearance was prompted by an invisible flood of electronic pulses which
poured down the telephone wires into a small office in Dublin, Ireland.  "I got
a yell from the other room, 'Unplug now!' and I ran down the stairs and
unplugged it from the wall, no ifs or buts," recalls John Plunkett, a systems
administrator at Connect Ireland, an Internet service provider.

From that moment, anyone trying to e-mail somebody with an East Timor address,
or access one of the country's Web pages, would have faced a blank screen. It
was one of the most effective cyber-terrorism attacks on record: a whole country
was suddenly cut off from the outside cyberworld.

Many countries would see this kind of co-ordinated attack as a mere
foreshadowing of what could be on the way. With society so interconnected, so
reliant on multiple sources of media, the best way to strike at a country is to
sabotage its lines of communication. The most effective attack is the one your
enemy does not know is coming, does not even know has occurred.  Last March
Louis Freeh, the director of the FBI, asked a Senate committee for increased
funding to cover "several priority initiatives, including those in the areas of
counter-terrorism and cyber-crime". The week before, the US Attorney-General
Janet Reno said: "Our systems are more vulnerable than ever to attack because of
our unprecedented reliance on technology."

Martin Maguire, a director at Connect Ireland, knew that in setting up a
"virtual" East Timor on his company's computers he was taking some risks.  "It's
a virtual country in that in political terms, it is not allowed to exist in the
real world by the Indonesian government - they just call it part of Indonesia -
so its only sovereignty is in cyberspace."

On 7 December 1997, the 22nd anniversary of the island's invasion, he registered
his company as the "top level domain" for East Timor (their machines acted like
a directory enquiries database for any Internet computer looking to connect to
an East Timorese), with the jailed resistance leader Xanana Gusmao as its
official administrator: Gusmao's inclusion was necessary because he is based in
East Timor, as the international rules for setting up those domains requires.

From then on, Maguire and his team vetted applications from anyone who wanted to
set up a Web page with the suffix ".tp" (the allotted abbreviation of Timorese
Internet addresses, just as ".uk" denotes British people and organisations).

That was not popular with the Indonesian authorities: a spokesman for the
Indonesian embassy in London said: "The handover of the domain to the government
of East Timor is beyond imagination, since the government of East Timor will not
exist."

Four months later the hacking attacks began. The first ones were clumsy.  But
they grew increasingly sophisticated until last week they reached a level where
the hackers could have altered the crucial database: thus someone trying to find
a "Free East Timor" page might instead have been directed to "Why Indonesia Was
Right To Invade". There would be no way for the casual surfer to know that their
computer had been subverted.

"It was so well organised, so deliberate and so skilful that whoever was doing
it must be getting paid," said Mr Maguire.

The attack has been repelled for now, but were it not for careful monitoring of
systems, East Timor might have disappeared as a separate entity for the second
time in its existence.

The United States military and government are aware that wars in the future will
be fought on every front, including the virtual one. On the same day that Freeh
was asking for more cash, Bill Gates, head of Microsoft, was insisting to
another Senate committee that his company does not have a monopoly in the world
of computers. With a nice sense of irony, a team of hackers launched an attack
within the US which froze thousands of machines - in military and government
offices - connected to the Internet. The hackers made their point: they only
targeted machines running Microsoft's Windows software.

But why, you may wonder, should an attack on the "virtual" East Timor lead to a
computer being hastily unplugged in Dublin? Questions like that assume that the
real world somehow maps directly to that of cyberspace.  But as more people are
discovering, that is not how it works. Cyberspace is taking on the
characteristics of the world which Gibson, in his groundbreaking science-fiction
novel Neuromancer, described. It isn't real, but it affects you profoundly,
every day. In the virtual world, power does not depend on how big you are
physically; it depends on how much notice people take of you, and how much
attention you can force them to pay. The virtual world of East Timor may reside
in a Dublin computer. You can also perform cyber-terrorism against people,
companies, entire classes of software (such as Microsoft's operating systems).
It doesn't take a gun or physical training. An eager hacker with a good supply
of fizzy drinks and an Internet connection can bring any of the above to their
knees - virtually speaking (and physically, if they end up having to unplug
their computer).

Yet sometimes, becoming a virtual country offers real benefits. Tonga, for
example, has the fortuitous suffix of ".to". And with English still the dominant
language on the Web, that attracted the attention of companies eager to have a
snappy address: would a travel agent be interested by the address
"www.go.to/australia" or "www.go.to/japan"? For Tonga, with a gross domestic
product of only about pounds 120m, the pounds 100 registration fee for each new
domain in its corner of cyberspace would come in handy.

The Net is also becoming a more political place - where revolutionary groups
decide who will host their Web page almost before they decide when to start the
revolution, and hackers change the contents of political parties' Web pages (as
happened to both the Tories and Labour at the last election).

Harmless stuff? Not necessarily. The other day, California saw its first court
case brought under a "cyberstalker" law that came into force on 1 January. The
prosecution claims that after a woman rejected his (physical) advances, Gary
Dellapenta placed an ad under her name on a bulletin board, claiming she was
seeking male partners to help her live out a rape fantasy.  Those who responded
(and you must wonder about their mental state) were sent her physical
description, address and details of her home alarm.  Dellapenta has pleaded not
guilty. But the fact that such a law has been deemed necessary shows how the
virtual world is lapping over into our physical one.

The more immediate worries are in the real world. Connect Ireland knows a little
about that; it has tweaked the nose of a government which has (as a
representative admitted on TV recently) engaged in torture and rape.  That is
hardly something to be done lightly. About a year ago, Mr Maguire recalls, he
got "a couple of phone calls from, shall I say, an Eastern gentleman. They
weren't very nice."

Was he worried? He chuckles. "I said look, pal, you can't worry me. I'm Irish.
I've been terrorised by professionals." He chuckles again.


LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              264 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                            January 31, 1999, Sunday

FURY AT TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: Page 2

LENGTH: 138 words


TWO paramilitary gang attacks in Ulster led to new calls yesterday for the
Government to halt early prisoner releases.

Tory Northern Ireland spokesman Andrew Mackay called them a "nauseating and
dangerous" escalation of the recent spate of beatings and shootings.

He demanded Ulster Secretary Mo Mowlem stop freeing jailed terrorists as the
Good Friday Agree-ment ceasefire wasn't holding.

Five men and two women in their late teens and early 20s had the car they were
in torched and were beaten by a gang in the loyalist Ballyduff estate in
Newtownabbey.

The armed gang had earlier forced their way into a house where a babysitter and
two children, aged seven and eight, were staying.

In the other incident, a Cookstown man, 31, was "stable" in hospital after being
shot twice in the leg by a gang in his home.


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1999 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              265 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                February 2, 1999

Twin sex attack terror relived in city of fear;
 POLICE RECREATE WOMEN'S ORDEALS IN HUNT FOR RAPIST

BYLINE: Sarah Harris

SECTION: News, Pg.7

LENGTH: 560 words



AS darkness fell on Bath last night, police began the reconstructions of the
latest attacks by the 'Batman' sex beast who is terrorising the city.

He struck a week ago today and police have warned they are hunting a "highly
dangerous" man who may be a serial attacker.

They are looking at possible links between ten unsolved cases - mainly involving
rape and kidnap - in the Bath area, including the disappearance of Melanie Hall.

Two police officers, WP-c Debbie Riddler and WP-c Philippa Cole, re-enacted the
ordeals of the two latest victims last night. Traffic was stopped in Forester
Lane, in the Bathwick area, for the reconstruction of the first attack at the
junction with Beckford Gardens, which was filmed for Crimestoppers.

A 39-year-old woman from Westbury, Wiltshire, had managed to escape from her car
after a man tried to abduct her at that spot, at 6.30pm last Tuesday.

The attacker left behind a vital clue - his baseball cap with a Batman logo. The
woman managed to give police a detailed description from which they created a
CD-fit.

She described him as white, 6ft tall, aged 24, clean-shaven with a youthful
complexion and short dark hair. He was wearing a yellow waterproof coat and the
distinctive cap which was given away with Batman Forever videos at Woolworth's
at Christmas 1995.

WP-c Riddler, dressed in a long camel coat, black trousers and shoes, walked
along Forester Lane, following the victim's movements.

Shouted

She passed the 'attacker', played by a male police officer, before getting into
her blue Ford Fiesta and driving the short way to the junction. Then the
assailant jumped in through the unlocked driver's door and shouted at her to
move over.

She managed to escape out of the passenger door and scream for help as her
attacker ran off, leaving behind his hat.

The reconstruction then moved to Prior Park Road in Widcombe, where another more
serious attack happened 15 minutes later, close to the Prior Park Garden Centre.

A 40-year-old woman was subjected to a serious sexual assault after a carbon
-copy of the first failed car-jacking.

WP-c Cole, wearing a red fleece jacket, grey skirt, tights and black shoes,
retraced the victim's movements, parking her silver Mini with a black vinyl roof
near the garden centre.

Her assailant, wearing a balaclava, had forced his way in through the driver's
door, pushing her across into the passenger seat.

He drove her to the nearby village of Monkton Combe, on the outskirts of Bath,
where he assaulted her before taking her back to Widcombe.

Detectives believe the attacker has some local knowledge of the Bath area. They
have now compiled a list of eight other unsolved cases in the Bath area
involving attacks on women, including the disappearance of Melanie Hall.

Police spokesman Inspector Keith Jones said: "We are looking at several offences
going back to 1990. We are listing the various offences relating to women in
Bath. Some of them might be linked. We are obviously keeping an open mind.

"What we are saying to the public is look at these dates. Is there a reason why
someone should be in Bath on these dates?

"Do they come home in an agitated state? We want them to contact us. If you
recognise the man in the CD-fit then call us.

"This is a dangerous man and we need to arrest him as soon as possible."


LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              266 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                February 6, 1999

Fears of new terror attacks

BYLINE: Melissa Kite

SECTION: News, Pg.14

LENGTH: 296 words




A REVIEW of security in England was ordered last night as the crisis in the
Northern Ireland peace process deepened.

The Home Office confirmed it would look again at mainland anti-terror measures
amid fears that dissident republicans were gearing up to launch a new offensive.

With all sides due back at Stormont on Monday 15 for a critical debate on future
structures of governments, pressure mounted on the republican movement to begin
disarming and end the deadlock that has delayed the setting up of a ruling
executive at the new Assembly.

The British and Irish governments admitted that all sides faced a struggle if
the March 10 deadline for the transfer of powers from London to Belfast was to
be met.

A Downing Street spokesman said: ''These are difficult times. People need to
face up to reality. Politics has got to solve this problem. Everybody is aware
of the price of failure.''

Mr Ahern, who visited the Province yesterday, reiterated the need for urgent
progress. ''March 10 is the key date. If we don't make progress by that date, we
are into difficult territory,'' he said.

Anxiety over the stalemate in the peace process was further heightened by
growing tensions between the mainstream IRA and republican factions.

Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern is to be pressed for a parliamentary statement
on the terrorist prisoner release clauses of the peace accord after yesterday's
jailing of an IRA gang for the manslaughter of a detective.

Police representatives and political opponents called for fresh pledges from the
premier amid fears that the four gunmen - who include top IRA suspect and
Brixton prison escapee Pearse McAuley - could be released from jail early under
the terms of last year's Good Friday agreement.


LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              267 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            February 7, 1999, Sunday

Terror leader plots attacks on British targets

BYLINE: Insight: David Leppard, Chris Hastings, Jessica Berry and Uki Goni in
Uruguay

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 548 words


THE terrorist leader responsible for bombing two American embassies in Africa is
believed to be plotting to attack British missions in Europe.

Western security sources say Osama Bin Laden has put "high profile" British
targets on a hit list, including embassies in Brussels and Paris.

Evidence that Bin Laden sees Brussels as a "soft target" is understood to have
been collected by the British security services from intercepts of coded
telephone calls made to Britain by Said Mohkles, an Eygptian suspected of having
close links with Bin Laden. He was arrested in South America nine days ago and
the CIA says he was about to fly to London to assemble a terrorist cell.

The CIA suspects Mohkles participated in the 1997 massacre of 58 tourists at
Luxor in Egypt; six Britons died in the attack. He is being held in a police
cell in Uruguay pending a possible extradition to Cairo to face murder charges.

MI5, the domestic intelligence agency, believes Bin Laden is seeking revenge
after Britain supported American missile strikes against his headquarters in
Afghanistan last summer.

Some sources also believe he wants to punish the British because Scotland Yard
arrested Khalid al-Fauwaz, one of his key fixers.

Until recently Fauwaz, 35, lived with his wife and three children in north
London. Now he faces extradition to America after a New York court charged him
with conspiring with Bin Laden and "others unknown" to murder Americans abroad.

The Foreign Office said last week that its officials wished to interview
Mohkles. "We are aware of the arrests, which we are following up. The matter at
the moment is primarily for the Uruguayan authorities who are holding the
detainee," said a spokesman.

Bin Laden already faces charges over the murder of more than 260 people in Kenya
and Tanzania last year. The Sunday Times has obtained 300 pages of FBI documents
which detail the alleged links between Fauwaz, a Saudi businessman and Bin
Laden's terror network.

Fauwaz is accused of plotting the murder of Americans abroad; he denies the
charges but the documents, lodged in a New York court by the FBI, include
statements from a terrorist supergrass and at least two other Bin Laden
terrorist suspects naming Fauwaz as a key player.

These are supported by bank, credit card, telephone and fax records belonging to
the Advice and Reformation Com mittee, a Saudi dissident group which the FBI
claims is a Bin Laden front organisation.

Papers with Bin Laden's signature, obtained by The Sunday Times, show how the
terrorist leader appointed Fauwaz as director of his London office in July 1994.

Computer files seized by the FBI from terrorist suspects in Africa suggest that,
in the months leading up to the American embassy bombings, Fauwaz gave "specific
instructions" to the east African ter rorist cell that carried out the two
atrocities.

The FBI also claims that Fauwaz helped communicate fatwas - religious orders -
from Bin Laden, encouraging his Islamic followers to murder Americans.

The threat to British embassies has heightened. Just before Christmas four in
Africa were closed for security reasons.

Insight: David Leppard, Chris Hastings, Jessica Berry and Uki Goni in Uruguay

The global terrorist Focus, page 19


LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Insight

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              268 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                February 8, 1999

'They kept hitting me with a bat';
 Youth tells of terror as RUC probes attacks

BYLINE: By Ciaran McGuigan

LENGTH: 327 words


THE Carrickfergus teenager beaten with a baseball bat and hammers today said
loyalist paramilitaries were behind the attack.

Stephen Bittles (17), a trainee welder, suffered a head wound and bruising to
his arms and legs when he was beaten in his Glynn Park home.

The attack was the third in as many days in the province.

Three masked men forced their way into Mr Bittle's home shortly before midnight
last night.

The men, two armed with baseball bats and one with a hammer, hit the youth about
12 times as he lay in an upstairs bedroom.

"They burst into the room and hit me on the head with a bat," said Mr Bittles.

"They then went for my arms and legs with the hammer."

His 12-year-old brother, Jonathan, was also in the room at the time of the
attack. He escaped uninjured.

"They pushed Jonathan onto the bed and concentrated on me," said Mr Bittles.

"They didn't speak at all during the attack. But I am sure it was a loyalist
gang behind it.

"Attacks like this happen all the time in this area," he added.

Mr Bittles was taken to the Mater Hospital where he received four staples in a
head wound.

His mother and her partner were also in the house at the time of the attack and
they also escaped injury.

An RUC spokesman described the attack as a paramilitary-style assault.

Police are also investigating two other weekend attacks one on a 50-year-old man
in the New Mossley area of Newtownabbey and the other on an 18-year-old woman in
Craigmore Way, south Belfast.

Both were beaten with sticks and baseball bats and were treated for multiple
bruising.

UK Unionists have called for the paramilitary related parties, including Sinn
Fein, to be excluded from the new Northern Ireland Assembly while the brutal
attacks continue.

UK Unionist Leader Robert McCartney told his party's annual conference that
prisoner releases should also be stopped in the light of the daily beatings and
shootings.


LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              269 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          February 10, 1999, Wednesday

ALL SIDES CONDEMN LOYALIST TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 302 words


A loyalist grenade attack on a Catholic-owned bar in Northern Ireland was
yesterday condemned by all sides in the peace process.

Nine people escaped injury when McNally's pub in Castledawson, Co Londonderry,
was targeted by the renegade terrorist group, the Orange Volunteers, on Monday
night.

Customers including three Turkish lorry drivers were left badly shocked after
the device exploded outside the window.

The bar is owned by former Sinn Fein councillor Mr Francis McNally, who said it
was only because of reinforced glass that no one had been killed.

Irish Foreign Minister Mr David Andrews said the intention of the terrorists had
clearly been to kill and maim.

"The people responsible for these attacks should immediately desist," he said.

"Those who call themselves the Orange Volunteers have no mandate from the
people, and every effort must be made to bring them to justice."

Mr McNally, whose brother Phelim was murdered by loyalists in 1988, said he and
eight customers were inside the bar at the time but escaped unhurt when the
device bounced off the window and exploded on the ground outside.

"We were very lucky. The windows came in around us. Three long-distance lorry
drivers from Istanbul were sitting right by the window where the device exploded
and they were certainly very lucky," he said.

The Orange Volunteers have carried out a number of gun and bomb attacks on homes
and businesses in the south Londonderry area in the past month.

In a statement to a Belfast newsroom, the group claimed responsibility for the
attack and threatened more strikes "against our enemies in Ulster".

A Gaelic sports club was also targeted by the hardline dissidents and a workman
injured, while a gun and bomb attack was launched at a Catholic home in the
area.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              270 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                               February 11, 1999

City mum tells of attack terror
 'm glad they caged the woman who scarred me

SECTION: Crime: Assault, Pg.3

LENGTH: 362 words


AN Aberdeen mother who was scarred for life in a brutal blade attack today
talked for the first time of her nightmare.

Mum-of-two Natalie Wood, 23, said she was glad her attacker had been caged.
Natalie needed stitches and plastic surgery after being slashed in the face by a
former friend, jobless Pheonna McLean.

The vicious attack happened in Aberdeen's Gallowgate benefits office last April.

McLean, of 63 King's Court, Aberdeen, was this week jailed for 12 months at
Aberdeen Sheriff Court after she admitted assaulting Natalie to her injury and
permanent disfigurement.

Natalie today claimed she had been living in fear for the nine months since the
attack while McLean remained on the streets.

"I've been a bag of nerves since it happened and I'm still sitting here
shaking," said Natalie.

"It totally stopped me going out and even now I have to have someone with me all
the time if I go into town. I didn't expect her to get a jail sentence - I'm
just so relieved it's all over and done with and I can get back to normal."

The two women, who had previously been friends, had quarrelled several weeks
before meeting in the Greyfriars House benefit agency office.

Natalie, who lives in Seaton and has two children aged six and three, says the
assault was unprovoked.

Natalie said: "I thought we should let the past be the past and went over to
speak to her but a verbal row broke out.

"The next thing I knew was when she attacked me and I felt blood pouring down my
face.

"I've had to have plastic surgery but I'll always have a scar there."

Aberdeen Sheriff Court heard that McLean had four previous convictions for
assault.

Defence solicitor John McCloone said there had been "bad blood going back around
five years".

He said it was unfortunate the two women had sat beside each other because of
the friction.

There was a verbal exchange between them and they ended up scuffling.

McLean was seen to rummage in her handbag and the fight stopped when she
suddenly thrust her arm in the direction of Wood's face and slashed her with a
needle threader, the court was told.

Natalie was later treated at hospital for a six-inch wound to her face.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1999 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              271 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     February 13, 1999, Saturday Edition 1

Terror sex attack man jailed

BYLINE: By Hilary Clixby

SECTION: REGIONAL NEWS, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 158 words


   A MAN was jailed for 18 months yesterday for molesting a young mother after
creeping into her home at night as she slept.

Michael Carter had entered her ground-floor flat through an insecure window.

The woman, whose eight-year-old daughter was sleeping beside her, awoke to find
him sitting on the bed.

The top button of her nightdress was undone and his hand was on her chest.

Newcastle Crown Court heard Carter claimed he had been passing the flat, noticed
it was open and went inside to help, believing there to have been a burglary.

Carter, 28, of Bowfell Close, Kingston Park, Newcastle, denied indecent assault
but was convicted after a short trial.

His name will now be placed on the register of sex offenders for 10 years.

Passing sentence, Judge Esmond Faulks said Carter had "utterly terrified" the
victim.

His crime had been compounded by the fact that her young child had been sleeping
in the same bed.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              272 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                               February 16, 1999

Dog bite terror: 'Destroy Alsatian'
 GRIMSBY: NEW ATTACK ON CHILD

BYLINE: By Laura Clark

SECTION: Animals: dogs, Pg.3

LENGTH: 361 words


PRESSURE is mounting for an Alsatian to be put down after a nine-year -old
Grimsby girl became the latest victim in a string of attacks.

Danielle Snell was playing with friends near her Alder View home when the dog
sank his teeth into her forearm, causing a deep gash.

She was taken to hospital in a state of shock and now doctors say she will need
a skin graft as stitches proved impossible.

Mum Mandy Bartlett said: "She had a coat on and there weren't many marks on
that, but when she took her jacket off she looked like she had been axed."

The Bradley Park Junior School pupil was kept in hospital for two nights in case
of infection.

"She can't have stitches because the dog swallowed a big chunk of skin," said
Mrs Bartlett.

"Danielle's now wary to go out - especially as the dog could still be roaming
the streets."

Aunt Dawn Kiss said: "If it were not for one of the other girls dragging the dog
off her, who knows what could have happened?"

Mrs Kiss said young children playing outside were at risk as long as the dog,
believed to belong to nearby residents, was in the area.

Another resident told the Evening Telegraph the same dog bit her leg last
summer, leaving her in need of eight stitches.

She reported the incident to the police.

"It was more the fright than the injury and I dare not walk past the house now."

A third mother, Denise McQueen, also of the Dolby Vale area, said her
15-year-old daughter, Zoe Sanders, was targeted by the dog in December.

"She was outside and the dog just flew out and bit her leg," she said.

"It didn't pierce the skin, but it was a really large bite.

"There was a massive mark on her leg and some of the bruise is still there. Zoe
was really shocked and shaken up," she continued.

"I told the police and they said there was not an awful lot they could do about
it.

"It seems it's going to take a tragedy before something is done about this."

A spokeswoman for Humberside Police said the incident involving Danielle was
being investigated.

If appropriate, a file would be prepared for presentation before magistrates,
who alone had the powers to make an order to destroy the dog.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Danielle nursing her injured arm with her mum Mandy G090299J

                    Copyright 1999 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              273 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          February 17, 1999, Wednesday

Britain fears new terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Michael Evans, Defence editor

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 306 words


THE eruption of protests in London and other capitals over the deportation to
Turkey of Abdullah Ocalan, the leader of the Kurdish Workers' Party (PKK), has
raised the serious prospect of an escalation in violence in this country.

There is also concern that the PKK might repeat their attacks on holidaymakers
in Turkish resorts which caused a number of British injuries at Marmaris in
1994.

A Foreign Office warning urges holidaymakers bound for Turkish resorts to be
vigilant. This has been underlined recently by Iraq's threats of terrorism
because of Turkey's permission for its bases to be used for US and British
combat air patrols.

However, the Foreign Office and other government departments yesterday were
taking a deliberately unprovocative line to avoid worsening what was already a
potentially dangerous situation.

Although the protests were being seen as a carefully staged demonstration to
gain maximum publicity for the rebel leader, the security authorities are aware
of the potential for increased violence as Turkey prepares to try Mr Ocalan on
terrorist charges.

The many Kurdish supporters of the PKK living in Britain are regarded by the
police and MI5 as legitimate dissidents, who are allowed to stay in this country
provided they pose no threat to Britain's security and do not become involved in
plotting violent acts abroad.

The revamped Prevention of Terrorism Act specifically includes action against
people living in Britain as political refugees who are suspected of inciting
violence in their countries of birth or elsewhere.

With the latest demonstrations over the detention of Mr Ocalan, the fear being
expressed yesterday was that support for the PKK leader could raise the
temperature over the Kurdish issue and could escalate to acts of terrorism in
this country.


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              274 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               February 24, 1999

Death threats carved on mum;
 Terror gang carry out knife attack

BYLINE: By Martin Breen

LENGTH: 374 words


A YOUNG mother was today recovering after a gruesome attack when masked and
armed men carved a death threat on her arms and legs.

The sickening attack was carried out by an eight-strong terror gang, four of
whom carried rifles, after they forced their way into a house at O'Donaghue
Park, around 2am.

The 31-year-old mother of four was held down by the masked men who then used a
Rambo type hunting knife to inscribe the threat on her arms and legs.

Unionist politicians have blamed republican terrorists for the savage assault.

She was forced to endure the horrific ordeal after the men forced their way into
the house looking for one of the young woman's relatives. He was not there.

The victim was threatened by the gang who asked for the man using a nickname
before carrying out the knife attack.

She received hospital treatment for the knife cuts at Daisy Hill hospital. The
woman wasn't detained after medics treated the surface wounds, and it is
understood that she will not be scarred.

Locals said the name of the man carved on her body had been staying in Co Louth.

He is believed to be a taxi driver in the south Armagh area.

Her four young children, aged from two to 12 years, were asleep in the house at
the time.

Bessbrook Ulster Unionist councillor Danny Kennedy said the chilling attack
indicated that republicans had returned to punishment attacks after a lull in
beatings and shootings earlier this month.

He said: "There are no other terrorist groups in the area who could have carried
out this attack. It's clearly the work of republican paramilitaries who are
administering their own form of local justice."

DUP assembly member Paul Berry said "animals" were behind the knife attack and
called for security to be stepped up along the south Armagh border.

South Armagh based victims groups FAIR added that the fact the gang was armed
underlined their calls for immediate decommissioning.

Spokesman William Frazer described the attack as "savage" but said it didn't
appear to be sectarian.

The RUC was today expected to begin a search for the blood stained knife used in
the incident and has appealed for anyone with any information to contact them,
on 01232 650222.


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              275 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               February 26, 1999

BLIND WOMAN'S GUIDE DOG BLOW;
 Animal's terror after city centre attack

BYLINE: RENNY JONES

SECTION: News, Pg.24

LENGTH: 276 words



A BLIND woman has been forced to give up her guide dog after the animal was
attacked by another dog in Broadmead.

The specially-trained dog has been retired after a fight with a beggar's dog.

This is the second guide dog that the 43-year-old woman from Bedminster, who did
not want to be named, has lost.

As the woman has a job in the city centre, she needs a dog to help her get to
work.

The latest incident took place in Broadmead and involved a dog belonging to a
man begging in the street.

She said: "We were minding our own business when a dog shot out of nowhere.
There was an awful scrap on the pavement as the other dog wasn't on a lead.

"My mother and aunt were with me and they said it was a very aggressive attack.

"I had to pull her off and get away from the scene."

She said the dog, called Lisa, seemed all right at first but she later realised
it was scared of other dogs.

She had been given Lisa, a three-year-old Labrador, after her previous dog Ellie
had to be retired.

Ellie was so frightened after being kicked by a drunken man in the city centre
she was unable to lead her.

The woman said: "It takes up to 10 months and a lot of sweat and tears to train
a guide dog for the blind.

"And yet thanks to this irresponsible person all that can be ruined in a moment
and lost."

The woman will now have to get around with a white cane until another guide dog
becomes available.

Rodney Stone. Bristol City Council spokesman, said it was an offence for dogs
not to be kept on a leash.

He said dog wardens regularly offered advice and dog leads to people with
animals sleeping rough in the city.


LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              276 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                               February 26, 1999

Schoolboy tells of dog attack terror

BYLINE: By Joanna Snicker

SECTION: Animals: DOG ATTACKS, Pg.03

LENGTH: 337 words


A SCHOOLBOY has spoken of his terror at being attacked by an Alsatian dog as he
walked alone through Derby last night.

Adrian Gauhl (11), of Kirk Leys Avenue South, Spondon, was left with a series of
one-inch cuts to his left arm and leg.

The attack happened in the Market Place at around 9.50pm.

Adrian had just bought a milkshake and was walking near to the Assembly Rooms
when the white dog, which was not on a lead, came from behind him and nipped his
arm.

Adrian, who is a pupil at West Park Community School, Spondon, says that the
dog, then attacked him more than three times as he tried to get away.

He said he had been in town for about 30 minutes and had bought a burger. "Then
I started walking to my friend's house who lives around the corner from the
Assembly Rooms," he said.

"I didn't know a dog was there until it came up behind me and nipped me, then I
tried to carry on but he attacked me again until I was huddled in a ball on the
ground.

"Some men tried to get the dog off me and I think the owner was trying to help
as well.

"I managed to get into a phone box, but the dog was still trying to get me.

"He eventually went away and I think he got knocked over."

The youngster was taken to Derbyshire Royal Infirmary and was discharged after
treatment around 1am.

Adrian said the attack had now left him terrified of dogs and he wanted the
Alsatian muzzled or put down.

His mother Angela (30), who also has a daughter Julie (eight), said today that
she was still in a state of shock.

She said: "The police came to the house around 11pm and explained what had
happened. I couldn't believe it, I was shocked and horrified."

PC Ray Ford, of Derby police, confirmed that the dog had been run over after the
attack, but said the owner managed to get it away from the scene.

He said: "This is just not acceptable at all, the boy and his mother are very
shocked and upset.

"We need to find out where the dog is now and who owns it."

Police say the woman who was with the dog was blonde and had a Scots accent.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: INJURED: Adrian with his left arm and leg bandaged.

                     Copyright 1999 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              277 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               February 26, 1999

WOMAN, 23
IN KNIFE TERROR
 INDECENT ASSAULT: Young mum attacked by tattooed man in alleyway

SECTION: Pg.1

LENGTH: 274 words


A TERRIFIED young mum has been indecently assaulted at knifepoint in a Plymouth
alleyway.

She was attacked by a tattooed man in daylight just as shops were closing in a
walkway off Marlborough Street, Devonport yesterday.

The 23-year-old mum suffered cuts to her face as she desperately fought off the
knifeman.

Today she spoke out after escaping serious injury in the ordeal.

She said: "I guess my first reaction was relief because I hadn't suffered
anything really, really extreme. I felt relieved that he had gone and that is
all I can say.

"There was no-one around - for the first time ever in Marlborough Street it was
completely empty."

The attacker struck as she was walking down the alleyway just after 5pm.

Although she was shaken up she has given a detailed description of the man, who
had distinctive tattoos and is thought to be local.

Recognise

Police are appealing for anyone who thinks they recognise the man to get in
touch - even if they do it anonymously. They are also asking for witnesses to
come forward.

A police spokesman said: "The man produced a large knife which he used to
inflict a wound. She was also subject to an indecent assault.

"Bearing in mind how serious this offence could have been we would obviously
like to hear from anyone who knows someone of this description."

The knifeman is white, aged between 23 and 24, and 5ft 10 to 11ins tall. He was
unshaven, with shoulder-length brown wavy hair, which appeared greasy,

He had bushy eyebrows, brown eyes and spoke with a local accent. He had a tattoo
of an anchor on the back of his right hand and a tattoo of a tear drop near his
right eye.

- Turn to Page Two

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CRIME SCENE: The alley in Marlborough Street, Devonport, where the
attack took place Picture John Allen

                         Copyright 1999 Evening Herald

                              278 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               February 26, 1999

Expert in alert on pox terror attacks

BYLINE: John von Radowitz

SECTION: News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 348 words



TERRORISTS could return the scourge of smallpox to a world now largely
defenceless against it, a leading expert warned last night.

Dr Donald Henderson, the man credited with eradicating the disease 25 years ago,
said the threat of ''bioterrorists'' had been gravely underestimated.

The weapons most likely to be used by such a ruthless extremist group were
smallpox and anthrax, he warned.

In both cases, the deadly virus or bacterium could be released without being
noticed and drift undetected throughout a city, infecting thousands of victims.

Dr Henderson said most agencies assumed a biological and chemical attack should
be handled in the same way, with a single ''chembio'' expert put in charge.

Writing in the journal Science, he said this approach was a ''serious
misapprehension''.

While a chemical attack was likely to have a rapid effect at or just downwind of
the target site, bioweapons could cause illness days or even weeks after their
release, he said.

Dr Henderson, director of the Johns Hopkins Center for Civilian Biodefense
Studies in Baltimore, Maryland, USA, painted a frightening picture of what might
happen in the event of a terrorist attack with smallpox or anthrax.

He wrote: ''The release could be silent and would almost certainly be
undetected. The cloud would be invisible, odourless, and tasteless. It would
behave much like a gas in penetrating interior areas. No-one would know until
days or weeks later that anyone had been infected.

''Then patients would begin appearing in emergency rooms and physicians' offices
with symptoms of a strange disease that few physicians had ever seen."

Special measures would be needed for patient care and hospitalisation, obtaining
laboratory confirmation about the identify of microbes unknown to most
laboratories and providing vaccine or antibiotics to large portions of the
population, he said.

The threat was real, he said, given the massive bioweapons industry in the
former Soviet Union, the biological weapons programme in Iraq, and expanding
research in other countries.


LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              279 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     February 27, 1999, Saturday Edition 1

Judges throw out appeal by animal rights bomber - 18 years' jail right for
terror attack, says Appeal Court

BYLINE: By Cathy Gordon

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 361 words

Animal rights activist Barry Horne, jailed for 18 years for a firebombing
campaign, yesterday lost his appeal against conviction and sentence.  Lord
Justice Tuckey, Mrs Justice Smith and Mr Justice Gray, sitting in the Court of
Appeal in London, rejected his claim that his conviction was unsafe and his
sentence too long.  Horne, 46, of Northampton, who was accused of causing
millions of pounds of damage to shops on the Isle of Wight in 1994, was jailed
in December 1997 to what is believed to be the longest prison term for an animal
rights extremist. The former dustman, who staged a hunger strike last year in a
protest over vivisection, was convicted at Bristol Crown Court of arson and
attempted arson.  Horne was in the dock yesterday, flanked by four security
officers, to hear the court rule against him.  The court was packed with his
supporters who earlier handed out leaflets declaring Horne innocent of the Isle
of Wight arson attacks.  After Lord Justice Tuckey gave the ruling of the court,
some members of the public stamped their feet and there were shouts of: "It's
disgusting," and "Shame on British justice." Horne claimed in his appeal that
the judge at his trial, Judge Simon Darwall-Smith, had given a misdirection to
the jury during his summing-up, rendering the conviction unsafe.  Lord Justice
Tuckey said that although the judge had made an error during his summing-up, it
did not render his conviction unsafe. Of the appeal against sentence, Lord
Justice Tuckey said: "We can see no reason for thinking that the sentence in
this case was obviously too long.  "It seems to us that although it was a long
sentence it was a sentence which was the appropriate sentence for these very
serious offences." The Crown contested Horne's appeal, submitting that the
evidence against him was overwhelming.  Sentencing Horne, the trial judge had
told him: "This was urban terrorism for a particular cause and objective. You
put communities in terror. But I do accept you did not intend an attack on human
life." During his trial. Horne denied the Isle of Wight offences but admitted
two offences of attempted arson in Bristol.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              280 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 28, 1999, Sunday

TERRORIST SMALLPOX ATTACK ON WEST 'COULD KILL MILLIONS'

BYLINE: By Steve Connor Science Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 528 words


A LEADING scientific adviser to the US government has issued a dire warning that
Western nations are unprepared for terrorist attacks with biological weapons.

Rogue states and fanatical cults could subvert the biological weapons expertise
of the former Soviet Union to unleash bioterror in the West, said Donald
Henderson of Baltimore's Johns Hopkins Center for Civilian Biodefence Studies.
Writing in the journal Science, Dr Henderson said that countries are
particularly vulnerable to a smallpox attack because the decline in smallpox
immunisation has meant that few people are now resistant to the virus.

Dr Henderson, who was instrumental in the global campaign to eradicate smallpox,
cited senior sources from the former Soviet Union who have admitted the scale of
the Soviet Union's biological weapons capability. "Ken Alibek, a former first
deputy chief of research and production for the Russian biological weapons
programme, has reported that smallpox virus had been mounted in intercontinental
ballistic missiles and in bombs for strategic use," he said.

Many of the biological weapons facilities in Russia have experienced financial
hardships since the collapse of the Soviet Union and many experts have left.
"Where the scientists have gone is unknown, but Libya, Iran, Syria, Iraq and
North Korea have actively been recruiting such expertise," he said. "A mixture
of rogue states and well-financed religious cults with scientists desperately
seeking funds creates a volatile situation with potentially serious
consequences."

Soviet laboratories possessed the expertise to produce the most dangerous
microbes in huge quantities and any group with the money could have bought large
enough quantities to pose a considerable threat to a large city, Dr Henderson
said. "No mechanisms currently exist for screening to intercept such material at
state or national borders," he added.

Smallpox poses an unusually serious threat, Dr Henderson said, partly because
virtually everyone is now susceptible, with vaccinations ending more than 20
years ago as a result of the global eradication of the disease.  "Because of
waning immunity, it is probable that no more than 20 per cent of the population
is protected. Among the unprotected, case fatality rates after infection with
smallpox are 30 per cent," he said.

After an initial outbreak of smallpox caused by a terrorist attack, a second
wave of infections would occur as a result of the virus being passed from one
person to another. "From experiences with smallpox imported into Europe over the
past 40 years, it is estimated that there would be at least 10 secondary cases
for every case in the first wave," Dr Henderson said.

A surprise attack would probably fail to elicit the emergency vaccination
programme needed to control the further spread of the disease.

"Few physicians have ever seen smallpox and few, if any, have ever received
training in its diagnosis. Moreover, there are no longer any manufacturers of
smallpox vaccine. Best estimates indicate that substantial additional supplies
could not be ensured sooner than 36 months from the initial attack," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              281 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        March 1, 1999, Monday Edition 1

Young gran's terror attack

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 307 words


   Thugs ambushed a lone woman, punching and kicking her in the head as they
tried to steal her handbag.

The 43-year-old grandmother was pounced on by two men lurking in a shop doorway
in Cross Street, Newcastle.

She bravely hung on to the bag while the men continued lashing out at her. They
were joined by a teenage girl who police believe was part of the gang.

Det Con Sue Fryer of Newcastle's Market Street CID said the woman was saved from
further injuries when a car drove past and the driver sounded his horn, forcing
the attackers to flee.

"This was a random, unprovoked assault" she said. "The victim was treated in
Newcastle General Hospital for cuts and bruises We need to trace anyone who was
in the area of the Flip shop in Cross Street between 7.15pm and 7.20pm on Friday
night and may have seen anything which may help us catch those responsible."

Police particularly want to hear from a young woman, who may have been French,
who came to the aid of the victim after the gang ran away, and the driver of
(c)(c)(c) TURN TO PAGE 2

the car who managed to scare them off.

One attacker was about 5ft 6in, in his late teens. He had a pale complexion,
with short, fair hair.

He wore a red padded jacket, blue/grey Chino trousers and white trainers. The
other was about 5ft 10in and slim with mousey hair. He wore a navy tracksuit and
dark trainers.

The girl was 5ft 2in to 5ft 4in, about 17 and slim. She wore a baseball cap, a
navy zip-top tracksuit with white chevrons on the trousers and white trainers.

Police believe the victim may have been in the wrong place at the wrong time.

She was walking through the city to meet her husband when the attack took place
last Friday at around 7.30pm.

Anyone with information should contact Market Street CID on [0191] 214 6555.

(c) From Page One

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              282 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            March 3, 1999, Wednesday

DEAF MAN'S ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 116 words


A deaf and mute man has been left terrified to leave his home after he was
viciously attacked on the way to his local pub.

The man, who has not been identified, was knocked to ground as he made his way
to the pub in Dudley Road, Birmingham.

The attack has been condemned by police and his nephew, who said his uncle was
now too scared to leave the family home.

He said: "He was just going for a quick pint and he was attacked for no reason.
It is absolutely appalling.

"He is a very sharp and lively character but he has now been left bedridden and
afraid to leave his front door."

Sgt Garry Higgins, of Harborne police, said it was a despicable and cowardly
attack.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              283 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            March 3, 1999, Wednesday

GIRL, 15 IN CITY RAPE ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Mark Langford Crime Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 226 words


POLICE are hunting a man who dragged a 15-year-old girl on to waste land in
Birmingham and raped her.

He struck as the girl walked near Cole Valley Road in Hall Green around 5.30pm
yesterday after visiting a friend.

The man forced her on to land at the side of the River Cole, threw her to the
ground and carried out his sexual attack on her.

Detectives are now waiting to interview the girl, who lives in the Hall Green
area and had been returning home, to establish precisely what happened.

A West Midlands Police spokesman said: "It is very early days in the inquiry yet
and we need to talk to the girl to find out exactly what happened.

Vicious

"This was a nasty, vicious attack on a young girl and we would ask anyone who
may have seen anything to contact us as soon as possible.

"It happened at a time of day when people would have been going home from work
and was still relatively light."

The attacker is described as being of mixed race, aged between 25 and 35 years,
5ft 8ins, and of medium build. He had an ear ring and his ears are said to stick
out prominently.

The man wore a thigh-length black leather jacket and black jeans.

Anyone who was in the Cole Valley Road area at that time and and may have seen
or heard anything is asked to call detectives at Kings Heath police station on
0121 626 4480.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              284 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 March 4, 1999

Trapped in the echo of violence
 ATTACK: Disabled man's terror after vicious assault in the street

BYLINE: N By Jayne Freer, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Pg.13

LENGTH: 395 words


A DISABLED man who was beaten in a sickening street assault has told how he is a
virtual prisoner in his own home - almost four months after the attack.

Robert, 24, who is too afraid of reprisals to reveal his surname, says he never
realised just how badly becoming a victim of crime would affect him.

Despite extensive efforts by police hunting his attackers, detectives say they
are no nearer to tracking them down and have renewed appeals for witnesses.

Unprovoked

Robert suffered a broken nose, jaw and cheekbone in the unprovoked beating in
Lipson Road as he walked to the chip shop to get his tea.

He was left cowering on the floor during the two-man beating, unable to flee his
attackers because of a twisted spine, for which he is due to undergo major
surgery soon.

Robert says he was lucky in the sense that the beating didn't leave him
physically crippled for life - but says the mental torture is still immense.

He said: "I think about the attack a lot. I am not one of those people that
dwells on things, but I cannot forget this.

"I thought it would take me a couple of weeks to get over it, but it is with me
every day at the back of my mind.

"I keep thinking why did it happen, why me and why did I have to be there at
that time and that place?

"I want to be able to go out and enjoy things like the seaside, but I don't. I
feel very wide open. I love going out but I just don't."

The attack happened on Friday, November 13, at around 6.50pm in Lipson Road,
near Ebrington Street.

Investigating officer Detective Constable Stuart Elford, of Charles Cross CID,
said: "This was a totally unprovoked attack on a person who has had enough to
cope with in his life already and who has been left terrified and is a virtual
prisoner in his own home.

Suffer

"People forget just how much victims of crime suffer for a long time after the
incident."

He said he had received some information that one of the offenders may have a
black and white mongrel dog.

One was described as white, 25-30, 6ft 1 to 2ins tall, of stocky build with
light brown/blond hair cut to a grade one, which was receding at the sides. He
had a Scottish accent.

The second was white, 18-24, 5ft 8 to 10ins tall, of medium build, with a
brown/black collar-length bob with a centre parting.

% Anyone with information is asked to contact DC Elford at Charles Cross CID on
Plymouth 0990 777444.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BRUTAL: A CD-fit of one of Robert's attackers Robert feels a prisoner
in his own home Picture John Allen DL62022

                         Copyright 1999 Evening Herald

                              285 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                 March 4, 1999

Terror gang in vandal attacks

SECTION: Crime: VANDALISM, Pg.7

LENGTH: 220 words


PENSIONERS and children in a Carmarthenshire village are being terrorised by a
gang of young thugs blamed for a spate of vandalism.

Carway community leaders have been left a bill of up to GBP 3,000 after the
latest incident at the village hall.

In the past week youngsters have kicked through the main door of the hall and
wrecked the roof.

Tiles have been smashed and felt roofing ripped off, leaving rain pouring into
the well-used community centre.

The attack comes in the same week that a major project aimed at improving
village life was launched.

Residents and community development officers have just put the finishing touches
to a detailed questionnaire aimed at giving people the chance to say what they
would like to see developed in the area.

It is the first stage of an ambitious scheme to rejuvenate the valley village
and attract Millennium investment.

Village forum chairman and county councillor Ian Evans said he was disgusted by
the thugs' actions.

"There has been continual vandalism and it is centring on the village hall," he
said.

"There is a gang of youngsters who go there and hammer on the doors and create
disruptions for those using the hall.

"It is frightening for the old people.

"The roof is the latest to be damaged and now water is coming in. We fear the
block flooring has been ruined."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1999 South Wales Evening Post

                              286 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 March 4, 1999

Woman flees terror attack

SECTION: News, Pg.15

LENGTH: 111 words



A STUDENT managed to escape after a man dragged her to the ground and wrapped a
strap around her neck.

The woman, aged 24, was attacked in the Phoenix Wharf area of Bristol at 1am
Tuesday as she returned home after using a public telephone in Queen Square.

The student, who was shocked and distressed by the ordeal, managed to struggle
free and the man ran off.

The man was white, aged in his late twenties, 5ft 8-10ins tall, medium build
with short collar-length brown hair and a pale complexion.

He was wearing a smart dark-coloured knee-length jacket and dark trousers.

Anyone with information should contact Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              287 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 March 8, 1999

'Race attack' terror;
 GERMAN YOUTH HURT IN STREET BEATING

BYLINE: Paul Herbert

SECTION: News, Pg.2

LENGTH: 366 words




A TEENAGER with a German father was beaten up by youths in a racist attack in a
West seaside town.

Nineteen-year-old Chris Bertzick suffered head injuries when he was hit with a
heavy object as he walked home in Clevedon early yesterday.

He said the youths began to chase him after one of them - who Chris can identify
by name - shouted racist abuse at him.

As Chris recovered at home yesterday after a night in Bristol's Southmead
hospital, his English mother Mrs Sheila Bertzick called on the police to take
strong action against her son's attackers.

She said the attack was just the latest in a series of racist incidents the
family has suffered since moving to England from Germany in 1993.

And she is angry that police did not arrest the youth who shouted the abuse
three weeks ago, when her son told officers at Clevedon police station that he
had used similar racist insults against him.

"Chris is blond-haired and blue-eyed, but the police need to realise, especially
after the Stephen Lawrence report, that racism is not just directed against
black people," said Mrs Bertzick.

The youth who shouted abuse was among a group of around 20 loitering in Clevedon
town centre as Chris left the Grapevine wine bar shortly after 1am yesterday.

As he walked home to the family's Victorian house in Queen's Road, the youths
chased him.

Chris started to run, but they caught up with him as he reached the home of some
family friends near the foot of Queen's Road.

Two of the youths - including the one who had shouted - grabbed him and began
beating him up, while the rest looked on.

Hearing the commotion outside, family friend Paul Donovan came to the door and
helped Chris inside.

Mrs Bertzick said it took police half an hour to get to the scene, as the gang
pounded on the Donovans' door and shouted "Let's get the German out".

Chris said last night that he had no problems when he went out in Weston-
super-Mare or Bristol, only in Clevedon.

Mrs Bertzick, aged 38, whose 44-year-old husband Manfred is a chemical engineer,
said: "I am extremely worried.

"If Paul had not opened the door Chris may have been critically injured or even
killed."


LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              288 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 March 11, 1999

Ulster women in Paris terror;
 Brutal attack on evening stroll

BYLINE: By Una Bradley

LENGTH: 415 words


TWO Ulster women were today recovering from a horrific assault in Paris which
has left them traumatised.

Lindsay Busche (17) and 28-year-old Gillian Scott were savagely attacked in the
French capital last week as they used a public phone.

Secretary Lindsay, from Lisburn, was thrown down two flights of concrete steps
in an undeground Metro station.

Today, her distraught father Gary demanded that the man responsible, believed to
be in his 20s, be put behind bars.

A man has been charged by French police with the assault and released on bail.

Lindsay and Newtownards woman Gillian - a mother-of-one - were holidaying in the
French capital with Gillian's mother, Grace, when the incident happened last
Thursday.

The two women were strolling along the upmarket - but quiet - Madeleine district
around 11pm when they were approached by a well- dressed man.

According to Grace, the girls thought he was friendly as he told them "he liked
tourists".

After offering to help them use a public phone, he dragged Gillian down to the
ground by her hair and kicked her viciously in the head.

Said Grace: "Gillian was completely knocked out and the next thing she
remembers, she saw him dragging Lindsay around the corner.

"He was straddling Lindsay and punching her in the face - and she's terribly
fragile.

"When Gillian got around the corner, the man was throwing Lindsay down two
flights of stairs in the Metro station.

"At first the security guards couldn't get to them as they were on the wrong
side of the barriers, but the police arrived within a few minutes."

Mr Busche said it was Lindsay's first trip away from home - and now she was
afraid to leave her bedroom.

The teenager was so traumatised she had been suffering panic attacks.

Mr Busche said: "We sent her away a happy 17- year-old and she's come home a
nervous wreck.

"She was badly bruised and was treated in hospital in Paris, but it's the
psychological scars we're most worried about."

A Foreign Office spokesman confirmed a man had been charged with assault in a
public place.

The French authorities were still deciding if the case would by tried through
the courts or the less serious police tribunal system.

Said Mr Busche: "We're trying to get in touch with solicitors who speak French
and who are familiar with the French system.

"It's very frustrating to be this far away and to feel so powerless - but we are
adamant that justice must be done."


LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              289 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             March 15, 1999, Monday

GUN GANGS IN TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 157 words


IRA terror squads have been blamed for four gun and mutilation attacks during
the weekend.

The anti-terror group Families Against Intimidation and Terror claims the IRA is
planning more in the coming week.

In the latest attack a 20-year-old man was shot by a masked gang in Londonderry.

The RUC said a number of men, one armed with a handgun, forced their way into a
house in the Dove Gardens area of the city on Saturday night.

Their victim was dragged down stairs by the masked men before he was shot in the
foot, said an RUC spokesman.

In west Belfast, two other men were admitted to hospital with gunshot wounds
after they were attacked in the Poleglass and Andersonstown districts.

The fourth victim was attacked in Newry.

Last night Fait claimed that while the world's media was focused on Washington
for St Patrick's Day celebrations and talks with President Bill Clinton more
attacks would take place.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              290 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 March 16, 1999

Solicitor murdered in terrorist bomb attack;
 FBI CONSULTED: senior police officer to carry out investigation

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 321 words


THE RUC Chief Constable says a senior officer from an outside force will conduct
the investigation into the murder of a high-profile solicitor in a bomb attack.

In addition, Sir Ronnie Flanagan disclosed he has been in contact with the
Federal Bureau of Investigation in the USA to discuss any expertise it can offer
in the hunt for the killers of Rosemary Nelson.

In a call last night to the BBC in Belfast, accompanied by a recognised code
word, the renegade Loyalist Red Hand Defenders claimed responsibility for the
bombing.

The 40-year-old mother-of-three died in hospital yesterday from horrific
injuries two hours after a booby trap bomb ripped her silver BMW apart as she
drove away from her home in Lurgan, Co Armagh.

She suffered extensive leg and stomach injuries and, despite the efforts of
medical staff, died in the Craigavon Area Hospital with her accountant husband
Paul at her side.

Her car had been parked outside her home over the weekend while she was away in
Co Donegal with her husband.

The blast occurred 50 yards from the primary school where her daughter, Sarah,
eight, was on her lunch break and where her sister is a teacher.

Mrs Nelson's two sons, aged 11 and 13, were away on a school skiing trip in
France when news of their mother's murder was broken. Arrangements were being
made to return them home early.

Last year Mrs Nelson, who had recently joined solicitors who expressed concern
about security force collusion in the murder of Belfast human rights solicitor
Pat Finucane ten years ago, said her life was in danger.

In a statement to UN investigators, she accused some RUC officers of questioning
her professional integrity and said she had had death threats.

Paul O'Connor, of the Pat Finucane Centre, said last night: "Rosemary has made a
number of complaints both to the UN last year and more recently in telephone
discussions we have had with her."


LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              291 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             March 22, 1999, Monday

EYE FEAR FOR MAN IN PUB ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Phil Banner

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 140 words


A MAN may lose the sight of an eye after a beer glass was rammed into his face
by 10 thugs in a Birmingham pub.

Justin Marum, aged 28, was attacked after falling asleep in a pool room at the
Malt Shovel, in Brighton Road, Balsall Heath.

AThe gang beat him up and one pushed a pint glass in his face.

Mr Marum, of in Blossom Avenue, Selly Oak, was taken to Selly Oak Hospital after
the 7.30pm attack.

He was later transferred to the ophthalmic ward at City Hospital where he was
expected to undergo surgery.

Supt Pat Wing, of Acocks Green Police, said today: "This man received an
appalling injury and it is feared he may lose the sight of his eye.

"The attack on him appears to be unprovoked and is a complete mystery at this
stage."

He added: "He stood no chance of defending himself against so many men."

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              292 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                 March 29, 1999

Student tells of mugging terror
 Knife used in city attack

BYLINE: By Ewan Cameron

SECTION: Crime: Robbery, Pg.5

LENGTH: 345 words


A TERRIFIED Aberdeen student teacher today told how a knife was pressed against
his throat during a brutal assault by two teenage muggers.

Roger Carlund's head was smashed against a brick wall and he was repeatedly
punched in the face as the thugs robbed him of less than GBP 20.

Mr Carlund, 49, who was returning home after a night out, was bundled into
Harlaw Academy grounds on Albyn Place and set upon.

The attack, which lasted around five minutes, left him drenched in blood.

"It was completely unprovoked and extremely vicious," he said. "When they held
the knife to my throat I pleaded with them not to cut me."

The incident happened just after midnight on Friday as he walked back to his
Hazlehead home from town.

He said: "I saw two people walking towards me but thought nothing of it. The
next thing I knew they were demanding money from me.

"They pinned me against a wall with my hands behind my back then started banging
my head against the wall. When that stopped one of them began to punch me in my
face."

Mr Carlund, who is completing a postgraduate course in primary teaching at
Westerton Primary, said throughout the assault both attackers "were screaming
like wild things" and one was holding a curved blade to his throat.

"My tie was strung around my neck and I could hardly breathe and they were
standing on me so I couldn't move.

"When the knife came out I just started shouting 'Please don't cut me, please
don't cut me'. The whole thing felt so unreal, almost like watching it in a
film," he said.

"I just can't believe this could have happened in Aberdeen."

The attack ended when Mr Carlund handed over his wallet, which contained less
than GBP 20. The robbers ran away towards town, leaving their blood-stained
victim to stumble out on to Albyn Place to get help.

A passing taxi driver saw Mr Carlund and alerted police. He was detained
overnight at Aberdeen Royal Infirmary where he needed three stitches in his
cheek. He also suffered a black eye and bruising.

The muggers are in their late teens, with short dark hair.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1999 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              293 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                                 April 1, 1999

Mugging victim living in terror
 Police slam 'cowardly' attack on woman

BYLINE: By Chris Bucktin, News Reporter

SECTION: Crime: Mugging, Pg.17

LENGTH: 338 words


MUGGERS have left a disabled woman living in fear after she was attacked just
yards from her west Hull home.

Fifty-six-year-old Janet Henderson, who is blind in one eye, had returned to her
home off Hessle Road, after enjoying a evening out at bingo, when the two
robbers struck.

Mrs Henderson, who is on income support, had GBP 230 stolen in the attack.

Now a distraught Mrs Henderson has told the Mail that since the attack the only
time she has dared to venture out from her home was when she was accompanied by
her daughter.

"As I was making my way to the back door, all I heard was one of the youths
shout 'grab her'," said Mrs Henderson.

"Before I knew it they had wrenched my bag off my shoulder and left me sprawled
over the fence. I didn't put up a fight, I would have had no chance.

"The worst thing was they took me from the side in which I can't see, it was so
unexpected."

Mystery surrounds the events following the robbery, which happened shortly
before 10pm on Monday, as during the early hours of the morning Mrs Henderson's
gas and electricity cards, both of which contained no address, were returned
through her letter box.

Detective Inspector Alan Brookes, from Queens Gardens police station, said it
was a nasty and cowardly attack on an elderly woman who was unable to defend
herself.

He said: "I would ask any females that are wandering around this area during the
hours of darkness to be mindful of this attack and they should take suitable
precautions.

"I would ask for anyone who has seen any males acting suspiciously in the area
to contact us," he said.

One of the men is described as about 5ft 7ins tall, with short dark hair and he
was wearing a padded jacket which was yellow on the bottom and a darker colour
on the top.

There was no description given of the other man.

Anyone with information should can contact the police at Queens Gardens on
(01482) 220500.

People can also call Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111. Calls are free, you do not
have to give your name and you could claim a cash reward

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1999 Hull Daily Mail

                              294 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 April 2, 1999

He just kept on lunging at me
 STABBING: Butcher tells of terror at hands of crazed attacker

BYLINE: N By Jayne Freer Crime Reporter

SECTION: Pg.15

LENGTH: 361 words


A BUTCHER stabbed five times outside a Plymouth community centre has spoken for
the first time about his terror.

Andy, 29, of Keyham, was stabbed with what he believed was a 'sharpened
screwdriver' or 'fillet knife' outside Whitleigh Community Centre.

The first he knew of his injuries was feeling blood trickling down his leg.

Andy, who doesn't want his surname revealed for fear of reprisals, was told by
surgeons that if he hadn't been such a well -built man, his wounds could have
proved fatal.

He was stabbed on Sunday, March 21, at around 9.40pm.

Today, he is still off work nursing the five wounds, which include a
two-and-a-half inch deep gash to his chest, two jabs in his leg, one in his left
side and another in his hip.

The incident followed a heated argument between a group of people who had been
at a disco inside the community centre that evening.

Today, Andy has spoken of his ordeal in the hope it will encourage witnesses to
step forward and speak to police in confidence.

Andy said: "I did not actually feel him stab me - he just kept lunging at me and
I kept pushing him off.

"I had heard one of the bloke's friends say to me 'You'd better get back inside
or he will kill you'. Then he kept running at me about five times.

"Then my friends came outside and I felt something running down my leg and saw
it was blood."

Police and ambulance were called to the scene but by that time the offender had
fled.

Andy added: "When the ambulance arrived I took my shirt off and found I had more
wounds than first thought. The surgeon said it could have been a lot more
serious and said if I hadn't have had so much padding it was quite possible I
could have died. It could have been murder really.

"I am a butcher by trade and I do not believe it was a knife. It was more like a
sharpened screwdriver."

Investigating officer Detective Constable Scott McLuskie, of Charles Cross CID,
believes someone must have witnessed the incident and could hold some vital
clues.

He said: "There were several people around at the time and we need these
independent witnesses to come forward."

Anyone with information is asked to contact DC McLuskie on 01752 720595.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1999 Evening Herald

                              295 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       April 3, 1999, Saturday Edition 1

Dog rips open boy's face in horror attack - Toddler found screaming in terror
has 17 stitches and may be scarred for life

BYLINE: by Lisa Hutchinson

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 340 words


   A TWO-year-old boy could be scarred for life after his face was ripped open
in a savage dog attack.

The horrified parents of Johnathon Angus found their little boy screaming and
covered in blood after the attack outside their Tyneside home.

Doctors feared the toddler, who had 17 stitches, could be scarred for life and
are considering plastic surgery to rebuild his face.

Ordeal

The crazed dog sank its teeth into the boy's face as he played outside his home
in Cottenham Chare, Elswick, Newcastle.

Parents John Angus, 51, and Jane Wilson, 37, ran outside to find him dripping in
blood.

He was rushed to Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary where he underwent
emergency treatment on the left side of his face.

Miss Wilson was keeping a bedside vigil today as Mr Angus, a labourer, relived
the nightmare ordeal.

He said: "We had just been out shopping when Johnathon went to play on his
little bike. We heard his screams and ran to see what had happened. He was
covered in blood.

"The dog had just come into the street when it pounced on him and bit
Johnathon's face. He really is lucky to be alive. If the dog's bite was on his
neck, I'm sure he would have been killed.

"Doctors had to put Johnathon under general anaesthetic to clean the wound
because he was in so much pain.

"They couldn't find his little vein to give him a needle so they had to give him
gas. They cleaned up the wound and used 17 stitches.

"He is now on a course of antibiotics and we will find out today if he needs
plastic surgery.

"Doctors say Johnathon could be scarred for life, they say only time will tell.

"This dog should be put to sleep. If it has done this to one child then it could
do it again."

Horrendous

Acting Insp Kevin Hindhaugh, based at the city's West End police station, said:
"The wound is so horrendous, if it had been on his neck then it could have had
fatal consequences.

"We have detained the dog and we are carrying out inquiries to trace the owner
who will be interviewed in due course."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FAMILY HORROR - parents Jane Wilson and John Angus will find out today
if two-year-old Johnathon needs plastic surgery. Picture: Elliot Nichol

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              296 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        April 6, 1999, Tuesday Edition 1

Home of murder suspect trashed - Estate gripped by terror after vicious
vigilante attack

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By ANDY LLOYD

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 433 words


   CALLS for calm were made today after yobs launched a brick attack on the home
of a murder suspect.

The gang carried out the raid just hours after David Barsdell, 38, was remanded
in custody charged with the murder of his neighbour Robert Michael, also 38, who
died from stab wounds inside his home.

The attackers caused hundreds of pounds of damage, smashing every window in
Barsdell's Maestro car which was parked on his driveway, as well as windows in
the council semi.

The daylight attack on the house in Barmouth Way, Meadow Well, North Shields,
sparked calls for calm from police and community leaders.

Local councillor David Corkey pleaded with residents not to take the law into
their own hands, and said: "It is time for people to sit back and let the police
do their job.

"Attacks like this will just lead to further feuding and do nothing towards the
harmony of the estate.

"It is a shame after the excellent relations the community and police have built
together. It is very frustrating as the Meadow Well has been transformed
compared to five years ago. There is a different atmosphere now and this is a
major setback."

Residents revealed how feelings on the estate are running high after well-liked
dad-of-two Mr Michael was found stabbed to death on Saturday.

Friend Robert Stewart, 42, of nearby Waterville Road, said divorced Mr Michael
was "a very canny bloke - he was quiet and he loved his kids."

Mr Stewart added: "He didn't have a job, wasn't at all violent and he kept
himself to himself.

"Rob would do anything to help people and he was well liked, that's obviously
why some people feel very angry and want to hit out."

Mr Michael's neighbour Mrs Glenn Bell, 32, said: "No one wants to move into this
street anymore. It has gone downhill and people move out just as soon as they
move in."

A team of 30 officers have made door to door inquiries in the area and are also
investigating the attack on the property.

Custody

Det Chief Insp Gibson, who is leading the investigation, said: "We have been
made aware of damage which occurred early on Sunday evening and we are looking
into who may have carried it out."

Mr Michael died just yards from where Wet'n'Wild water park manager Mark Conway
was stabbed to death last year.

Barsdell was remanded in custody without making an application for bail when he
appeared at a special hearing before North Tyneside magistrates.

Police are appealing for anyone who saw or heard a disturbance between 9.30am
and 10.30am on Saturday to get in touch with them on [0191] 2146555.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: URBAN TERROR - the home and car of Meadow Well murder suspect David
Barsdell after a daylight attack by thugs

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              297 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       April 10, 1999, Saturday Edition 1

How it feels to take on Reid's goal machine - WHAT is it like facing a
Sunderland attack that has terrorised defences all season? Huddersfield defender
Jon Dyson, who plays against the champions-elect this afternoon, tells Jason
Mellor.

SECTION: SPORT, Pg. 96

LENGTH: 830 words


   By anyone's standards, footballers are well paid sportsmen. But by 4.50pm
today, the Huddersfield Town defence will probably have an extremely good case
for putting in for a collective spot of over-time.

This season they've leaked on average two goals a game away from the McAlpine,
have won only two of 20 post- war league visits to Wearside and, with a paltry
14 victories on their travels since their elevation to the First Division in
1995, appear not best placed to challenge a side who have made a habit of
pulverising visitors to the Stadium of Light.

Victory for Reid's side would be their 12th in a row at home - approaching the
club record of 13.

Town have failed to keep a clean sheet on their travels this season and
Sunderland have plundered 46 goals in front of their supporters this term.

Huddersfield defender Jon Dyson and his colleagues are the latest to appear
before the firing squad today, and the amiable Mirfield born 26-year-old, now in
his eighth season as a professional after joining Town from school, is under no
illusions as to the task ahead.

The business studies graduate, who was the Terriers' player of the year last
season, has faced the Wearsiders on numerous occasions, most recently at the
McAlpine back in October in what was then a top-of-the-table clash with surprise
package Town looking down on the rest of the division.

He said: "Niall Quinn and Michael Bridges were up front for Sunderland that
night and they were both quite a handful although they are very different
players.

"People always focus on Niall's aerial ability but that's taking away from his
all round play.

"He's got a terrific touch which he should get a lot more credit for and he's
responsible for such a lot of link-up play, bringing others into the game which
is a great asset.

"Michael Bridges is someone we also know quite well to our cost. He's come off
the bench a couple of times to score important goals against us.

"I remember he got two late on at Roker Park when they came from behind to beat
us the last time they were promoted.

"His great strength is his sharpness and pace and you always have to be aware
when you're up against him.

"For Sunderland to now have him on the bench speaks volumes about the strength
of their squad.

"Along with Daniele Dichio it's an

impressive foursome to have at your disposal, and a little bit daunting to play
against."

Having marked Alan Shearer, Ian Wright and Matt Le Tissier during the 200 games
since his debut seven years ago, Dyson, who can also play full-back or in
midfield, is well qualified to discuss the merits of Sunderland's attacking
options.

Having seen the Wearsiders' metamorphosis over recent seasons, he said: "They
have a set pattern of play and in Johnston and Summerbee have two fine wingers
who both pose a lot of problems.

"Sunderland are a better outfit for having them in the team and they also
benefit from the fact they've retained a pretty settled side and formula for the
past couple of seasons. They play some good stuff and they realise the value of
continuity."

Since those heady early winter days when they topped this division for the first
time in almost three decades, Peter Jackson's team have slid steadily down the
table.

Their faltering play-off ambitions were finally extinguished by a depressing 2-1
defeat at home to Swindon on Easter Monday.

Dyson added: "All we have to play for is pride, which is disappointing bearing
in mind where we were earlier in the season.

"Now, with the pressure off, it might help us to relax a bit more and play to
the best of our ability.

"Everyone knows Sunderland are going up as champions. There's no way they will
loose a 10-point lead at this stage.

"There's the chance they could go up today if Bradford lose and they beat us,
but it's our aim to be party poopers and delay the celebration party.

"Kevin Phillips was missing through injury when they came to us earlier this
season but now we have him to deal with as well.

"His record speaks for itself, he's good with either of his feet and is so quick
to get his shots in. He can turn a half chance into a goal with very little
fuss.

"We're fortunate to have a magnificent stadium of our own but it's always

special coming to the Stadium of Light.

"It will be a full house and as a player that's always something you look
forward to."

Such has been Huddersfield's gradual dip in form since the turn of the year,
even their local newspaper, the Examiner warned that Town could be facing a
cricket score today and next week - against neighbours Bradford City -should
they perform as ineptly as they did for most of the abject defeat by Swindon.

On paper, few would disagree with that view.

But then again as Peter Reid is always quick to point out, football isn't played
on paper.

And the Sunderland boss is always wary of facing sides due a win or a clean
sheet. On both counts, Town qualify.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Worth applauding: Jon Dyson has his hands full today.

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              298 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 April 12, 1999

Terror group denies attack

LENGTH: 171 words


THE UDA today denied being involved in last week's arson attack on a family of
five in Ballymoney.

A statement issued by the terror group's Londonderry and North Antrim brigade
insisted it was not behind the incident.

It said: "The UDA want to make it pefectly clear that they absolutely,
definitely were not involved in the attack on the McCook family.

"A member of the organisation was in contact with the family on the evening of
the incident to explain that."

The UDA hinted it believed another loyalist group was responsible for petrol
bomb attacks in north Antrim and said it wanted "to put the record straight."

Derek and Esther McCook and their three children, all aged under ten, were
asleep upstairs last Wednesday when two petrol bombs were thrown through the
living room window of their Clonmeen Drive home.

While no one was hurt, the incident believed to be a case of mistaken identity
revived memories of the petrol bomb attack which killed the three Quinn brothers
last year.


LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              299 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 12, 1999

Syringe gang grabs bike in terror attack;
 YOUNG LEUKAEMIA SUFFERER THREATENED IN PARK

BYLINE: Sarah Harris

SECTION: News, Pg.9

LENGTH: 237 words





TEENAGER Richard Cross, who is recovering from leukaemia, had his 3,000 mountain
bicycle stolen by youths armed with a used syringe.

Richard, aged 18, was cycling back from Bristol Oncology Centre to his home in
Knowle West when he was robbed.

Three youths blocked his path in Victoria Park, Windmill Hill, and forced him to
stop.

He was threatened by one of the youths who brandished what appeared to be a
dirty syringe. He told Richard he would stab him with the needle unless he
handed over the bicycle.

The youths escaped towards Fraser Street with the bicycle, which had been a gift
to help Richard regain his strength.

Richard said: "They came towards me and one of them just said, 'Give us the
bike'. I said 'No' and then one of them pulled this needle on me and said, 'I'll
stab you if you don't'.

"I had no choice but to let it go. I couldn't do anything about it and I'm still
not 100 per cent."

Richard's uncle, Mark Wilson, said: "It's frightening that this sort of thing
can happen on your doorstep.

"Richard built up that bike with only the best stuff and now these three have
just walked off with it."

Richard was first diagnosed as suffering from leukaemia at the age of 16 in
1997. He has undergone a series of treatments including radiotherapy and
chemotherapy.

Police have arrested a 20-year-old man who is due to appear before magistrates
charged with robbery.


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              300 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                 April 13, 1999

Family's terror at fire bomb attack
 Police plea for help in hunt for arsonists

BYLINE: By Adam Beaumont

SECTION: Crimes & Dossiers: Arson, Pg.5

LENGTH: 294 words


A FATHER-of-three today told how he feared for the lives of his family following
an arson attack on his home at the weekend.

Motor mechanic Mohammed Mozam, 43, said only the sound of a car alarm saved his
life and the lives of his wife and three children.

"We were all fast asleep when the arson attack took place. If the alarm hadn't
gone off the whole house could have gone up with everyone inside," he said.

Arsonists struck at the family's Carlton Hill home shortly after 2am on Sunday.

The window of Mr Mozam's GBP 10,000 Audi V8 was smashed and what is believed to
have been a petrol bomb thrown inside.

As the fire took hold, flames shot up the side of the two-storey house.

"The alarm went off and when I looked out of the window the car was well ablaze.
The interior was a sea of flames."

Mr Mozam then rushed around his home waking his wife, Parveen, 38, sons Imran,
21, and Kamran, 18, and his 15-year-old daughter, Saleena, and getting them out
of the house. "After phoning the fire brigade, I ran outside into the road. I
could see the flames climbing the outside wall of the house. It was like an
inferno," he said.

"The flames were reaching right outside the children's bedroom. The
double-glazing is twisted and some of the glass has smashed."

A spokesman for Carlton police said they were treating the incident as arson.

One man has been arrested and released without charge on police bail in
connection with the incident.

Officers said they were appealing to anyone who witnessed the incident to come
forward. "The car has definitely been set on fire deliberately. Since it was
parked right against the house we are viewing it as a serious attack," said the
spokesman.

Anyone with any information should contact Carlton police on 0115 967 0999.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: NARROW ESCAPE: Mohammed Mozam stands beside the burnt remains of his
car which was fire bombed in the early hours of Sunday morning 993445/2

                     Copyright 1999 Nottingham Evening Post

                              301 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 14, 1999

Dog attack pupil's terror

SECTION: News, Pg.10

LENGTH: 188 words


A YOUNG schoolboy was gripped "like a rag doll" in the mouth of a dog outside
his Wiltshire infants school, magistrates heard yesterday.

The seven-year-old, who cannot be named for legal reasons, suffered quite severe
injuries and is now afraid of dogs, Salisbury court was told.

But magistrates decided not order that the old English sheepdog be destroyed
after one of the UK's leading dog behaviour experts described it as "child-
friendly".

Mrs Pauline Wise, aged 27, of Blackfriars Way, Salisbury admitted not keeping a
dangerous dog under control.

The court heard that she had taken the two year-old dog called Buster to St
Martin's infants school when she went to meet her son.

Prosecutor Jane Warren said that Buster first nipped a mother waiting for her
child and then attacked the seven-year-old pupil, gripping him like a rag doll.

Miss Warren said the boy suffered a puncture wound to his chin and gashes to his
face.

Magistrates made an order that the animal be kept under proper control and
should not be taken near any school and that 350 compensation be paid to the
victim's family.


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              302 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           April 21, 1999, Wednesday

US SCHOOL ATTACKS: CATALOGUE OF TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 200 words


THE horror in Colorado echoes previous random attacks at schools.

May 1998: Two teenagers killed and 20 hurt in school shooting at Springfield,
Oregon. Alleged gunman, 15, awaits trial. His parents were found killed at home.

May 1998: A jealous 18-year-old allegedly opened fire in school car park in
Fayetteville, Tennessee, killing classmate who was dating his ex-girlfriend. He
awaits trial.

March 1998: Boys of 11 and 13 shot and killed five and wounded 10 during school
fire alarm at Jonesboro, Arkansas. Convicted of murder, boys can be held until
they are 21.

Dec 1997: 14-year-old held after three students were killed and five wounded at
school in Kentucky.

Oct 1997: A 16-year-old boy in Pearl, Mississippi, is serving life after killing
his mother, then shooting nine pals, killing two.

March 1996: Sixteen classmates and their teacher killed by lone gunman Thomas
Hamilton at Dunblane Primary in Scotland.

March 1994: Schizophrenic Stephen Wilkinson stabbed Nikki Conroy to death and
wounded two of her Middlesbrough classmates.

July 1992: Nursery nurse Lisa Potts shielded children from a machete attack by
Horrett Campbell at a Wolverhampton primary.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              303 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            April 22, 1999, Thursday

PROBATION FOR AIR RAGE MAN;
 STEWARDESS TERROR AT ATTACK

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 279 words


BUSINESSMAN Ian Coutts, who attacked an air stewardess in an aircraft flying at
18,000ft, has been put on probation for 12 months.

Stewardess Thelma Rooney was left bruised and cowering in terror after Coutts,
55, punched her three times on the arm.

Coutts, a company director of Hammersmith, west London, was put on probation,
ordered to pay court costs of pounds 120, and to pay Miss Rooney pounds 75
compensation.

The attack took place after Miss Rooney accidentally banged a drinks trolley
into Coutts's arm, magistrates at Uxbridge, west London, were told yesterday.

Neville Kesselman, prosecuting, said that when Coutts boarded the British
Midlands jet at Dublin he complained about being placed in "scum class" because
there was no room in business class.

"It led to display of ill grace and violence later in the flight," Mr Kesselman
said.

The attack happened as Miss Rooney, from Dublin, and a steward attended to a
passenger with a bleeding nose who was sitting next to Coutts.

Mr Kesselman said: "She felt severe blows to her left arm, causing excruciating
pain.

"She looked and saw Mr Coutts hitting her with his fist.

"She was frightened and remained for the remainder of the journey in the rear of
the galley."

Coutts, who had denied one charge of assault but was found guilty in March, was
spared community service after the magistrates were told that he had a slipped
disc.

Elizabeth Jay, for Coutts, told the court: "This case has never been put as an
air rage case.

"There is no suggestion that the aeroplane was in danger. He was not restrained
on the aeroplane."

Coutts, refused to comment after the case.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GUILTY: Ian Coutts leaves court after being put on probation

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              304 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 April 26, 1999

Ex-MP's 'disgust' over new legislation;
 Terror amnesty attacked by Fitt

BYLINE: By Desmond McCartan

LENGTH: 354 words


FORMER SDLP leader, Lord Fitt, today launched a fierce attack on plans by London
and Dublin to offer an amnesty to terrorists behind the deaths of the
Disappeared.

Lord Fitt spoke of his "disgust" that both Governments should contemplate such a
step in legislation, and argued that it was a further concession to terrorist
groups.

The measure is expected to be formally introduced in the Commons this week,
probably on Wednesday, and parallel legislation - similar in terms to the
statutory decommissioning scheme - will come in the Dail.

The Government this morning said it hoped that the measure would become law by
the middle of May.

But Lord Fitt said it would be bitterly resented by many people, especially
those who had lost loved ones.

He said he had hoped that the Belfast Agreement would bring peace and he had
"kept quiet" about his reservations, since he might have been accused of seeking
to undermine the process.

In particular, he had bitter feelings about the release of terrorist prisoners.

"However, there comes a time when I can no longer be intimidated into silence by
such accusations. This is one issue that ensures that."

He went on: "I find it almost unbelievable that the two democratic parliaments
are being asked to bring in legislation which will grant an amnesty to some of
the most evil murderers on the island.

"I just cannot believe how both democratic institutions will expect their
members to vote for such a thing.

"Democratic politicians are being intimidated to do so.

"Those who oppose the legislation are to be told that such a step would prevent
the bodies of loved ones being restored to the relatives. I certainly have great
sympathy for the relatives.

"I want to see the bodies restored to them as quickly as possible, but I believe
that the price to be paid is too high, by the granting of an amnesty and the
laying down of conditions such as there will be no post mortems to determine the
cause of death."

Lord Fitt said he backed the view that relatives should receive some financial
support for the cost of a proper funeral.


LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              305 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                 April 28, 1999

POLICE HUNT MAN
IN STABBING ATTACK
 Terror ordeal boy, 15, forced off track

BYLINE: By Harry Martin, Loughborough Staff

SECTION: Crime: Assault, Pg.1

LENGTH: 254 words


POLICE are hunting a knifeman who tried to stab a 15- year-old boy while he was
cycling home to Loughborough from Quorn.

They have issued an urgent appeal for witnesses to the the attack, which took
place on the A6 between Quorn and Loughborough at 2.50pm yesterday.

The victim, who has not been named, said he became aware of another cyclist who
pulled alongside and forced him off the cycle way.

The assailant then produced a knife and attempted to stab the boy, but only
succeeded in ripping the front of his jumper, before making his escape.

The victim was not hurt physically, but was left very shaken and distressed by
his ordeal.

The knifeman was described as white, aged between 18 and 22 years, clean shaven,
with very short blond hair.

Nasty attack

He was wearing a shiny black bubble coat, dark blue jeans, a white baseball cap
with a vertical dark blue line from the crown to the rim, and black leather
shoes, which were dirty.

He was riding a black or dark purple mountain bike, which was also described as
dirty.

Sergeant David Cook, of Loughborough police, said: "We are treating this matter
very seriously. Although the 15-year-old was not hurt physically, he was
subjected to a very nasty attack and we are anxious to track down the person
responsible.

"The incident occurred in broad daylight on a very busy road, and it is likely
that a passing motorist may have witnessed it.

"We appeal to anyone who may have done so, or who may recognise the attacker
from the description, to contact us immediately."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1999 Leicester Mercury

                              306 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             April 30, 1999, Friday

GUNMAN OPENS FIRE ON STUDENTS;
CLASS TERROR: FEARS OF COPYCAT ATTACK

SECTION: Page 4

LENGTH: 258 words


TERRIFIED students dived for cover yesterday when a crazed teenage gunman opened
fire on their classroom.

The beauty therapy students, aged 16 and 17, were practising manicures when the
gunman fired three shots from the street.

The attack left a bullet-hole in the classroom window but no-one was injured.

The gunman then calmly slipped a pistol into his coat and strolled away.

The attacker struck shortly before 11am as the students and their lecturer were
working in a ground-floor classroom in an arts and technology college in
Gloucester.

Armed police launched a huge hunt for the gunman using a helicopter and tracker
dogs.

A 16-year-old youth was arrested more than two hours later. Police were still
searching for the weapon.

College principal Greg Smith said: "I was horrified to hear this had happened in
Gloucester.

"For every principal it's a terrible nightmare to hear there are gunshots being
fired at their college.

"We are constantly reviewing our security but there are a number of entrances to
the college and it would be quite impossible to ensure it was a secure
environment."

Police officers investigating the attack feared it could be a copycat incident
after the Columbine High massacre in Denver, Colorado.

Supt John Horan said: "If it was a copycat, I am appalled that anyone should try
to copy the terrible incident in the States.

"Clearly, the young students will have been shaken by this incident.

"Depending on the kind of weapon involved, the potential for fatal consequences
was high."


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1999 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              307 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        April 30, 1999, Friday Edition 1

Woman in club attack terror

BYLINE: By GARRY WILLEY

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 104 words


   A MAN battered his estranged wife 20 times with a truncheon after drinking
beer spiked with cocaine, a court heard.

Edward Tams launched the attack when Heidi Hannon returned to her South Shields
home and was accused of lying about where she had been.

Newcastle Crown Court was told he clubbed her unconscious and she needed staples
in a head wound.

Tams, 38, of Northbourne Street, Newcastle, was given a 12-month jail sentence
suspended for two years after admitting grievous bodily harm.

Julian Smith, defending, said Tams had unknowingly drunk beer laced with cocaine
during a drinks session.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              308 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 30, 1999

Is this the Brixton nail bomber?;
 POLICE ON ALERT FOR BANK HOLIDAY TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Paul Peachey

SECTION: News, Pg.9

LENGTH: 530 words


DETECTIVES hunting the Brixton nail bomber are hoping for a breakthrough after
issuing a video of the man they believe to be the prime suspect.

The move came as security precautions against further bomb attacks were stepped
up around the country in readiness for the May Bank holiday.

Vulnerable areas - including Bristol - will have extra officers on patrol.

Scotland Yard revealed last night it has received a ''steady number'' of calls
since releasing footage of a white man, in his twenties, wandering around the
crowded streets of Brixton up to 90 minutes before the bomb exploded injuring 39
people.

Police believe he may have made an earlier trip to the area in south London and
then collected the bomb, planted it and fled before the explosion at about
5.30pm on Saturday, April 17.

At a Scotland Yard briefing, Assistant Commissioner David Veness said: ''This
one individual may be a loner acting for his own perverted reasons."

Mr Veness said the man, between 5ft 6in and 5ft 8in, was clearly recognisable
from the Brixton footage.

Head of the Yard's anti-terrorist branch, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan
Fry, said the man, wearing a white cap and dark zip-up jacket, was caught on
video between 4pm and 5pm.

Detectives believe he dumped the bomb at about 5pm outside an Iceland store in
Electric Avenue.

Several people picked up the bag holding the device before it exploded without
warning.

They included a 14-year-old boy who realised it was a bomb and tried to move it
to safety.

Dozens were injured by flying glass, nails and shrapnel, including a 23-month
-old boy who had a four-inch nail embedded in his head which was later removed
in a 90-minute operation.

Two days after the explosion, a man claiming to be from the neo-Nazi group
Combat 18 made a first claim of responsibility, followed by claims from three
other racist groups.

Police staged a reconstruction of the attack a week later but shortly afterwards
a second bomb went off at Brick Lane, east London, and six people were injured.

Detectives examined hundreds of hours of CCTV footage, some of which was sent to
America twice for experts to examine and improve the quality.

The same man has not been spotted by detectives examining pictures from the
Brick Lane bombing.

Officers on the case were working on theories that the attacker could be a
breakaway member of Combat 18.

High-profile police patrols will be on duty this weekend as ethnic communities
across Britain are on alert in case of a repeat of the violence of the previous
weekends.

In the West police will keep a close watch on suspected race hate terrorists
over the Bank Holiday.

Inspector Keith Jones of Avon and Somerset police said: "We will be targeting
groups known or suspected to be involved in race hate crimes."

The operation will concentrate on Bristol, Somerset and south Gloucestershire.

Police are working with black, Asian and other ethnic minority communities to
make sure people are aware of the dangers.

It is believed the far-Right terror group Combat 18, one of the groups which
claimed responsibility for the Brixton bombing, may have a cell in Bristol.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              309 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 30, 1999

Girl, 16, in sex attack terror

BYLINE: Lisa Pritchard

SECTION: News, Pg.14

LENGTH: 276 words



A SCHOOLGIRL was subjected to a frightening sex attack as she walked home in
Bristol.

The 16-year-old, from Stoke Bishop, was grabbed by a man who had been following
her across The Downs in Clifton and indecently assaulted.

The girl was left shocked by her ordeal, but has been able to speak to police
and has helped to compile an e-fit of her assailant.

Her ordeal began at around 4.30pm last Thursday, April 22.

As she neared the water tower during her walk across Durdham Down, she realised
that a man was following her.

When she turned round, he asked her for the time.

But as she glanced down at her watch, he grabbed her by the arm and began to
drag her towards some trees.

The girl struggled, but was forced to the ground by the man who then indecently
assaulted her.

She eventually managed to break free and ran off towards Ladies Mile, while her
assailant walked away.

Police spokeswoman Jenny Bigwood said: "This was obviously a very frightening
attack for this young girl. She was not physically injured, but was left very
shaken.

"We are appealing for anyone who was on the Downs at that time and who might
have seen this man to get in touch with us."

The man is described as white, aged around 50, 5ft 5ins tall and round-
shouldered. He had grey hair which was short at the back, but long enough on top
to be combed over a bald spot.

He was clean-shaven and had grey-blue eyes. He wore large, plastic-framed
glasses. He was also wearing a three-quarter length maroon coat with a blue
patch across the shoulders and dark trousers.

Anyone with any information should call Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              310 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 1, 1999, Saturday

CIRCLE OF DEATH;
 378 MURDERS 1,255 BOMBS 1,158 GUN ATTACKS: 'THE VICTIMS OF SOUTH ARMAGH
TERRORISM SEE NO PEACE DIVIDEND'

BYLINE: Rosie Cowan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 491 words


PEOPLE from a 10-mile circle of terror that has claimed almost 400 lives
launched an appeal for justice yesterday.

In the past 30 years, the 25,000 residents of South Armagh have endured 1,255
bombs, 1,158 gun attacks and 378 murders, according to a report commissioned by
victims" group, Families Acting for Innocent Relatives (FAIR).

The independent study, funded by European Union peace money, also found that of
75 murders detailed, 68 remain unsolved.

Brian McConnell, spokesman for FAIR, said the startling figures illustrate the
suffering undergone by such a small area over a long time.

"It's all very well to have inquiries into the murders of Pat Finucane and
Rosemary Nelson, but the fact that there are so many unsolved murders in this
area raises serious questions,"" he said.

"We never wanted attention, but we do want justice. Are we second-class victims
because we don't have a political agenda?

"We feel the victims of terrorism are being ignored, while the perpetrators are
unrepentant. We've seen no peace dividend."

The study also found that of 100 people surveyed, 79 thought the Good Friday
Agreement offered no real prospect of peace in South Armagh.

"It's not that we don't want peace" said Mr McConnell. "But we don't believe it
is a real peace. The price could be our lives in the future.""

Mr McConnell was just six when his uncle was shot dead in front of him in 1976.
Fellow FAIR member, Willie Frazer, has lost five members of his family.

"You can't live in this area and not have been affected," said Mr McConnell.
"People have been spied on, tortured, shot. Terrorists have mutilated some
corpses, booby-trapping them with explosives."

The report tells of a man being nailed to the floor for four days before he was
shot dead, and of neighbours smashing gravestones.

South Armagh has been the scene of several major atrocities, such as the
Kingsmills massacre, where 10 Protestant workmen were shot dead by the IRA in
1976.

But Mr McConnell added the fact that many of the deaths have been single
incidents means the families feel forgotten and have received no specific
counselling or help from government agencies.

FAIR is calling on the government to fund a remembrance centre, which would
include a reference library, facilities for peace studies and a garden.

"We don't want an empty mausoleum, but somewhere where the dead can be
remembered with tribute and which can bring some benefit to the living,"" said
Mr McConnell.

Newry & Armagh Ulster Unionist Assemblyman Danny Kennedy backed FAIR's proposals
for a memorial centre.

"No measures can ever compensate for the loss of loved ones, but it is vital the
suffering of people in South Armagh be recognised and acknowledged in practical
ways,"" he said.

FAIR has 600 members, many of them bereaved relatives of people in the security
forces. It welcomes both Protestant and Catholic members.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERROR: The murder circle of South Armagh has seen the worst violence
of the; Troubles; VICTIMS: Ten Protestant workmen died in the Kingmills massacre
in 1976

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              311 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                              May 3, 1999, Monday

LONER FACES THREE MURDER CHARGES OVER NAIL BOMBING AT SOHO BAR;
TERROR ATTACKS: MAN WILL APPEAR IN COURT TODAY

BYLINE: Pete Richardson

SECTION: Page 4

LENGTH: 1146 words


A MAN was charged with planting the Soho pub bomb yesterday.

David Copeland will appear in court today accused of murdering three people at
the Admiral Duncan pub on Friday.

The 22-year-old loner also faces charges of planting the bombs at Brixton two
weeks ago and at Brick Lane last weekend.

Copeland was arrested at 1.40am on Saturday when Flying Squad officers raided a
house in the village of Cove, Hampshire.

Inside the two-bedroom property they found a home-made nail bomb similar to the
ones used in the attacks, plus explosives, wiring, batteries, clocks, sports
bags and several pounds of nails.

They also found a white baseball cap similar to one allegedly worn by the
Brixton bomber.

Amid fears of an explosion, more than 250 local residents were roused from their
beds and taken to a local sports centre until police bomb experts declared the
area safe.

Copeland, who is an engineer, was arrested after a tip-off from a member of the
public.

Police had earlier issued video pictures of a man they wanted to question who
was seen near Brixton market shortly before the explosion there.

Police said the man they had charged was not linked to any of the race hate
groups, including Combat 18 and the White Wolves, who had phoned the police and
media claiming they planted the bombs.

Three people, including pregnant woman Andrea Dykes and two friends, were killed
when a bomb hidden in a sports bag blew up in the crowded pub at about 6.30pm on
Friday.

Andrea's husband Julian was last night still critically ill in hospital unaware
that his wife was dead.

Sixty five people were injured by the blast, flying nails, and other debris.

Yesterday, 18 of those injured were still in hospital, four of them in a
critical condition.

Some of the victims had legs blown off, others have suffered terrible burns, as
well as lacerations and puncture wounds where nails were driven into their
bodies.

Police said the bomb had been designed to kill and maim the maximum number of
people.

London's police chief, Sir Paul Condon, said: "This was an evil and cowardly act
designed to inflict the maximum damage to innocent people."

The attack was believed to be aimed at the gay community. The pub is mainly
frequented by homosexuals.

Police said it was part of a pattern linking the previous explosions targeted
against black and Asian communities.

The charges were announced at a news conference at Scotland Yard.

Metropolitan Police assistant commissioner David Veness said: "In the past three
weeks, three people have died and over 100 have been injured as a result of the
bombings in London."

He added: "We must not become complacent at a time when there is always the
chance of facing the unpredictability and diversity of terrorist threats."

Mr Veness said CCTV coverage had played a significant part in leading to the
identification of a man and that once a suspect had been identified, an arrest
was made within nine hours.

He added: "There is no suggestion at this stage that the arrest is linked in any
way to the extreme right-wing groups which have been reportedly claiming
responsibility for these attacks on innocent people.

"There appears to be no trigger event or specific date which has sparked these
attacks, which were clearly the responsibility of the same person."

The arrest came as more than 2000 people gathered near the site of Friday's
blast yesterday to remember the victims.

The vigil in Soho Square featured speeches by Home Office minister Paul Boateng
and gay activists.

Messages of support were also read out from Prime Minister Tony Blair and the
Queen.

It is hoped the arrest of Copeland will spell the end of the wave of bombings
which have rocked London.

They began at about 5.30pm on Saturday April 17 in Brixton market while it was
teeming with people.

A group of young market workers spotted an apparently abandoned bag. When they
looked inside, they found a clock, two batteries and wiring that looked like a
bomb.

The bag was moved several times as curious individuals examined it. Just after
someone called the police, the bag exploded.

Thirty nine people were sent reeling as hundreds of three-inch nails ripped into
bodies and ricocheted off walls and pavements.

A baby had a nail driven into his brain but survived after an operation to
remove it.

Scotland Yard suspected the attack might be racist but they had not picked up
any hint that any of Britain's neo-Nazi groups had been planning an attack.

Two days after the bombing, a caller claiming to be from Combat 18, phoned the
Yard to say they were responsible.

Seven days later, police hopes that the Brixton blast was a one-off were dashed.

This time the target was a mosque in the heart of one of Britain's best known
Asian communities at Shoreditch in the East End.

Again a passer-by moved the device before it exploded.

Spotting it on the pavement, the un-named man carried it round to a police
office in nearby Brick Lane.

But finding it closed, he decided to check the bag's contents - and realised it
was a bomb.

He had only managed to sprint a few yards when it exploded, wrecking business
and setting parked cars ablaze. Six people were hurt.

As forensic specialists sifted the wreckage, they discovered hundreds of nails
and parts of a clock identical to the one used at Brixton.

Scotland Yard realised the casualties had been mercifully light but now the
implication that this was the work of racists was inescapable.

Anti-Terrorist Squad officers had been working feverishly since the first blast
studying scores of cassettes from CCTV cameras covering the Brixton area.

Eventually they were able to pick out one man, a young white man wearing a white
baseball cap, who cropped up at several times and several places in the area.

In some of the footage he seemed to be carrying a hefty holdall but the film was
grainy and imperfect.

The material was jetted to Houston and the HQ of the North American Space
Agency, home of the world's most powerful photographic analysis equipment.

Via computer enhancement, the Yard quickly had a series of sharp images of their
suspect.

By Thursday, they were able to release the pictures to news- papers and TV
appealing for anyone who knew the man to come forward.

The Yard knew they were in a race against time.

They expected a third attack at the weekend and warned black, Asian, Jewish and
gay communities to be on the alert.

However, at 6.30pm on Friday the police lost the race to find the bomber when a
man walked into the Admiral Duncan.

He was carrying a black sports bag. He put it on the floor, ordered a beer, took
a gulp or two, then walked out just seconds before the blast.

A few hours later, a telephone tip came into Scotland Yard naming a man and an
address.

Now it is hoped the horror is over at last.


LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1999 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              312 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                  May 5, 1999

Appeal in terror attack on girl

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 230 words



POLICE will today try to jog the memory of witnesses who may have seen a brutal
attack on a 12-year-old girl in Bath a week ago.

Officers will return to the scene of the attack to ask members of the public if
they saw a teenage thug who police believe attacked the girl.

The girl was assaulted at 8.06am on Wednesday last week in a lane linking Rush
Hill to Edgeworth Road as she walked to school.

Her face was repeatedly smashed against a stone wall andiron railings.

She received several fractures to her face and doctors think she may also have
been kicked in the head during the ordeal.

Last night she was recovering in Bath's Royal United hospital.

Tim Jones, spokesman for Avon and Somerset police, said yesterday: "She's on the
mend. We will be maintaining a high profile around the area today.

"We are still looking for some help and assistance. It was a dreadful attack."

Police have received more than 100 calls offering information about the attack.

Callers have provided a number of names of people fitting the description of a
teenager who is believed to have carried out the assault.

The parents of the girl released a graphic picture of her. They do not want to
identify her and believe her injuries are so bad she is unrecognisable from the
picture.

The Bath Chronicle has put up a 5,000 reward to help catch the attacker.


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              313 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             May 6, 1999, Thursday

BALKANS CONFLICT: TERRORISTS IN MISSILE ATTACK ON BRITISH BANK

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 253 words


Anti-tank missiles hit two banks - one British and the other French - and a
Greek shipping office in Greece's main port of Piraeus yesterday.

One rocket hit the Handris shipping office, causing extensive damage. The other
two rockets, which hit branches of Midland Bank and the Banque National de
Paris, failed to detonate and caused only slight damage.

The explosion happened in an office complex in the centre of the port.

Police speculated the attack was carried out by the elusive November 17
terrorist organisation, which has used such rockets in the past against the
United States embassy in Athens and foreign banks.

The group stole a large number of anti-tank rockets from a Greek army base in
the 1980s.

November 17 has claimed responsibility for the killing of 22 people since its
1975 murder of the CIA station chief in Athens.

Authorities have never named a suspect, and there have been no arrests in
connection with the group.

Several recent bombings against foreign businesses and official buildings have
been carried out in apparent protest against Nato airstrikes on Yugoslavia.

A Greek woman was killed and another person was injured last month when a time
bomb exploded at a luxury hotel in Athens.

The group which claimed responsibility for that attack said it was retaliating
against Nato.

Greeks maintain friendly ties with fellow Christian Orthodox Serbs, and have
staged almost daily demonstrations around the country to protest against the
airstrikes.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              314 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             May 6, 1999, Thursday

BOYS TELL OF ULSTER GUN ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 264 words


AN 11-YEAR-old boy told today how he pleaded with a masked gunman for his life
moments before he opened fire.

Declan Lagan and his friend Gary McWilliams were standing outside a north
Belfast bookmaker's shop last night when several shots were fired at it.

They said a car pulled up beside them outside Sean Graham's bookies and a man
pointed a gun at Declan.

"I saw the driver, who had a scarf over his face, and the other man in the back
with a gun.

"He pointed the gun at me and I just froze on the spot," said Declan.

"I said 'Please, Mr, don't shoot me'. He said 'Shut up' and went to shoot us,
but the gun jammed and that was when Gary grabbed me and pulled me towards the
bookie's."

He added: "If Gary hadn't pulled me into the bookie's I would be dead probably."

Grabbed him

Gary said: "I just saw the man with the gun pointing out of the car.

"Declan just froze and I grabbed him and pulled him into the bookie's.

"We ran in and said there was gunmen outside and all of the men went into a wee
backroom."

Loyalists were accused of carrying out the attack on the shop at the corner of
Brompton Park and the Crumlin Road.

The RUC, which launched an investigation into the shooting, said that a gold
Proton car, believed to have been used, had been hijacked shortly before in the
loyalist Woodvale area of Belfast and was found abandoned back in the area soon
afterwards.

SDLP councillor Martin Morgan said: "If there ever was a new low to be found, it
is this. It is a miracle that these thugs did not kill these two children.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              315 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                  May 8, 1999

Terror gunman is jailed;
 ATTACKER HAD 'UNTREATABLE' DISORDER

BYLINE: Lisa Pritchard

SECTION: News, Pg.14

LENGTH: 243 words



A PSYCHIATRIC patient deemed untreatable by doctors was behind bars last night
for threatening a terrified barmaid at gunpoint.

Alan Ward, aged 39, held an air pistol against the back of Katrina Stevens' neck
and forced her to hand over 450 from the till of the Ship Inn where she worked.

He then marched the frightened woman up to a bedroom and bound her with tape and
electrical cable before firing a pellet into a wall and warning Miss Stevens not
to report the robbery - or he "would be back, with friends".

Yesterday, Ward was sentenced to seven years in prison by Judge John Neligan who
told him: "It is hard to imagine more terrifying circumstances for a young
lady."

She bravely defied his threats to struggle free and call her mother.

The description she later gave to police led to Ward's arrest at his home.

Bristol Crown court heard how Ward, of Castle Street, Frome, had checked out the
Ship Inn at Holdford and spoken to Miss Stevens the day before the robbery last
November.

He had gone equipped with an air pistol, tape and a short bungee rope that he
had hidden in his car.

Officers who arrested Ward were also threatened. Ward admitted robbery, going
equipped with a gun and burglary. The court heard he had previous convictions
for violence.

Susan Evans, defending, said Ward had a personality disorder and had spent some
time in hospital. But he had been discharged when a doctor said he was
untreatable.


LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              316 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              May 10, 1999, Monday

TERROR IN THE PARK AS BOY, 3, ATTACKED

BYLINE: :By Martin Mcglown Crime Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 329 words


A THREE-year-old boy was pelted with stones by youths during a trip to a
Birmingham park.

Reece Forester needed hospital treatment after the sickening attack which left
him covered in blood.

At one stage he was left lying on the floor begging the yobs to "stop".

The incident took place in Maybank Park, Bordesley Green.

Reece, who suffers from asthma, was with his eight-year-old cousin Jerome Hume
and sister Kayleigh, aged five. They were approached by a trio of local youths,
aged between nine and 13.

Reece's mum Jenny said: "Reece got the worst of it, he was covered in blood.

"He was repeatedly pelted with stones from quite a close distance, goodness
knows how many.

"His head was covered in nine separate wounds. We had to take him to hospital.

"Kayleigh was hurt too but not as badly. They were both absolutely petrified."

Investigating

She added: "It is an horrific state of affairs when kids can't play in a park
without being stoned. I'll never let them out of my sight again."

A West Midlands Police spokesman confirmed that officers attended the incident
which happened just over a week ago.

"A child was reported to have cuts and bruises and we are investigating reports
of an assault," he added.

Reece, who lives in Melbourne Ave, Newtown, had been enjoying a day out at his
cousin's house last Sunday.

Mrs Forester stayed chatting with her brother-in-law while the children were
allowed to make the two-minute journey to the park. A short time later Jerome
ran into the house shouting and screaming.

Doctors at Heartlands Hospital said Reece was lucky not to have been more
seriously injured.

Since the attack he has been too scared to leave the house and Kayleigh has
started wetting her bed. Mrs Forester, aged 23, claims she knows who the
offenders are and has handed their names to police. "What happened was
definitely unprovoked," she said. "I want these little scoundrels brought to
justice."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTIMS: Three-year-old Reece Forester with his sister Kayleigh (5) who
was also attacked while out playing

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              317 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            May 12, 1999, Wednesday

DJ'S 'REIGN OF SEX ATTACK TERROR'

SECTION: Page 16

LENGTH: 111 words


A DISC jockey who carried out sex attacks on 12 women over seven months was
trapped by carrying out the same routine each time, a court heard yesterday.

The Old Bailey was told 34-year-old Richard Baker attacked three women in the
space of seven hours.

The jury heard that he was identified by both footprints and fingerprints after
being picked out of ID parades. And DNA tests made it 10million to one that he
was the attacker.

Baker, of Bodmin, Cornwall, denies four charges of rape, two of indecent
assault, one of attempted indecent assault and two of affray.

He admits bodily harm and indecently assaulting four more women.

The trial continues.


LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1999 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              318 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 12, 1999

DJ 'STRUCK 12 TIMES IN EIGHT-MONTH REIGN OF RAPE TERROR';
'LATE-NIGHT ATTACKER THREATENED TO KILL THE WOMEN HE POUNCED ON'

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 899 words


A STRING of women were raped or sexually assaulted by a nightclub disc jockey
during an eight-month reign of terror, a court heard yesterday.

Richard Baker pounced on lone strangers late at night and threatened to kill
them if they did not submit to degrading sexual acts, an Old Bailey jury was
told.

He is said to have attacked 12 women between May and December last year, raping
four of them.

Baker, 34, was arrested at Heathrow attempting to flee the country after the BBC
TV programme Crimewatch, presented by Jill Dando, highlighted the assaults.

Prosecutor Nicholas Hilliard told the jury of nine women and three men that
Baker repeatedly used the same method of attack, accompanied by violent threats
and sob stories.

He warned jurors the details of the case would be distressing.

In several attacks, Baker said he would not rape the victim and that he just
wanted money. He often asked the women for personal details such as their name
and age, whether they were married or whether they were on the Pill, said Mr
Hilliard. He warned several they would not be able to run away from him because
of their high heels.

He told one woman he was married with a young baby but his wife had gone off sex
after a hysterectomy. He told another that his wife had left him for the best
man at their wedding. Both stories were completely untrue, the court heard.

One young woman, who was 16 when she allegedly became Baker's third victim, told
By DEBORAH COLLCUTT how she lay like a 'plank of wood' when she was attacked.
She said she begged Baker not to rape her and at first thought he would show her
mercy.

She was walking to a social club in Ken-tish Town, North London, to meet her
mother on May 23 when she was attacked from behind. 'He grabbed me round my neck
and put his hand over my mouth,' she said. 'He said if I started shouting he
would kill me.' Baker allegedly unbuttoned her blouse and pulled it over her
head so she could not see his face. When he heard voices nearby, he dragged her
over a fence and behind a shed.

The teenager began weeping as she described what happened next.

'He said he was not going to rape me, that he was just a dirty old man,' she
said.

'I was crying and I was scared. I just wanted to see my mum. He said if I didn't
stop crying he would kill me.' Baker then allegedly raped her, telling her she
knew it was inevitable.

Before he left her, Baker threatened to kill her if she reported the attack, and
told her he knew her route home from school and had seen her in her school
uniform, she said.

Mr Hilliard said a DNA scientist found semen and saliva on her upper body which
were ten million times more likely to have come from Baker than any other man.
Baker's other alleged victims included a 15-year-old girl in Southend-on-Sea,
who was allegedly sexually assaulted and raped, and a 26-year-old London casino
croupier allegedly raped as she walked home from work.

He is also alleged to have raped a woman in Brighton after she asked him to help
her get into her house, but the key broke off in the lock.

A second Southend attack, on September 12, involved another 16-year-old, walking
home alone after a row with her boyfriend, the court heard.

She was grabbed from behind by a man who told her: 'Scream and I'll kill you.'
When her boyfriend came to find her and saw her being attacked by the man
alleged to be Baker he shouted at him.

The court heard Baker punched him and pretended the victim was actually his
girlfriend before fleeing the scene.

An hour later Baker allegedly indecently assaulted a 21-year-old woman in the
town. Semen found on the victim matched Baker's and his fingerprints were found
on her shoes, said Mr Hilliard.

Other indecent assaults allegedly took place near Willesden Green Underground
station in North London on May 13 the first of the attacks and in other parts of
the capital.

The last alleged incident happened in Regent's Park, Central London on December
11, when a woman walking home from work managed to fight Baker off.

'The evidence is overwhelming,' Mr Hilliard told the jury. 'I can say that with
some confidence because the defendant admits he was the person who attacked the
four women who were raped but it is disputed that the women were raped. That is
the issue on the rape counts and you will have to consider whether the women are
right or mistaken or lying for some reason.

'They do not know him and he did not know them so there is no personal animosity
why he should do it. Could they be in a muddle when they say that in the sexual
attack they were raped?' Baker, whose face cannot be shown for legal reasons,
was connected to one attack by blood on the alleged victim's jacket and was
later picked out at an identity parade. He stole a mobile phone after an
indecent assault and was linked by police to calls made straight afterwards, the
court heard.

He was also caught on security cameras using a cashcard stolen after another
assault.

Baker, from Bodmin, Cornwall, denies four counts of rape, two of indecent
assault, one attempted indecent assault and one affray.

He has pleaded guilty to four charges of indecent assault and one of assault
occasioning actual bodily harm.

He was based in Spain at the time of the alleged attacks, but was a frequent
visitor to England. The trial continues.

-


LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: RICHARD BAKER: ARRESTED AT HEATHROW AFTER JILL DANDO FEATURED THE
ATTACKS ON BBC TV'S CRIMEWATCH

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              319 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 12, 1999, Wednesday

DJ 'RAPED WOMEN IN SERIES OF ATTACKS' REIGN OF TERROR'

BYLINE: Shenai Raif And Pat Clarke

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 484 words


A DISC jockey raped four women and attacked eight others between last May and
December, the Old Bailey was told yesterday. Richard Baker, 34, left
overwhelming scientific evidence at the rape scenes, said Nicholas Hilliard, for
the prosecution.

The other victims were indecently assaulted, he said. One screamed and another
escaped. In one attack the defendant was disturbed and the ordeal ended. In two
incidents the attacker was fought off.

Baker, originally from Bodmin, Cornwall, but now of no fixed address, has denied
committing four rapes in Brighton, Essex and north London. He also denies two
indecent assaults, one attempted indecent assault and a charge of affray. Baker
admitted four indecent assaults and one assault causing actual bodily harm.

Evidence from semen and saliva was found, Mr Hilliard said. "DNA profiles left
by the attacker match the defendant. He admits he attacked the women, but it is
disputed that they were raped." The jury would have to consider whether the
women were lying or mistaken. "The alternative is that the defendant does not
want to admit to the very grave offences of rape."

The attacker had sometimes threatened to kill his victim, put an arm round her
neck - or tried to get sympathy by telling a sob story, said the prosecution.
The first indecent assault he denied was on a 22-year- old woman walking home
from Willesden Underground station, north London. She heard quickening footsteps
and was grabbed round the neck by a tanned stranger. "He had spent some time in
Spain working as a DJ, which may account for his tanned skin," Mr Hilliard said.

Baker put a hand over her mouth and allegedly said: "Shut up or I will kill
you." At the end of the assault, the attacker began to sob, threatened to kill
her, then said he was sorry "but at least I did not rape you".

Six days later another woman was indecently assaulted as she walked home from
Highgate Tube station. Baker admitted that attack, said Mr Hilliard. He had told
her he wanted to masturbate. She twisted free and escaped.

Four days after that, a 16-year-old schoolgirl was raped as she went to meet her
mother at about midnight, Mr Hilliard said. She begged her attacker not to rape
her, and he said he would not but was "just a dirty old man". But he did rape
her, the court was told, then threatened to kill her if she told anyone. "He
said he had seen her in school uniform and knew where she lived and her route
home," the prosecution said.

Last September, Baker made three attacks within a few hours, two in Southend
-on-Sea, Essex, a third in north London, Mr Hilliard said. They involved a girl
of 16, a woman aged 18 and a woman of 26.

His final attack came on December 11 when a woman fought him off in north
London. Baker was arrested later that month at Heathrow as he tried to catch an
international flight.

The trial continues today.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              320 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                  May 15, 1999

WOMAN TELLS COURT OF MAN'S 'JEKYLL AND HYDE' CHANGE;
 Terror of sex -attack DJ's victim

BYLINE: Shenai Raif

SECTION: News, Pg.16/ 49

LENGTH: 322 words



RICHARD Baker, the disc jockey accused of a string of sex attacks, was yesterday
described by one of his victims as a ''Jekyll and Hyde'' character.

The 22-year-old told the Old Bailey that Baker acted like a teacher one minute
and threatened to ''smash her head in'' the next.

Baker, originally from Bodmin, Cornwall, has admitted indecently assaulting the
woman and four other charges. He is being tried on a further eight charges,
including four of rape.

The court was told that Baker attacked the woman in her home in Kilburn, North
London, on October 29 last year. In her statement, the victim said Baker had
tricked his way in by saying he was another tenant.

She said: ''I was begging him not to harm me. I was so scared. He seemed like a
Jekyll and Hyde character. I was very frightened.

''He was speaking to me as if I was a child. I said 'please don't rape me'. He
was speaking as if these were instructions from a teacher. He was almost
explaining the facts of life to me."

The attack ended when the woman heard the door to the house open and tricked
Baker into believing her boyfriend had returned.

The judge, Recorder David Stokes, QC, lifted a ban on publishing photographs of
Baker.

The court yesterday heard written evidence from a further two women attacked by
Baker and a 21-year-old woman gave evidence on a charge denied by Baker.

A 25-year-old woman said she was grabbed and indecently assaulted as she entered
her block of flats in Marylebone, central London, on December 11, last year.

A 35-year-old student said she lashed out at Baker when he grabbed her on a
bridge in nearby Regent's Park a short time later.

The 21-year-old woman Baker denies indecently assaulting in East London, said
she was pounced on after leaving Bethnal Green underground station on her way
home from work.

The jury was sent home until Monday, when the defence is expected to begin its
case.


LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              321 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                              May 16, 1999, Sunday

SIEGE TERROR OF THE SEX BEAST;
Angry mob attacks pervert Catweazle's home

SECTION: Page 5

LENGTH: 400 words


THE evil sex beast known as Catweazle cowered behind curtains as a mob stoned
his windows.

And as neighbours vowed to hound him out, George Belmonte's ex-wife Laura issued
a chilling warning: "He WILL strike again.

"He is hoping to lure a young girl into a forest so he can abuse her.

"No child is safe while he goes free. He should be locked up forever."

She was speaking just hours after more than 100 vigilante villagers, laid siege
to the house in Kirkcudbright.

They chanted threats and hurled stones at every window.

George McKenzie, spokesman for an action group set up to force Belmonte out,
said: "The people will be back each night until the authorities move him away.

"They are living in fear for their children. They are very angry."

Belmonte - dubbed Catweazle because he's said to resemble the TV wizard - has
been driven out of Newton Stewart and Whithorn since leaving jail in October.

In this latest incident, police rushed to council-owned Boreland House as a mob
pelted the building. Reinforcements came from Stranraer - 50 miles away - as
well as Dumfries and Newton Stewart, to stop the doors being smashed.

They spent the night surrounding the house to protect the 67-year-old beast, who
has been jailed six times for sex offences against youngsters.

One defiant teenager said: "We'll get him one way or another. It's not just the
children we're worried about - women are frightened of him."

Meanwhile, granny Laura, conned by Belmonte into marrying him in jail and
becoming his third wife, said she had got a letter from him.

"He enjoys the attention he has been getting. But the danger will be when he
decides he's had enough and takes off."

Laura revealed that Belmonte had asked social workers for a tent.

She added: "If they are stupid enough to give him a tent, he'll head off and
no-one will find him.

"He is used to living rough. No-one will recognise him until it's too late and a
child has been attacked. He told me he had befriended a teenage boy and was
hoping to use him to lure a young girl into a forest."

He also told of sexual high jinks with a carer who does his shopping.

In February, Belmonte became the first pervert banned from talking to children
or going in play parks, schools or swimming pools under the new Crime Disorder
Act.

The local council is now believed to be drawing up hush-hush plans to move him
on.


LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1999 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              322 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                              May 16, 1999, Sunday

GUN ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: Page 37

LENGTH: 65 words


A 54-YEAR-OLD man was yesterday recovering after a terrifying ordeal at the
hands of a gunman.

The drama began when he answered his door in Avondale Avenue, East Kilbride, to
a man who forced his way in.

The thug threatened him with a firearm and knife and tied him up.

The stocky attacker fled after two hours with cash and pres-cription drugs,
leaving the man slightly injured.


LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1999 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              323 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                         May 17, 1999, Monday Edition 1

Arrests after attack terror

BYLINE: By PETER TAYLOR

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 152 words


   POLICE have arrested a gang accused of terrorising a teenager in his own
home.

The four youths will face magistrates after every window in the young victim's
home was smashed.

A baseball bat, cricket bat and a stick were used in the late-night attack on
the house in Kings Park, Scotland Gate, Ashington.

Police said four youths went into the house and threatened a 17-year-old who
lived there.

They then went outside and smashed every ground floor window, including the
French doors, before making off. Police who investigated later arrested four
youths.

Brothers Nicky and Paul Harris, aged 18 and 20, are charged with violent
disorder, along with two youths aged 15 and 17, who cannot be named for legal
reasons.

They were given police bail to appear before magistrates at Bedlington on June
21.

The 15-year-old youth is from Ashington. The other accused are all from
Bedlington.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              324 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                  May 18, 1999

Living in terror;
 Ordeal goes on for attack victim, 12

BYLINE: Clare Kitchen

SECTION: News, Pg.12

LENGTH: 423 words




A YOUNG schoolgirl who was savagely beaten in a mindless attack is still living
in terror of her teenaged assailant weeks after the assault.

The 12-year-old, whose head was battered against a wall until her cheek bone,
nose and eye socket were broken and her whole face was battered and bruised, is
so traumatised she is still unable to sleep alone at night.

Her mother stays by her side and has promised not to put the flowers sent by
wellwishers and schoolfriends in the window of their Bath home for fear the
brute who attacked her will find out where she lives.

The girl's mother, who has asked not to be named to safeguard her daughter's
identity, said: "I'm sleeping next to her each night because she won't sleep on
her own."

She said she feared her daughter would never regain her confidence after the
terrifying attack, which took place on April 28 as she walked along a lane to
her school. She added: "She used to go off so happy and she was so confident - I
just feel that she won't ever feel that way again.

"And I have nightmares about what happened to her. To think that somebody got
her and did that - I can't really understand it."

The mother said the horror of hearing what had happened to her child would never
leave her.

Awful

"When I saw her it was devastating," she said. "You never expect to see your
child after an accident in that state. But to see her and know that someone had
done it to her was awful.

"I just thank God it wasn't worse."

The girl is still recovering at home after more than a week of hospital
treatment for her injuries and is being helped to come to terms with her ordeal
by teachers and friends who have been visiting her.

Detectives at Bath police station continue to work on the case and believe
someone knows who carried out the attack. They think a parent may know or
suspect that their son was involved and have urged them to come forward.

The attacker is described as white, in his late teens, with shaven dark brown
hair and a wide forehead. He wore a bright yellow zip-up sports jacket, which
possibly had a black motif on the breast pocket.

Officers believe he lives locally to the scene of the attack in a lane linking
Edgeworth Road to Rush Hill.

The Western Daily Press's sister paper the Bath Chronicle has put up a 5,000
reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of the attacker and
an anonymous West businessman has matched that figure.

Anyone with information is asked to contact Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              325 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                  May 22, 1999

Terror attacks spark exodus from Antrim;
 Residents put homes on market

BYLINE: By Gary Grattan

LENGTH: 396 words


DOZENS of residents in Antrim have put their homes up for sale in a bid to
escape growing intimidation in the town.

Upwards of 40 'for sale' signs have appeared on houses in the predominantly
Protestant Parkhall and Steeple estates.

Many belong to Catholics, who feel increasingly vulnerable after a spate of
attacks by dissident loyalist terrorists on people, homes and pubs.

But Protestants who have bought their own homes are also desperate to get out.

As sectarian tensions grip the town, local councillors from both sides of the
political divide have united in a new new 'terror task force'.

The committee - the brainchild of Alliance councillor Brian McConnell - will see
unionist and Sinn Fein members co- operating together.

Representatives of the Housing Executive, the DoE, local churches, the police
and community groups will also be included.

Meanwhile, Antrim Ministers' Fellowship which represents all the main Churches
has contacted RUC Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan and Secretary of State Mo
Mowlam about the "calculated campaign of destruction and intimidation".

And SDLP Assemblyman Donovan McClelland has requested a meeting with Irish
Premier Bertie Ahern on the matter.

This week loyalists reacted angrily when police initiated the removal of UVF
flags and emblems which had been erected on lamp posts.

Mr McClelland said Protestants as well as Catholics were putting their homes on
the market.

"I feel very sorry for these people. Many of them used the redundancy they got
when the British Enkalon factory closed to buy their own homes and upgrade them.

"They are decent people, many in their 50s and 60s, who even if they can get a
buyer will be selling at a loss.

"But they are so disgusted at what is happening that they are desperate to get
away."

Mayor Paddy Marks said: "It would be a great tragedy if these people felt forced
to move because these estates would be losing some of the real stalwarts of
their community."

The two councillors said the new committee would examine ways to counter the
intimidation effectively.

"I just hope and pray we can break the cycle of fear,"said Mr Marks.

Mr McClelland added: "We all have a duty to act and give leadership to the
community. Failure to do so will create a vacuum that the bigots and extremists
will be only too happy to fill."


LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              326 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                                  May 24, 1999

Crime
 Terrorist on attack charge

SECTION: Crime, Pg.1

LENGTH: 305 words


A former Irish terrorist convicted of murder has appeared in Cheltenham
Magistrates' Court charged with grievous bodily harm.

The killer was given a life sentence for his crimes although he co-operated with
the authorities.

He was later let out on licence, but had it revoked on two occasions: in 1992
and 1995 following incidents in Blackpool.

He was given a new identity passport, bank account and driving licence.

The terrorist is subject of a section 11 order under the Contempt of Court act
banning the press from identifying him for fear of affecting national security
and harming the Irish peace process.

In issuing the order, chairman of the bench Prof Angela Newing said it was made
to protect the defendant and make sure the Northern Ireland peace process was
not harmed "at a delicate stage of its progress".

The defendant stood in the dock wearing a red jacket and dark rimmed glasses. He
had black hair, was unshaven and spoke with an Irish accent. A solitary security
officer stood guard.

Only the terrorist's brother sat at the back of the court.

The 46-year -old, who is charged with GBH and perverting the course of justice,
is alleged to have broken Terry Cull's cheek-bone.

Cull, who has also been arrested in connection with the incident, is alleged to
have attempted to rob him on April 2 near Coronation Square.

The court heard the Irish man was arrested at the house of his estranged wife in
Manchester in the early hours of Friday.

DC David Fryatt, of Gloucestershire Police, said the man had left Cheltenham
some weeks ago and travelled to Blackpool to see his wife and children.

Then the children were suddenly taken out of school and the family moved to
Manchester.

Tim Robinson, defending, said: "There's a lot more to this than meets the eye."

The defendant was remanded in custody until Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1999 Gloucestershire Echo

                              327 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                  May 26, 1999

terroR attack by CAR thugs Sub Head: ordeal: Brave boyfriend dragged along road

BYLINE: N By Steve Grant

SECTION: Pg.1

LENGTH: 321 words


A BRAVE boyfriend was dragged 30ft by a car as he tried to stop three men who
attacked his girlfriend in a terrifying incident in the heart of Plymouth's
clubland early today.

Seconds after he was thrown clear, the car hit a naval rating, before speeding
off.

Both men are now recovering from the ordeal, and police said they were lucky not
to have been more seriously injured.

The drama unfolded at around 2.40am as clubgoers spilled on to Union Street.

Police today said the boyfriend was attacked as he stepped in to stop a group of
men who had indecently assaulted his 23-year-old girlfriend.

He was was punched and kicked as a scuffle broke out before the attackers jumped
into a green Nissan Bluebird car.

Clubgoers who were heading for home along Union Street then watched in horror as
the man, also 23, was dragged 30ft along the road.

The man, who is believed to be from Bristol, escaped with minor injuries. The
naval rating also suffered only minor injuries.

The car was stopped in Western Approach shortly after the incident.

A police spokesman said: "We are examining CCTV tapes to see what happened. It
would appear the girl was indecently assaulted.

"As her boyfriend tried to stop the men getting away in a car he was assaulted
and then dragged along by the car as it tried to move off.

"He was leaning in the car trying to stop it which is something we are told not
to do under any circumstances. He was very fortunate not to have been more
seriously injured.

"A naval rating was standing in front of the car as it sped off and he was
knocked over. Only minor injuries were suffered by all parties involved."

Detectives are appealing for witnesses to the incident.

Anyone with information should contact Charles Cross CID on 0990 777444 or call
the confidential Crimestoppers line on 0800 555111.

Three men in their 20s were today due to be questioned at Charles Cross police
station.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1999 Evening Herald

                              328 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             May 27, 1999, Thursday

THREE CLEARED OF TERROR ATTACK ON GIRLS

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 141 words


Three men have been acquitted of terrorising two teenage girls at a house in
Birmingham.

Mr Tyrone Soloman, aged 20, of Knightstone Avenue, Hockley, Mr Courtney Jarvis,
aged 19, of Augustine Grove, Winson Green and Mr Delroy Baker, aged 18, of
Bidford Road, Northfield, were all found not guilty of a charge of possessing a
firearm with intent by a jury at the city's Crown Court.

They were also acquitted of conspiring to commit indecent assault while Mr
Soloman was found not guilty of a charge of rape.

It was alleged the girls, aged 14 and 15 at the time, were taken to a house in
Winson Green and raped after a shotgun was brandished by one of the men. Mr
Soloman said the younger girl consented to sex.

Earlier a fourth man, Mr Stephen Walker, aged 20, of Lees Street, Winson Green,
was also found not guilty of rape.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              329 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 27, 1999

Terrorists hold Greece hostage;
As attacks escalate, Washington tells Athens it is running the most dangerous
country in Europe

BYLINE: Helena Smith in Athens

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 598 words


Helena Smith in Athens

Greece has become the most dangerous place in Europe for US diplomats,
businessmen and tourists, according to Nato, because of the resurgence of the
extreme leftwing terrorist group November 17.

Yesterday the US secretary of state Madeleine Albright, the defence secretary
William Cohen, and other US officials voiced their alarm about the violence in
talks in Washington with the Greek foreign minister, George Papandreou.

Last month the Clinton administration issued a 'public announcement' warning
tour-ists of the dangers of anti-US sentiment in Greece.

Nato officials fear that Greece - more than Italy, which last week saw the
rebirth of the Red Brigades after 11 years of inactivity - is now the most
dangerous country in Europe.

A spate of brazen attacks on diplomatic compounds, foreign banks and the
Intercontinental Hotel has prompted normally phlegmatic Greek officials to
tighten security at more than 500 British and other potential targets in Athens.

This week there was a glimmer of hope in the search for Europe's most-wanted
underground militia with the discovery of a bloodstained car and cap close to
the scene of the November 17 rocket attack 10 days ago on the German
ambassador's residence.

The ambassador emerged unhurt but the police believe that one of the terrorists
may have been injured.

Officials struggling to grapple with the resurgence of terrorism, apparently in
retaliation for Nato's bombing of Yugoslavia, are afraid that it is only a
matter of time before the organisation strikes again.

'What we are seeing is a resurgence of worldwide terrorist activity by groups on
both the left and right denouncing the new world order,' said Dr Mary Bossi, an
expert in political violence.

'Here, more than perhaps any other EU country, groups who may have no ideology
at all are appearing more and more.'

Last year the majority of international terrorist incidents in Europe occurred
in Athens, according to the US state department. November 17 claimed
responsibility for six attacks on US businesses.

November 17 was formed 24 years ago and has claimed responsibility for 22
murders. Its attacks are often conducted in broad daylight, the assailants
simply walking away.

'We realise that this has become a huge problem, more serious than perhaps
anything else we are currently dealing with,' Michalis Chrysohoidis, the Greek
public order minister, said.

'I don't think it's too much to say that these attacks are liter ally murdering
Greece to the point that counter-terrorism has become the government's top
priority.'

Mr Chrysohoidis said he was overhauling the 300-strong anti-terrorist squad. Its
counter-terrorism experts are due to visit Britain and America to be retrained
in surveillance techniques and bombing analysis.

Police ineptitude and tardiness have long been blamed for the lack of headway in
combating terrorism. But, until now, so has political will.

November 17's very durability, western security officials based in Athens say,
'begs a whole bag of questions'.

Its impenetrability and inside knowledge have led many to suggest that it has
connections with security forces, the army and even the state.

It has been keen to cultivate a Robin Hood image by targeting the wicked (junta
torturers) and rich (industrialists and shipowners), and taking care never to
kill innocents bystanders.

'The sad truth is that after 25 years we know absolutely nothing about November
17. All we have are files filled with newspaper clippings,' Dr Bossi said.


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              330 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 5, 1999, Saturday

WOMAN KILLED IN ULSTER TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 286 words


A woman was killed when an explosion rocked a house in Portadown early today.

The victim, who was in her late 50s, died after the blast in Corcrain Drive
shortly before 1am today, said the Royal Ulster Constabulary.

No one else was injured in the explosion, which is under investigation by police
and army bomb experts.

"At this stage, police have no motive for that attack," said a RUC spokesman.

Minutes later, a second explosion was reported at a house in Westland Road.
There were no reports of casualties.

Army bomb disposal teams were ordered to both scenes to launch an investigation
into the explosions - thought locally to be caused by pipe bombs.

Police ordered the evacuation of neighbouring houses while the scenes were
examined.

The explosions happened amid deepening tensions in Portadown over the Drumcree
crisis, with further talks aimed at settling the dispute due to resume later
today.

Acas official Frank Blair presided over proximity discussions yesterday
involving Orange Order leaders and representatives of Garvaghy Road residents.

Barred

The talks ended yesterday evening with no signs of an immediate breakthrough.
They were due to resume today.

Meetings, scheduled to last the weekend, were the latest effort to try and agree
a compromise in advance of the anniversary of the annual parade on July 4.

Orangemen have been protesting at Drumcree since their annual march was barred
from going down the mainly nationalist Garvaghy Road in July last year.

The British and Irish governments fear that unless an accommodation is reached
soon, this summer could see serious violence which could plunge the peace
process into major difficulties.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              331 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                  June 5, 1999

Terror attack on bus driver

BYLINE: By Citizen Reporter

SECTION: Pg.5

LENGTH: 283 words


A TEENAGE bus driver from Gloucester was dragged from his cab in a suspected
road rage attack at Upton St Leonards, police said.

The driver of a silver estate car pulled the worried 19-year-old driver from the
bus and across a road before pushing him up against steel railings on a bridge
over the motorway.

The attack ended when another motorist pulled over to help the Stagecoach bus
driver, who was left shaken but uninjured.

A police spokesman said the attack happened at the junction of the Ashgrove
Estate shortly after 6pm on Thursday.

The bus, a number three, was on the return journey from Clarence Street in
Gloucester city centre to Upton St Leonards via Abbeydale and back, and had
dropped off all its passengers outside Upton St Leonards Post Office only
minutes earlier.

Followed

The bus driver noticed a car approaching from behind, flashing its lights and
honking its horn as he headed along Churchfield Lane. He was still being
followed as he turned into Bond End Road.

The car then overtook him and swerved across in front of the bus at the junction
of The Ashpath and and Ashgrove Estate.

A Gloucestershire police spokesman said: "The driver boarded the bus and pulled
its driver from the cab. He was then pushed against the motorway bridge
railings. It must have been a very frightening experience for the bus driver."

Police are now asking for witnesses to the attack or anyone with any information
to contact them.

The attacker is described as white, about 30 years old, around 6ft tall and of
stocky build. He was wearing a fleece top, blue jeans and black shoes.

Gloucester Stagecoach Citibus manager Mark Turner was unavailable for comment
yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1999 The Gloucester Citizen

                              332 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                  June 7, 1999

Bomb victim buried today;
 Police warn of further attacks by terror group

BYLINE: By Darwin Templeton

LENGTH: 483 words


RUC Chief Constable Sir Ronnie Flanagan has warned of more loyalist attacks as
Portadown prepared for the funeral of bomb victim Elizabeth O'Neill.

He said: "I think that these people intend, among other things, to ratchet it
up. It's a worrying time ahead.

"I think, with sense on all sides, we can avoid the dreadful scenes that we have
seen in previous years.

"I expect that we can do that, but undoubtedly there are those intent on
cementing trouble."

Four men and a woman arrested on Saturday are still being quizzed by detectives
about the murder.

Both the LVF and the Orange Volunteers denied responsibility for the attack, but
Sir Ronnie said he would not accept the LVF statement "at face value".

He said: "We're keeping a very open mind."

Mrs O'Neill (59), was brought up as a Protestant, but married a Catholic.

A fan of motorbike racing, she had stayed up late to watch the Isle of Man TT on
television when the attack took place.

Her last words to husband Joseph before he went to bed were: "If Joey Dunlop
doesn't retire soon, he'll end up hurting himself."

Moments later, the bomb came crashing through the window of her home in the
Corcrain area of the town.

It is thought that Mrs O'Neill may have picked up the device to throw it outside
to safety, but it exploded killing her instantly.

Grief-stricken son Martin branded her killers as cowards and asked: "Is my
mother's life worth the seven minute walk down the Garvaghy Road?"

He added: "Mum and dad have lived happily here for 36 years.

"They had friends from all walks of life. Religion just never came into it."

Mr O'Neill said his mother had been looking forward to her retirement, when she
could spend more time with his two-year-old son Reece.

He said: "Reece was her only grandchild and she lived for him.

"He was her pride and joy. Now she won't get the chance to see him grow up."

The killing of Mrs O'Neill came during a wave of pipe bomb attacks, which
politicians believe were designed to derail Drumcree proximity talks in Belfast.

At a house a short distance from the O'Neills' home, a window was broken by a
missile, but the bomb fell short and exploded in the garden.

A woman, a teenage girl and 10- month-old baby in the house escaped unhurt.

On the same night, two houses in East Belfast and another at Hilltown, Co Down
were attacked.

Army experts made safe another two devices which were found at Acacia Avenue,
Twinbrook, yesterday.

Dr John Dixon, the outgoing Moderator of the Presbyterian Church, described the
activities of those who carried out the attack as "sinful, vile and utterly
evil."

Catholic Church leader Archbishop Sean Brady condemned those responsible for the
murder and appealed to them and their leaders to "realise that these senseless
deeds are only making the resolution of conflict more difficult."


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              333 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                  June 9, 1999

Thugs get 10 years for hotel terror attack

SECTION: Crime: assault, Pg.7

LENGTH: 376 words


A HOTEL guest was kicked, punched and beaten with pool cues after a break-in
went "disastrously wrong," the High Court in Aberdeen heard today.

Lee Doherty, 24, and Michael Gallacher, 21, were jailed a total of 10 years
today after admitting the brutal assault and robbery on Antony Walker in the
Mansfield House Hotel, Tain.

The masked pair burst into the hotel just after midnight on February 15 and set
upon Mr Walker, who they had mistaken as the manager.

Advocate depute Alexander Bolland said during the terrifying attack one of the
men snapped a cigar cutter in front of the victim's face and told him
chillingly: "Good for fingers, eh?"

The ordeal began with Doherty brandishing a welding hammer while Gallacher
wielded pool cues.

Mr Bolland said they both then set upon the unsuspecting guest with the cues.

"He was repeatedly hit on the head and body and continually kicked and punched
as he lay on the ground," said Mr Bolland.

At one point Mr Walker managed to get to his feet and staggered to use the
reception telephone, but was seen and then smashed on the arm twice with the
cue.

Despite explaining he was just a guest, the pair demanded to know where the safe
was, Mr Bolland added.

One of the men said if a fellow guest spotted what was going on and started
screaming, "things would get uglier."

It was then that Mr Walker was threatened with the cigar cutter.

A fellow guest who had seen what was going on called the police on a mobile
phone in her room, Mr Bolland said.

When police arrived, both men were arrested.

Mr Bolland said: "While Gallacher was lying on the ground being handcuffed, he
turned his head to Mr Walker and mouthed the words: "I'm sorry."

The pair also robbed Mr Walker of a wallet, credit cards, personal papers, GBP
23.91 in cash and a watch.

Doherty's defence advocate Ian Duguid said it was a robbery that went wrong.

"He is deeply sorry. It must have been very frightening," he added.

First offender Gallacher's lawyer said the break -in went "disastrously wrong".

Docherty, from Tain, was jailed for six years, and Gallacher, a prisoner in
Inverness, for four.

, Lord Johnston said: "The degree of violence was completely unnecessary and I
have to make an example out of you both."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1999 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              334 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 10, 1999

Family terror at road rage attack frenzy

SECTION: Pg. 31

LENGTH: 187 words


A DRIVER had part of an ear bitten off in a frenzied 'road rage' attack while
his wife and two young daughters looked on.

Two men in their twenties bit 41-year-old Glen Thomas repeatedly and tried to
gouge out his eyes. His wife Suzy, 36, was also punched.

Surgeons were unable to reattach the top of Mr Thomas's right ear, and his
11-year-old daughter suffered a black eye when the fleeing attackers reversed
into the family's Vauxhall Cavalier as they drove off.

'They were like wild dogs,' the aircraft engineer said yesterday. 'I could hear
one of my daughters shouting, "Get off my dad".' Mr Thomas, whose other daughter
is eight, added: 'It has had a terrible effect on them.' The attack happened on
Sunday as the family drove from their home near Monmouth, Gwent, to visit
relatives in the Forest of Dean. They were pursued for two miles by a grey F-reg
Ford Sierra. When Mr Thomas pulled over, it stopped and the attack followed.

Police are looking for two men, one 6ft with blond hair in a pony tail, the
other 5ft 8in with short brown hair, and their passenger, a blonde woman of 18.


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              335 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 12, 1999

Iran accused of Scud attack on 'terrorists'

SECTION: Pg. 40

LENGTH: 315 words


BAGHDAD: Iran was accused yesterday of launching a Scud missile attack on an
opposition base in Iraq.

Three long-range ground-to-ground missiles were fired at exiled Iranian
Mujahideen soldiers who use Iraq as a springboard for attacks on the Tehran
regime.

A government spokesman in Baghdad said the attack followed seven 'terrorist'
acts by Iranian agents inside the country, ending in a car bomb attack on
Wednesday that killed several Iraqis and six members of the Mujahideen Khalq
guerilla group.

He said it was similar to border skirmishes that erupted into an eight-year
between the countries in the Eighties. 'This aggressive and foolish act reminds
us of the foolish acts 19 years ago and are a dangerous escalation to the
situation,' the spokesman said.

The Scud attack took place hours after the Mujahideen buried their six fighters
near a camp at Ashraf, 65 miles north east of Baghdad.

One of the missiles gouged out a crater 25ft in diameter and 12ft deep.

The group, which has more than 30,000 militarily-trained members in 17 camps
near the Iran-Iraq border, said there were no casualties at the base, but that
several were reported among Iraqis in a village nearby.

Its spokesman, Freed Suleimani, said a fourth missile had been fired but
exploded before hitting the ground.

The Iranian government, which denied involvement in the attack, is a frequent
target of the Mujahideen who are equipped with tanks, heavy guns and helicopter
gunships.

Similarly, the Mujahideen have been the target of air and rocket attacks by
Iran, but officials said Thursday's attack was the worst since 1993, when the
group moved to Iraq.

The Iranians appear to have stepped up attacks on the Mujahideen since the group
claimed two months ago to have assassinated the Iranian armed forces' deputy
chief of staff, Lieutenant-General Ali Sayyad Shirazi.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              336 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            June 16, 1999, Wednesday

ACTOR TELLS OF ATTACK IN BANANA-RAGE CAR TERROR

BYLINE: Melvyn Howe

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 398 words


An actor told a jury yesterday how a litterbug motorist ran him down after a row
over a discarded banana skin.

Stephen Wright, who still walks with a limp several months after the incident,
said his problems began when he decided he simply could not let the driver get
away with his untidiness.

"I live round there so I didn't appreciate this happening.

"I picked it up, told him he had dropped it and might like to have it back."

But all he got from Seyfi Cinar in return was a mouthful of abuse, he claimed.

"So I just put the banana skin on his bonnet," Mr Wright told London Southwark
Crown Court.

As he walked across the road he suddenly heard a loud revving sound as the
motorist allegedly jumped red traffic lights and drove towards him.

"I didn't have time to get away. I just jumped into the air. It was purely
instinct. Either that or go under the wheels."

Mr Wright, who also works as a stage manager, said the car struck his knee so
hard he was thrown on to the bonnet, injuring his hip.

"My shopping went one way, my briefcase the other," he said.

Although unable to find a hand-hold, the car's momentum prevented him from
falling off.

But after about 30ft Cinar alleged swerved one way and then the other, hurling
him to the ground, before speeding out of sight.

"I just sat in the middle of the road. I couldn't believe what had happened,"
said Mr Wright.

Having made a note of the vehicle's registration number, he dialled 999 as soon
as he arrived home to report the matter.

Next day he woke in "terrible pain" and had been undergoing intensive
physiotherapy since the incident last November, he told the court.

Cinar (28), of Bright Street, Poplar, east London, denies one count of dangerous
driving.

Earlier, Ms Janet Boston, prosecuting, said it was the Crown's case that the
driver had used the Honda Accord as "some kind of weapon".

She said that by the time police traced Cinar to his home he had already sold
the car.

However, in a statement to police the motorist insisted that Mr Wright had
become aggressive and had made him so frightened that all he wanted to do was to
drive off.

But before he realised what had happened he alleged victim was on the bonnet of
his car.

Not knowing what to do and worried there might be a fight, he then drove off, he
said.

The trial continues today .

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              337 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             June 20, 1999, Sunday

PIPE BOMB KILLERS PLANNING ATTACKS IN REPUBLIC;
 TERRORISTS IN SECRET MEETINGS

BYLINE: Fiona May

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 436 words


CRAZED loyalist killers behind a pipe-bomb terror campaign in the North are set
to launch dozens of attacks in the Republic, security sources said last night.

Sunday People has learned that a tro of shadowy terror groups met in secret in
recent days to discuss a comprehensive bombing plan.

The Red Hand Defenders, Orange Volunteers and now the Ulster Resistance groups
have teamed up to draw up the murder plans.

Security chiefs fear the addition of the Ulster Resistance to the terror plan
may give 'activists' the capability to launch car bomb attacks south of the
Border.

Sunday People has learned that RUC officers have warned Gardai of the 'volatile'
situation within extreme loyalism at the moment.

Attacks will be co-ordinated to take place in the run-up to the Drumcree parade,
planned for July 4.

Security sources say the loyalist plan is 'incredibly similar' to a foiled UDA
plot 10 years ago.

That crazed scheme - called Operation Snowball - involved setting off bombs in
Dublin and other major cities like Limerick, Galway and Cork.

Our source told us last night: "Normally we would treat such threats with a fair
degree of scepticism.

"But the Ulster Resistance group has effectively taken control of dissident
loyalism in Mid-Ulster and it is they who will be pulling the strings and
orchestrating violence across Northern Ireland in the run-up to Drumcree.

"We believe that there are members of the Ulster Resistance who know how to
assemble and make car bombs. That is our worry.

"They want to take the Drumcree issue south of the border this year."

Even an attempted attack in the south could have a catastrophic effect on
tourism this summer.

RUC officers have already drawn up contingency plans to deal with widespread
street disturbances in the North.

Violence only wained last year after the sectarian murders of the three Quinn
brothers in a petrol bomb attack in Ballymoney.

Many Orangemen who had taken part in street protests quit within hours of that
horror.

But the hardline dissidents have remained unmoved by the Ballymoney murders - or
other acts of violence.

Billy Hutchinson, a member of the pro-Agreement Progressive Unionist Party, told
Sunday People: "These people are living in the past.

"I think they are capable of getting their hands on the materials necessary.

"But I am not convinced they have the know-how when it comes to attacks in the
south."

But he added: "You can't rule anything out. It's just unfortunate that there are
still people who want to fight to settle differences, rather than talk."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EVIL: A pipe bomb of the type used to murder Craigavon woman Elizabeth
O'Neill.; Right, police look for clues after the bomb was thrown through her
house window; VICTIM: Elizabeth O'Neill

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              338 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        June 21, 1999, Monday Edition 3

Knife maniac in funfair attack - Father tells of his terror after being slashed
by thug

BYLINE: by Brenda Hickman crime Reporter

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 413 words


   A FATHER told today how a visit to Tyneside's Hoppings funfair turned to
terror when he was attacked by a drug-crazed knifeman.

The 25-year-old was one of three people slashed by the maniac, who was part of a
15-strong gang.

The Nissan car plant worker from North Tyneside was slashed across the throat,
left cheek, left forearm, right shoulder and right hand during the attack, while
his 13-month-old daughter screamed in her pram.

Detectives hunting the knifeman said he carried out another unprovoked slashing
at the Hoppings 40 minutes before the car worker and his brother-in-law were
stabbed.

Bloodbath

At his home the 25-year-old said the maniac who carried out the slashings should
be caught before someone else is attacked.

"He tried to slash my throat, he just went mad."

The man was with his wife, baby daughter and two brothers-in-law when their
night out turned into a bloodbath.

"We were walking back through Exhibition Park near the bandstand when this gang
of youths were in front of us," said the dad.

"My wife was pushing the pram and my brothers-in-law and I were walking next to
her. All we said to them was, "excuse me".

"They turned on me and one pulled out a craft-type knife. He said not to say any
more or he would cut me up - he said he was on valium.

"The other members of the gang started throwing punches. The knife man slashed
me across the face, throat and arms and my 27-year-old brother in law tried to
pull him off. He was stabbed in the back." The gang ran off towards the Jesmond
underpass and the Great North Road after the attack at about 10.40 pm on Friday.

Det Insp Dave Hall of Market Street CID said: "He is a dangerous man and must be
caught."

The father-of-two needed eight stitches to his wounds and had surgery at
Newcastle's RVI.

"If anyone knows this man they should tell the police. He is a maniac."

The knifeman was 18 - 20, about 5ft 8in, with a medium to stocky build with
short brown hair. He had a round face with stubble and was wearing dark casual
clothes and green cricket-style peaked cap with a blue band around it.

Police at Gosforth say a 17-year-old was slashed on the neck in a similar attack
at about 9.50pm at the Hoppings ground on Friday.

He needed 15 stitches to a two-inch wound and again the attacker pounced after
picking a fight with him.

Anyone who has information should contact Newcastle City police or Newcastle
North CID on [0191] 214 6555.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              339 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                 June 23, 1999

Terror attack kills pet Persian

SECTION: Animals: cats, Pg.17

LENGTH: 277 words


A DOCILE affectionate cat was savagely attacked by two dogs in front of it's
horrified owner on Sunday morning.

Eileen Collard, of Abbey Drive West, saw her seven-year-old long-haired Persian
cat ripped apart by two dogs who were foaming at the mouth.

Devastated Mrs Collard said her cat Wilber had a damaged lower spine and spleen,
broken leg, and was suffering from shock after the attack at 8.30am.

Vets battled in vain to save the pet which died on Monday lunchtime from severe
internal injuries.

Mrs Collard said she saw the two dogs, an Alsatian and a Rottweiler, run into
her garden and said she could not stop them going for her cat.

She said: "They had my cat between their teeth and I was screaming but I didn't
dare go up to them and get my cat.

"My neighbour heard me shouting for help and he sent the dogs away, by then the
cat wasn't making a sound and there was blood in her mouth. It was awful," she
said.

Mrs Collard has reported the matter to the police, but is worried that if the
dogs are allowed to carry on roaming they may harm a child next time.

"The Alsatian had a collar on so obviously belonged to someone. The other dog
may have been a stray. On their own they may be nice dogs, but together they
were frightening.

"Someone must know who these dogs belong to and I hope something is done to stop
something like this happening again.

"I've no doubt that if I hadn't been there to stop them they would have killed
my cat outright. It is very important these dogs are stopped, next time it could
be a child.

"I just feel so upset at the terrible way my cat had to die, it was such a
gruesome end," added Mrs Collard.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1999 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              340 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                 June 29, 1999

Terror attack on girl

SECTION: Crime: assault, Pg.12

LENGTH: 115 words


A SEVEN-year-old girl was attacked by two males who approached her from an
alleyway as she walked down Bramhall Street, Cleethorpes, close to May Street.
One of the youths asked her if she had any money, and then picked her up,
turning her upside down and shaking her.

The incident happened at around 3pm on Saturday, and the youth who took hold of
her is described as a white male, aged between 14 and 16 years, with short dark
hair and a centre parting.

He wore gold rimmed glasses, a grey T-shirt and black Adidas trainers.  His
accomplice was wearing black trousers and white trainers.

Anyone who has any information is asked to contact Grimsby Police on (01472)
254400.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1999 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              341 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                  July 3, 1999

Gang stab city teen in mugging terror attack

BYLINE: By

SECTION: Crime: Assault, Pg.1

LENGTH: 217 words


AN ABERDEEN teenager has been stabbed and robbed in a terrifying early -morning
attack.

The 18-year-old man was knifed in the leg and repeatedly kicked and punched by a
gang of four youths in Oldcroft Place, Stockethill.

The thugs then robbed him of a small sum of money before running of in the
direction of Foresterhill Road.

The victim was not believed to be badly hurt.

Grampian Police have released detailed descriptions of the attackers.

The first is around 5ft 4in tall, thin, clean-shaven and aged 15-17.

He was wearing a dark woolly hat with a Reebok logo, a red bubble jacket, blue
jeans and white trainers. The second is 5ft 7in, broad, clean-shaven and the
same age.

He was wearing a black woollen hat, dark coloured denim jacket, blue jeans and
dark footwear.

The third was 5ft 10in, clean-shaven, aged 17-18 with a medium build.

He was wearing a navy woollen hat with a light blue badge, a yellow thigh length
bubble jacket and blue jeans.

The fourth was 5ft 8in, clean -shaven, aged 17-18 with a broad build.

He wore a dark woollen 'Kangol' hat, a dark blouson style jacket and blue jeans.

The victim's condition is not known.

Police have appealed for anyone who saw the assault on Thursday at 2am to
contact them on 01224 386000 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1999 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              342 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                  July 6, 1999

Woman in sex attack terror

BYLINE: Clare Kitchen

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 182 words




A WOMAN was indecently assaulted by a man who crept into her home and attacked
her as she slept in her own bed.

The woman, aged 24, whose husband was not in the house at the time, was attacked
while her children slept in their room nearby.

She was asleep at her home in the Whiteway area of Bath in the early hours of
Sunday when the man entered her bedroom and assaulted her.

The victim told police she did not cry out or fight back because she was
concerned for her children's safety.

Explain

Police have not found any signs of forced entry at the house and are unable to
explain how the intruder got in.

Inspector Keith Jones at Avon and Somerset police's press office said the attack
happened at 2.25am on Sunday.

He said police were appealing for members of the public to come forward to help
them catch the offender.

He said: "Police officers are appealing for anyone who was in the Haycombe Drive
and Rosewarn Close area of Whiteway in the early hours of Sunday to come
forward.

Anyone with any information should call Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.


LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              343 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  July 7, 1999

'Terror chief planning new attacks on US'

BYLINE: Jeremy Campbell

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 326 words


THE CIA has warned that Osama bin Laden's planning of further atrocities against
US interests has reached an advanced stage.

Operatives of the world's most wanted terrorist are said to have been overheard
discussing plans similar to those used for the bombing of US embassies in Kenya
and Tanzania, which killed 224 people and injured thousands.

Six US embassies in Africa have been temporarily closed. The CIA terrorist
threat advisory says, however, that bin Laden could strike almost anywhere,
including remote locations in Asia.

Bin Laden is in hiding in Afghanistan, which has rebuffed numerous requests by
Washington to expel him to a country where he can be brought to justice.

Another strike with cruise missiles may be ordered by President Clinton, if
intelligence sources can provide reliable information as to his whereabouts.
Saudi and Gulf businessmen

have given tens of millions of dollars to help bin Laden accelerate his campaign
against the US. Since Washington put a price of $ 5 million on his head,
donations in the form of religious alms have poured in.

The Associated Press was told in Cairo that more than $ 50 million was
contributed before Saudi authorities stepped in and stopped the transfers.

The owner of one of the Gulf's largest advertising firms is said to have given
money.

President Clinton has ordered financial sanctions against the Taliban religious
militia that rules most of Afghanistan, freezing assets within US jurisdiction.
Washington believes bin Laden has set 7 August as the date for another round of
attacks, the anniversary of the bombings in Tanzania and Kenya. In an interview
with an Arabic TV station last month bin Laden expressed admiration for other
people who bombed US forces in Saudi Arabia in 1995 and 1996 and said all
Americans were legitimate targets.

Following Allied air strikes against Iraq, bin Laden called for Muslims to kill
Britons and Americans.


LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              344 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 July 13, 1999

Attack terror on the Pink Path Sub Head:

SECTION: Pg.3

LENGTH: 377 words


TWO teenage girls were forced into bushes at knifepoint and one raped, the
second seriously sexual assaulted in a terrifying ordeal lasting 30 minutes.

Detectives today released details about the incident as they appealed for
information.

Detective Inspector Mike Fowkes, of Charles Cross CID, said today: "This is a
very serious incident and we are treating it as a major inquiry. It was a
traumatic incident for them both and they are dealing with it very well.

"As they got off the bus they were in a happy frame of mind. Thirty minutes
later they were hysterical and had been assaulted.

"The man obviously had a knife and was threatening them with the knife. They
complied with every request he made and did not do anything to upset him. Had
they not, who knows what would have happened. He is obviously incredibly
dangerous and I do not want it to happen again."

The girls were grabbed as they walked along a path known as the 'Pink Path' near
Honicknowle Lane at around 7pm on Friday.

They were forced 20 to 30 feet back off the pathway into dense undergrowth
where, at knifepoint, the 15-year-old was raped and the 14-year-old seriously
sexually assaulted.

A major manhunt involving 30 officers is now under way.

DNA tests are being carried out on scores of men fitting a certain police
criteria as part of the inquiries.

Specially trained police officers have been drafted in from the Child Protection
Team to interview and support the two girls.

DI Fowkes said: "I cannot stress how serious this offence is and how serious we
are taking it and we need to get this man off the streets and into custody as
soon as possible."

The mother of one of the girls has written to the Evening Herald and thanked
police and local people for their concern and flowers and cards.

The attacker is described as white, 30 to 35 years old, about 5ft 9ins to 5ft
10ins, slim to medium build, with short brown dark hair, clean shaven with a
round face.

He was wearing a baseball cap, a checked shirt, black, red and blue in colour
and blue Adidas bottoms with yellow stripes down the sides.

He smelt of alcohol and his accent was not believed to be local.

The telephone number to call with information is 0990 700400 or Crimestoppers
0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1999 Evening Herald

                              345 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 July 16, 1999

Robbers tie up lone barman Sub Head: ATTACK: Terror as two drinkers turn on city
barman

BYLINE: N By Pppp Ppppp

SECTION: Pg.2

LENGTH: 259 words


TWO men threatened a lone barman with a knife, tied him up and stole money and
property from a Plymouth pub.

The incident happened at The Friary Pub, Bretonside in Plymouth between 9.30pm
and 10.30pm yesterday.

The men walked in, ordered a drink and then turned on the barman, threatening
him with a knife.

He was was tied up in the toilet area before the men raided the till and stole a
quantity of cash before fleeing the pub.

The terrified barman eventually managed to free himself and raced to a nearby
premises to raise the alarm.

Today, Detective Chief Inspector Steve Freeman, head of Charles Cross CID,
appealed for any witnesses who may have seen the men acting suspiciously in the
area before the attack or after the raid to contact officers. He said the barman
had been left deeply shaken by his ordeal.

He added: "He is very distressed at this time. He is very shaken."

Interviews

Detectives are today due to interview witnesses and carry out further
investigations at the scene.

Both men spoke with Scottish accents. One was described as white, 5ft 7ins, of
proportionate build, in his early 40s, with mousey blond hair and with possibly
a day's worth of facial hair growth.

The second man was white, 5ft 11ins tall, aged 39-40, with mousey brown greying
hair which was long, balding at the front and top. He was clean shaven with
several days worth of stubble.

He was wearing a light coloured top and had tattooes on his arm and upper body.

Contact the police on 0990 777444 or call Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SCENE: The Friary in Bretonside, where the robbery took place Picture
Paul Slater DQ60406

                         Copyright 1999 Evening Herald

                              346 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       July 31, 1999, Saturday Edition 1

Fears of terrorist attack 'led to VAT offences'- Court hears of barrister's
errors

BYLINE: by Peter Mccusker

SECTION: REGIONAL NEWS, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 626 words


   AFORMER Carribbean attorney general and North barrister avoided VAT because
he feared a possible "hit" by terrorists and Colombian drug barons.

Glen Dale Gatland, 51, a former attorney-general on the British dependency Turks
and Caicos Islands and a practising Newcastle barrister, pleaded guilty to three
charges of avoiding VAT, totalling more than £10,000, yesterday.

Gatland, of Bowes House, Lambton Park, Chester-le-Street, who has practised in
the North-East for more than 20 years, now faces an investigation by the Bar
Council.

Darlington magistrates heard how Gatland reached a point in 1991 where the
strains of long hours on his marriage saw him look for a fresh start.

He successfully secured the job of attorney-general on the Turks and Caicos
Islands, 90 miles north of Haiti.

Gerald Armstrong, defending, said: "He made a tremendous success of it. He also
became involved with US agencies in endeavouring to capture the head of one of
the largest Colombian drug cartels.

"It was a secret operation, which only one or two other people on the whole
island knew about.

"It involved him working undercover, at night with armed forces and it ended
with the man, one of the main drug barons in the Americas, being captured by the
authorities.

"But it had an effect. A contract was put on him and his family and as a result
he had to return to this country and he returned to the bar."

In 1996 the poor health of his Blackpool-based mother and father saw him
travelling to see them three times a week, said Mr Armstrong.

In 1997 Gatland became a "target of a terrorist organisation" when defending one
case described as a "hot potato", the court heard - believed to be that of
recently-shot IRA informer Martin McGartland.

"His personal diary from this time, which I have seen, shows he was suffering
from depression. He was probably having some form of breakdown. A lesser man
might have broken down," added Mr Armstrong.

Magistrates yesterday fined Gatland a total of £14,400, ordered him to pay costs
of £2,000, and unpaid VAT of £10,863.90. He offered to repay the money at the
rate of £250 a week.

Mr Armstrong also told the court his client was "completely taken out" by an
unknown motorist while on a German autobahn.

Gatland faced three charges brought by Customs and Excise, namely: on or about
July 30, 1997, he "recklessly made a statement, namely a VAT return for the
period April 1, 1997, to June 30, 1997 which was false . . . in that VAT due on
sale and other outputs during the period was under declared".

Two further charges relate to false VAT returns for periods between April 1 and
June 30, 1996, and between January 1 and March 31, 1996.

Michael Byrne for Customs told the court that discrepancies were noticed when
VAT inspectors called at the chambers.

During interviews Gatland blamed his lack of computer literacy for some of the
errors.

Customs were told by Gatland that a further error was the result of him spending
long periods away from his chamber.

As a result he had to telephone chambers for the figures to complete his VAT
return and he received the wrong ones - leading to a £9,000 discrepancy in this
particular case.

Mr Byrne told the court that checks discovered Gatland was "largely present at
his chambers" during the period in question.

Mr Armstrong said: "These were reckless mistakes. There is no suggestion of
dishonesty or deliberate intent. Nothing could have been hidden or covered up."

Gatland declined to comment afterwards. A spokesman for the Bar Council said:
"Once a barrister has been convicted of a crime they have a duty to report it to
the Bar Council.

"The case is then reviewed fully by our disciplinary committee."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              347 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             August 2, 1999, Monday

MUGGING VICTIM'S TERROR IN STREET;
 ATTACKER JUST RELEASED FROM PRISON BACK BEHIND BARS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 314 words


A COVENTRY man who tried to mug a woman days after being released from prison
has been sent back to jail for five years.

Mark Green, aged 21, of Portsea Close, Cheylesmore, pleaded guilty at Warwick
Crown Court to four charges of burglary and one of attempted burglary. He had
earlier admitted a charge of attempted robbery.

Green also asked for 29 other offences to be considered by the court.

Malcolm Morse, prosecuting, said Leila Rashid had been on her way to work in
Much Park Street, Coventry when she passed Green, who was sitting on a bench
with a scarf round his face.

Green, who three days earlier had been released on licence from a four- year
sentence for aggravated burglary, ran up behind her and grabbed Miss Rashid
telling her: "Shut up and give me your money. I'm not going to rape you, just
give me your money."

She screamed for help but Green put his hand over her mouth and, although she
was absolutely terrified, she tried to fight back and they fell to the ground.

Green got up and pulled her to her feet, then held her by the chin as she
continued to scream for help.

When a passer-by tried to intervene Green told him to go away and swore at him.
But the Good Samaritan stood his ground and Green fled.

He was arrested later that day but was eventually given bail.

In the following weeks he carried out a number of burglaries of properties in
Kenilworth.

Michael Burrows, defending, said: "The most serious offence is the attempted
robbery. It was extremely frightening for the victim, but the violence used was
limited and he did not resort to any blows or use any weapon."

Jailing Green for five years in total, Judge Marten Coates told him: "The
offences are extremely grave.

"The lady you robbed was a victim just three days after your release on licence,
and your attack on her was sustained and persistent."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              348 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            August 7, 1999, Saturday

OAP IN ARSON ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 190 words


POLICE are hunting an arsonist who set fire to a Leamington pensioner's home.

Quick-thinking passers-by alerted the elderly man, who was asleep as flames
engulfed his ground-floor home in Windmill Road, Old Town, shortly before 1am
yesterday.

Fire crews from Warwick and Leamington were called out to tackle the blaze in
the front bedroom, which left most of the property with severe smoke damage.

Police believe the fire was started deliberately and have launched a full
investigation.

The elderly resident was today being comforted by friends and members of the
Fire Victim Support Unit.

Det Con Adrian Shaw, of Leamington police, said the cause of the blaze pointed
to arson.

He said: "The alarm was raised by members of the public. At the moment, we are
treating this as suspicious.

"Thankfully, the elderly man who lived there and his cat were both unharmed but
obviously it is a distressing experience."

Workers from Warwick District Council were called out to make the house safe
following the blaze.

Anyone with information about the fire is urged to phone Leamington police on
01926 451111.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              349 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            August 10, 1999, Tuesday

TERROR ATTACK ON ISRAELIS

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 233 words


A PALESTINIAN on an apparent suicide mission twice ran his car into hitchhiking
Israeli soldiers injuring nine before being shot to death by Israeli troops. It
was the second terror attack in a week.

Ulster alert

IRISH army bomb experts have dealt with their fourth explosives alert in five
days. The latest scare, in the Whitehall suburb of Dublin, followed the
discovery of an unexploded artillery shell.

Soap boost

THE BBC's flagship medical drama Casualty is set for a bumper series this autumn
with the longest run of episodes in its history. Now in its 14th year, soap is
promising viewers 30 episodes.

Sweet United

MANCHESTER United have launched the first chocolate bar to bear the official
brand of a UK football club.

Plague death

A 13-YEAR-old boy has died of bubonic plague in Kazakhstan after being bitten by
a flea carrying the contagious disease, according to reports.

Druids dance

A GROUP of druids have tried to defy the weather forecast for tomorrow's solar
eclipse by carrying out a sun dance in Cornwall.

Water appeal

WATER companies should do more to help the less well-off pay their bills, says
the Government.

Jaws watch

A BID to save the basking shark - the largest fish found in British waters -
from extinction was being launched today, amid fears that the demand for an East
Asian delicacy could kill off the species.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              350 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                August 12, 1999

Shotgun attack terrorised couple
 "soured" relationship led to offences

BYLINE: By Lisa Bingham

SECTION: Crime: firearms, Pg.3

LENGTH: 436 words


A TERRIFIED husband and wife watched in horror as an old friend blasted through
their bedroom window with a sawn-off shotgun in an early dawn attack at their
South Killingholme home.

Lance Edward Thiim (22) of Mill Lane, East Halton, narrowly missed the
panic-stricken couple in the drunken shooting

He pleaded guilty to possessing a pump-action shotgun with intent to endanger
life when he appeared at Grimsby Crown Court.

He also pleaded guilty to illegally possessing a shotgun.

Appearing with him was Robert Fussey (20) of Priory Farm, East Halton, who
pleaded guilty to possessing a firearm with intent to cause violence, illegally
possessing a shotgun, stealing a car and driving while disqualified.

Stephen Lowne, prosecuting, said the complainant Ricky Lee had known Thiim for
around ten years, but their relationship had 'souredi around four years ago.

On the night of the shooting, Lee said he saw a man, who he identified as Thiim,
standing outside his South Killingholme house at 3.50am wearing a balaclava and
carrying a sawn-off shotgun.

Mr Lee had been in his bed with wife Karen and their two children were sleeping
in their bedrooms when they heard a loud 'crackingi sound which woke them up.

Mrs Lee was the first to the window, and when she saw Thiim remarked 'Oh God,
he's back!i She told the court the couple had been harrassed by Thiim for years,
and said she had been the victim of malicious phone calls from him.

When Mr Lee followed his wife to the window to investigate, Thiim fired the two
shots.

Fussey is alleged to have driven a stolen Fiesta to and from the scene.

A third man, Mark Blades, was a passenger in the car and gave evidence against
the pair as they initially pleaded not guilty to all charges, but changed their
pleas on the third day of the trial.

Mr Blades told the court he had drinking with the pair on the night of the
shooting and rode with them in the car which he said Fussey had started with a
screwdriver.

He said that, at the end of the night, they drove to South Killingholme, and he
was 'shockedi to see Thiim produce a shotgun on the journey there, which he
fired out the car window.

When they arrived at Mr Lee's house he said Thiim disappeared for a few minutes,
during which time two gunshots were heard.

Mr Lee took to the witness stand and, in cross-examination from Rodney Ferm,
defending Thiim, admitted he had served a 23-month prison sentence, from which
he was released this year, for assaulting Thiim following on from years of
feuding.

The case was adjourned until September for the preparation of pre-sentence
reports.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1999 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              351 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            August 15, 1999, Sunday

TERROR ATTACK ON PRINCE CHARLES

BYLINE: Paul Field

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 529 words


PRINCE Charles faced death when he was attacked by harpoon-gun wielding
terrorists this week, the Sunday People can reveal.

His life was in danger - but he survived because of his cool courage during the
30-minute attack while he was swimming alone in an isolated cove.

The Queen is furious about the deadly security breach in Cyprus during his
summer holiday cruise - and Prime Minister Tony Blair has been informed.

lated cove in Cyprus on Thursday.(

A high-powered launch carrying a dozen fanatic supporters of the anti- british
cypriot group EOKA group suddenly roared into the tiny bay and trapped the
Prince between the sea and the safety of the yacht he is travelling on.

They threatened the shocked prince with their weapons as they screamed insults
and abuse threatening to "teach you a lesson" for Brtain's involvement in
Cyprus.

The helpless prince had to simply tread water as they hurled abuse at him and
threatrened him with harpoon guns. There was no way he couild escape back to the
shore or his yacht.

Neither of his sons Prince William or Prince Harry, or his mistress Camilla
Parker-Bowles knew of the incident until it was all over and none were in danger
themselves.

One of the prince's staff told the Sunday People: "It was a terrifying and
enormously dangerous incident.

"The prince - just as when he was attacked in Australia by a fanatic several
years ago - was completely cool.

"But there's no doubt his life was in terrible danger. He kept very cool and
simply treaded water and tried to calm things down.

"He was able to raise the alarm through certain security devices that are always
with him.."

Within minutes armed royal detecitves dived on a high-powered speed boat roared
from the prince's yacht to place themselves between their royal charge and the
gang.,

There then became a highly tense armed standoff which lasted 30 minutes before
the cypriot extremists suddenly roared away leaving the royal party shaken but
safe.

One of Charles's royal courtiers said: "There was no shoot out, but there could
easily have been.

"The detectives, who were all armed themselves, were threatened with cocked
harpoon guns by the attackers.

"It could easily have ended in massive bloodshed."

The hero of the hour was royal detective Peter Brown who calmed down the
cypriots and persuaded them to leave.

"He put his own life in danger by positioning himself between the cypriots and
the prince. There were long moments when they thought it would turn to bloodshed
and he would get the first harpoon straight through his stomach.

"Howqever, he kept calming the cypriots and persuading them tio leave. He told
them there cause was nothing to do with the prince personally and pleasded with
them to think of his children on the yacht.

"He was brilliant - afterwards the prince coukld not thank him enough."

Throughout the tense exchanges, however, the prince was forced by his own
personal detective, Supt Colin Trimmings, to stay in the sea treading water
because it put him at less risk.

"He was held by Trimmings by the side of the royal laucnh away fro,m the
cypriots boat".

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              352 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 16, 1999, Monday

REFUGEE RAZOR GANG SLASHED US TO PIECES;
 KIDS KNIFED IN TERROR ATTACK AT FUNFAIR

BYLINE: Alexandra Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 505 words


By ALEXANDRA WILLIAMS

TERRIFIED youngsters told last night how refugee gangs slashed them with knives
and razors at a funfair.

The blood-soaked victims ran screaming for help as scores of Balkan men launched
a series of unprovoked attacks.

A girl of 13 needed 48 stitches to her injuries. A 15-year-old boy was wounded
across the face with a craft knife. On his back were two deep gashes, measuring
18in and 13in.

One victim said: "There was blood pumping out of me. I ran for my life with six
of them chasing me."

Another boy was riding a bumper car at the fair in Dover, Kent, when the yobs
slashed his neck, narrowly missing his jugular vein.

Tensions have been building up in the town for some time between locals and
refugees.

The youngsters saw the men talking on mobile phones as they pinpointed their
targets.

Last night the 50-year-old mother of one victim said: "They went to the funfair
to enjoy the rides but were almost killed.

"We are scared for our lives and our children are too frightened to live here
now.

"It was like a gangster movie. These people appeared from nowhere with knives.
Something must be done. We are not racists. We need more police to control the
situation before someone is killed."

Violence first flared on Friday night when six people were hurt. On Saturday
there were more clashes between immigrants and residents. Five local youths were
taken to hospital.

A 17-year-old engineer needed 29 stitches when he was knifed twice in the back.

He said: "Someone poked me and said, 'Problem? Problem?'. I just shook my head
and told him it wasn't me with the problem.

"Suddenly I felt a stinging sensation across my back. There was blood
everywhere. We didn't retaliate, we were too shocked."

Horrified onlookers said the attackers, aged between 20 and 30, "butchered" the
youngsters.

A 15-year-old boy needed too many stitches to count for his injuries. He was
standing by the bumper cars waiting for a friend when he was hit in the head.

He said: "I was punched two or three times. I knew I had to get away. Then I
felt something across my face. The man knifed me from under my ear to the middle
of my cheek and I needed 20 stitches.

"He tore my shirt and I realised I had been knifed again. I have too many
stitches on my back to count them.

"I tried to run away. I looked up and saw my friend in the bumper car being
knifed. It was terrifying and happened in a flash."

The father of another victim said: "At first we got on with the refugees. But
the atmosphere in Dover has become threatening. The main road, dubbed Slovak
Alley, is now a no-go area for locals.

"What has happened this weekend seems unreal. It is terrifying.

"I blame the Government. These refugees should be dispersed. One town cannot
cope with them all."

More than 5,000 asylum seekers are thought to be living in the area with more
arriving each week.

Three men were arrested on Saturday over the incident. They were released on
police bail.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICIOUS: This boy's back was slashed by gang; WOUNDED: The Balkan
immigrants left this boy with a deep gash Pictures: ARNOLD SLATER; FUNFAIR:;
Scene of the attack

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              353 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      August 21, 1999, Saturday Edition 1

Couple tell of pirate terror raid - Gun gang attack ship

BYLINE:  By Kevin Donald And Gavin Foster

SECTION: REGIONAL NEWS, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 440 words


   A North couple told yesterday how they were robbed and beaten by modern day
pirates who boarded their ship in the dead of night.

The gang drew alongside the cargo ship Emilia Theresa in a speedboat as it
sailed into the Port of Rio Grande, off the coast of Brazil.

Merchant Navy chief engineer Jonathan Ireland and his wife Ulrike, a guest on
the ship, were awoken when the door of their cabin was kicked in by a masked
robber with a sawn-off shotgun.

The couple were bound and beaten by the Brazilian gang before being locked in a
cabin.

Ten days on Mrs Ireland is still suffering facial injuries, internal bleeding
and nursing smashed ribs.

The 11-strong crew of the 6,000 tonne cargo vessel were overpowered in minutes
by the well-organised gang.

Mr Ireland, 50, of South Shields, said: "I heard my wife screaming and someone
was banging on the door.

It burst open and there was a masked man standing there with a sawn-off
shotgun."

Six men wearing black balaclavas and white surgical gloves rushed into the room
holding guns to the heads of the captain and a crewman.

They grabbed Mr Ireland and threw him against the wall, pushing the shotgun
against the back of his neck.

Mr Ireland said: "There was a man standing in the doorway shouting 'money!
money! money!'. I put my hand in my pocket and threw what I had on to the floor,
which turned out to be English notes. He just looked down at it and said: 'no,
no, no'."

The men, who were all carrying knives, forced the captain to open his safe and
stole $ 23,000 before returning to the cabin.

This time they turned their attention to Mrs Ireland and the jewellery she was
wearing.

She said: "Someone threw me across the room on to a table. I hit it so hard that
the impact broke my ribs and I smashed my face against it.

"They pulled me to my feet and two of them put guns to each of my temples, one
standing on either side of me. Another unclasped the necklace I was wearing and
yet another started trying to pull the rings from my fingers.

"My hands were swollen and they couldn't get them off. They were getting angry
and frustrated and at one point appeared to be about to cut my hands off with
their knives.

"I still can't believe what has happened to us."

After the gang had finished rifling the boat, Mrs and Mrs Ireland, the captain
and the crewman were locked in a cabin. The gang escaped in their speedboat.

Andy Linington, spokesman for the shipping officers union Numast, warned that
piracy is on the increase, particularly in Brazil and the Far-East.

"In many cases the pirates are armed with AK47s," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              354 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                August 25, 1999

TERROR ATTACK ON FOUR NURSES;
Father goes berserk in casualty ward as child asked to wait

BYLINE: Jo Revill

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 635 words


FOUR NURSES were seriously injured - including one who suffered a broken arm and
another a severe bite wound - after a man went berserk in the casualty
department of a London hospital.

He lashed out, kicking and punching the nurses when he was told that his child,
who had already been given an initial examination by nurses for a minor ailment,
would have to wait for treatment.

The incident again raises the question of security for medical staff who are
still vulnerable despite pledges from the Government that more would be done to
protect them.

All four of the injured nurses are off work, traumatised by the attack at the
West Middlesex Hospital in Isleworth.

Only four weeks ago, their union representatives pleaded in vain with the
hospital managers to have a security guard permanently in the casualty
department, because patients were becoming increasingly abusive and threatening.

Royal College of Nursing representative at the hospital Sharon Bissessar, who is
also an A&E nurse there, said today: "Verbal and physical attacks on staff are a
daily occurrence. Our doors are open 24 hours a day and we are trying to do our
job but staff are living in fear. It can only be a matter of time before someone
is killed."

Unison rep Lynne McEvoy said of the attack, which happened around midnight on
Monday: "The man just went berserk. A female nurse, whom he had already sworn
at, was punched and he began kicking her so she fell to the floor. She thought
he had a knife, and that she was going to die.

"A male nurse came to her aid, and he was kicked and punched in the stomach.
Another male nurse grappled with the man, who was on top of the female nurse.
The healthcare assistant came to help, and he was bitten very badly. They called
security guards, who took around five minutes to arrive.

The guards said they were not allowed to restrain people, and had to wait for
the police to arrive."

Sister in charge Theresa Ross, a nurse for 16 years, was the first to be
attacked. "I have been assaulted twice in casualty before, but this time I was
really frightened," she said. "This is just too high a price to pay for doing
our job. I'm so scared, I don't know how I can go back in there again."

Mrs McEvoy said: "Frank Dobson makes all these soundbites about protecting
nurses, but that's no use because the hospital doesn't have the money to provide
more security. Someone will be killed if this carries on.

"They nurses were all extremely traumatised and had to be treated in their own
department. There is security at the hospital but because the guards have to
patrol the whole site we don't have 24-hour protection at A&E."

Geoff Martin, of campaign group London Health Emergency, said: "Night after
night, nurses and healthcare assistants in London are in the front line, dealing
with abusive patients on their own. The Government must now start taking
violence in casualty departments seriously before there is a fatality.

"It will only change when money is actually put into providing security guards
and when managers start listening to their staff who come under threat. Why
should they risk their lives in this way? It's a disgusting way to treat your
staff."

A spokesman for the hospital said today: "This is an appalling incident, which
we are investigating. The feedback we have had from the A&E department in the
past is that it is not a good idea to have a uniformed security guard
permanently on duty there.

"Perhaps that opinion will change in the light of this incident. We are going to
increase security across the site but there is a limit to what we can afford to
spend over a site as big as this."

A 30-year-old man has been charged by police on two counts of actual bodily harm
and two counts of common assault.


LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              355 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           August 26, 1999, Thursday

RESIDENTS RELIVE CAR ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Karen Quinn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 323 words


RESIDENTS are living in fear after a gang of car thieves went on the rampage.

Afraid to leave their homes, the victims watched on helplessly as between eight
and 10 youths made their way along Great Northern Street, off Belfast's Lisburn
Road, on Monday night attacking parked cars.

One woman, who did not wish to be identified for fear of a further attack, said
she watched in horror as the thugs swarmed around the vehicles.

"I woke around 11 o'clock to the sound of people shouting outside," she said.

"I went to the bedroom window and saw two small groups of men standing around
the cars parked behind mine.

"They were pulling the door handles on both sides of the vehicles desperately
trying to force their way in".

Afraid of attracting the thieves attention the woman called the Lisburn Road RUC
station only a few 100 yards away and was told the incident had already been
reported.

However, she claims police failed to respond to the call.

"I was afraid to make a sound in case they attacked my home," she added.

"But as I made my way back to the window the resident next door shouted out and
scared the men off."

The woman described how the thieves walked casually down the street before
running in the direction of Fane Street.

Another resident, who watched the men punching the sides of cars, said the
incident had left many locals terrified.

"These youths are not known in the area and they are not teenagers either," he
said.

An RUC spokesman hit back at the claims, saying that a patrol attended the area
within minutes.

He confirmed that shortly after 11pm police received a report of eight youths
walking along Great Northern Street trying to break into cars.

He said the area was attended, the complainant spoken to and no damage noted.

However, he added, that as the street covers a considerable area it was not
always possible for police to stop the culprits.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              356 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           August 26, 1999, Thursday

TERROR IN CASUALTY;
 CRAZED DAD ATTACKS 4 NURSES AFTER BEING TOLD HE MUST WAIT

BYLINE: David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 483 words


FOUR nurses were hurt when a man launched a terrifying attack in a hospital
casualty after being told his child would have to wait for treatment for a minor
ailment.

The man punched casualty Sister Theresa Ross, 39, to the ground and set on three
other staff, including her nurse husband Ravinder Singh, when they leaped to her
defence.

A male nurse finished up with a broken arm and a health assistant had a severe
bite wound after the man went berserk.

All four are still off work and recovering from their injuries following the
drama on Monday night. Theresa said: "After this I am seriously considering
giving up nursing in London after 16 years. I am frightened and scared for my
life.

"I told the Royal College of Nursing steward last week that I was concerned
someone would end up being seriously assaulted and then this happens."

Theresa said it was the fourth time she has been attacked at the West Middlesex
hospital in Hounslow, west London, in four years.

She said: "We have nothing to protect us. There are signs up saying we will not
tolerate violence but you show that to someone who is drunk or high on drugs and
they just laugh.

"Things have not changed. We need to see real action - more security and more
guards."

Union leaders said the terror highlighted the constant violence staff are
subjected to - despite Government pledges to protect them.

Just four weeks ago officials pleaded in vain with hospital managers to have a
security guard in the department because of increasing threats and abuse by
patients.

Royal College of Nursing representative Sharon Bissessar, who also works in the
A&E department, said: "Verbal and physical attacks on staff are a daily
occurrence.

"Our doors are open 24 hours a day and we are trying to do our job but staff are
living in fear. It can only be a matter of time before someone is killed."

A hospital spokesman said: "We are taking this incident very seriously.

"Clearly any assault on staff is totally unacceptable and we support the police
in pressing charges."

The hospital had already begun a review of security arrangements before the
incident, he added.

"We do have security guards but obviously they cannot be everywhere at the same
time. We are looking to increase the number of guards."

Health Secretary Frank Dobson has pledged to cut violent incidents in the NHS by
30 per cent by 2003.

Health Minister John Denham said: "I have called for an urgent report into this
appalling, unacceptable incident.

"It reinforces our determination to tackle violence against NHS staff through
investing in better A&E facilities, setting tough targets for hospital managers
and pressing for firm action by the police and courts."

A 30-YEAR-OLD man is due in Feltham magistrates' court on September 27 on two
charges of causing actual bodily harm and two of common assault.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTIMS OF VIOLENCE: Health assistant Jamie Frayne and sister; Theresa
Ross were both hurt in the attack at West Middlesex hospital casualty department

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              357 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                August 27, 1999

I thought I was going to die
 Victim tells of attack terror

SECTION: Crime: Assault, Pg.2

LENGTH: 297 words


SARAH-Jane Massie today relived the moment when a knife was plunged into her
heart almost claiming her life.

The 16-year-old teenager, had been dating Ezuma for a year, when he turned on
her in a fit of rage stabbing her five times.

He had been living with Sarah Jane at her sister's flat at 625 Clifton Road.

On April 17, the teenage couple had a row and when Sarah Jane told him their
relationship was finished and ordered him out of the flat, Ezuma grabbed a
kitchen knife.

Speaking from her home in Northfield she said: "I told him it was over between
us and I thought he was going to leave because he had packed his bags.

"All of a sudden he locked the front door and came into the bedroom with a knife
and started stabbing me.

"I was really scared. After he knifed me I blacked out for a few seconds and
then I remember being dragged into the living room. It all happened so fast.

"I was screaming and screaming for help and the woman upstairs must have heard
me and called for the ambulance.

"When I was in the hospital . He meant to kill me. I just hate him."

His knife had penetrated her heart's right ventricle, causing bleeding in her
chest.

She was also stabbed three times in the back and once on her elbow. Sarah Jane
had emergency heart surgery then spent two days in the intensive care unit and a
further week in a hospital ward.

But Sarah Jane was livid when she realised Ezuma had pleaded guilty to a reduced
charge.

She said: "I just couldn't believe it. I am convinced he meant to kill me.

"He should have been charged with attempted murder."

Since the attack Sarah has had to give up her job as a fish packer at a fish
factory near Torry.

She said: "I am finding it hard to get a job. It is painful when I lift anything
which is heavy."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1999 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              358 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                August 30, 1999

Drive of terror ends in county;
 MOTORISTS ATTACKED: crucifix saves woman

BYLINE: Harriet Arkell

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 532 words


A MAN was due in court in Chippenham today after no fewer than four motorists
were threatened in incidents across three counties.

What police describe as a "horrendous catalogue" of offences began in the Forest
of Dean in Gloucestershire and ended on the M4 in Wiltshire.

In between, the Leigh Delamere service area near Chippenham became caught up in
the drama, with a motorcyclist being saved from serious injury by a crucifix she
was wearing around her neck.

The trail of terror began at 3.30pm on Friday, when a Volvo 340 GL was stolen
from Coleford.

The stolen car was driven into Wales where, on the forecourt of the Tesco garage
in Chepstow, the driver tried to steal a VW Golf from its owner.

The owner of the Golf was threatened with a knife but refused to hand it over.

Next, a man who was sitting in a Vauxhall Cavalier waiting opposite the town's
railway station for his wife to come off a train, was also threatened with what
is described as a Stanley knife.

Again, though, the motorist refused to hand over the keys.

The offender then climbed into the car through an open window, slashing at the
terrified Cavalier owner with the knife.

Dc Peter Mathias, of Chippenham CID, said: "The car owner put his hands up to
protect his face from the knife and received two cuts to his left hand. The
third cut went right through his watch strap."

But, despite the victim's fear, he refused to hand over the keys.

Eventually, the assailant gave up and returned to the Volvo.

It was then driven along the M4 into Wiltshire, and to the car park of the Leigh
Delamere services.

The Volvo was abandoned at the car park and a woman sitting astride a motorcycle
opposite the main entrance to the services was attacked.

She was threatened with a screwdriver but refused to hand over the bike.

The man then stabbed at her with the screwdriver, tearing a hole in her jumper.

Dc Mathias said: "Fortunately for her she was wearing a large crucifix round her
neck. She received at least three slashes to her neck, but the impact of all of
these was taken by the cross."

Eventually the terrified woman, still being

Continued on page 3

From page 3

threatened with the screwdriver, got off the bike, but the machine's immobliser
prevented it from moving.

The final victim was a man sitting in a Peugeot 306 Cabriolet in the car park.

He was forced at knifepoint out of the yellow convertible, which was driven out
of the services and back on to the motorway.

Soon afterwards police arrested a man just outside Swindon.

DC Mathias said: "This case involves a number of very, very serious matters. It
is very unusual to get this number of incidents of this serious nature in such a
short space of time.

"The first car was taken in Coleford at 3.30pm, and the arrest took place at
5.20pm, so everything happened in less than two hours."

A 19-year-old man from Coleford was due to appear before North Wiltshire
magistrates in Chippenham this morning, charged with several offences including
causing grievous bodily harm, attempted GBH, stealing, robbery and attempted
robbery.

DC Mathias said: "This really is a horrendous catalogue."


LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              359 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 2, 1999, Thursday

BBC MEN COME UNDER ATTACK IN TERROR ZONE

BYLINE: Callum Frew

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 227 words


BRITISH journalists told last night how they feared for their lives after being
caught up in violence sweeping East Timor.

BBC reporter Jonathan Head was beaten by one of the militia men wreaking havoc
on the streets.

Another BBC correspondent Matt Frei had a gun fired at him before being chased
by a second man with a machete.

Pro-Indonesian terror gangs have been on the rampage in the East Timor capital
Dili since this week's independence referendum.

Yesterday footage shot by BBC man Head's camera team showed him trying to dodge
the militia men outside a UN compound.

He fell and was kicked in the head by one of the thugs, who then swung his rifle
butt at his head twice.

Yards away an East Timorese man was hacked to death with machetes - a scene
considered too harrowing to show on news programmes.

Head said there was automatic fire when they arrived outside the compound.

He said: "We ran as fast as we could but they were coming at us from all
directions.

"I think I am quite lucky to be alive. It was a very chaotic situation."

The third BBC correspondent in East Timor is Simon Ingrams.

A BBC News spokesman said: "They have all been threatened. This violence was
very sudden with no real warnings.

"We are keeping the situation under review, and if it starts to look as if it is
just too dangerous, they will come out."

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1999 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              360 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 2, 1999

Girl in terror attack at show

BYLINE: Beverley Hawes

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 220 words




HEALTH chiefs have launched an investigation after a care in the community
patient was alleged to have grabbed a terrified girl by the hair and lifted her
off of the ground.

Lisa Selley, 14, screamed as handfuls of hair were ripped out during the
incident at Berkeley Show in Gloucestershire.

It took four men to finally overpower the man.

Yesterday Lisa's family said they were stunned to find that the man involved,
aged 44 and described as "learning disabled" was supposed to be in the care of a
woman carer.

Lisa, of Ridgemount Close, Brockworth, Glouc-ester, had gone to the show with
relatives.

She said: "I suddenly felt these hands on my head. Someone had grabbed me by
both hands on either side of my head - the grip was so hard.

"His knuckles were pressing right into my skull and it hurt me so much. I
screamed as loud as I could.

"At first I thought it was someone I knew messing about as a joke.

"When he let go and I got up off the ground I saw his facing looking down at me
and I can't get it out of my mind. I keep seeing it."

The man involved lives in a house owned by Severn NHS Trust at Minchin- hampton,
near Stroud. Police and the trust are investigating.

Trust spokesman Dave Dungworth said: "We want to make sure that such an incident
does not happen again."


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              361 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 2, 1999

Woman's terror in knife attack;
 YOUNG MOTHER SLASHED IN FACE AND ARM

BYLINE: Jeff Wells

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 256 words




A COURT has heard how a terrified young mother was slashed in the arm, face and
head by another woman during a knife attack in Weymouth.

Prosecuting at Dorchester Crown court, Michael Butt said Sonia Butler had been
attacked with a craft knife in front of her young son. Bridget Malkin of
Heathland Close, Crossways, Weymouth, denies wounding Miss Butler with intent to
do her grievous bodily harm.

The jury heard how Miss Butler, who had previously lived with Malkin's husband
Brett, aged 36, needed 15 stitches for her injuries.

Local residents rushed to Miss Butler's aid and Malkin had tried to stem the
flow of blood.

But it was alleged that Mr Malkin, who had urged his wife on with shouts of, "Do
it now, go on, slash her face and neck, go for the throat," ran off.

Mr Butt said Malkin had aided and abetted his wife to commit this "dreadful"
offence in a dispute over access to their young son.

Miss Butler told the court Malkin had left his wife to live with her. Their son
was born in 1997. After she and Malkin split up last November he resumed his
relationship with his wife.

On the afternoon of the alleged attack she had been pushing the toddler in his
buggy as she walked towards her flat in Franklin Road with a friend.

She said Malkin had blocked her way and lunged at her, putting her hands around
her neck and saying: 'I have a got a knife.'

"The next thing I knew I had blood coming down my face and Brett was shouting
'Get her face, get her throat'.''

The trial continues.


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              362 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               September 3, 1999

OAPs 'are living in terror of attacks';
 Thugs blamed for vandalism at home

BYLINE: By Una Bradley

LENGTH: 268 words


POLICE are to visit pensioners in a residential home after allegations that they
are being terrorised by local thugs, it emerged today.

Windows have been smashed at Palmerston Guest House in east Belfast and missiles
have regularly been thrown into the grounds, according to staff.

Police confirmed they had been called out to the Sydenham home more than once
and that they are paying extra attention to the area.

They also said a community officer was to visit the pensioners to listen to
their grievances.

A senior care worker at the home, which is run by the Newtonabbey Methodist
Mission, said the vandalism intensifed around the time of this year's Drumcree
stand-off.

Said Beverly Jackson: "We had garden furniture stolen in July to be used for
fires. Since then, there has been little let-up.

"The residents are very frightened. One woman in her eighties is distressed and
finding it hard to sleep.

"We don't know who the hooligans are, but we presume they're from the Sydenham
area. They just run away when they see the police coming."

Around 33 pensioners live in the home, with a further 22 in sheltered
accommodation in the grounds.

Local councillor Jim Rodgers recently went to check out the situation for
himself.

"I am appalled by this - the pensioners are being terrorised. Enough is enough.

"I confronted some of these kids and was subjected to abuse myself. I would
really ask those involved to think about what they are doing.

"This is a community problem also and I appeal to parents to find out where
their sons are going late at night."


LOAD-DATE: September 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              363 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 5, 1999, Sunday

KILLER BATS IN ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 50 words


THREE towns are on alert after attacks by killer bats.

The blood-sucking creatures have pounced 15 times - and one boy died after being
infected by rabies.

Weather conditions have been blamed for the attacks in Mexico.

Now the terrified people have set up bat-spotting patrols.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              364 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 6, 1999

Boy, 12, in two knife attacks;
 STREET TERROR: gardener and woman threatened

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 379 words


A KNIFE-wielding boy who may have been as young as 12 mugged a woman and tried
to rob a man in Bath last night.

In the first incident the boy demanded money from a gardener as he tended his
front garden in Southdown Road at around 6.30pm.

Despite being threatened with a knife, the 35-year-old man refused to hand over
his wallet and hurled the rake he was using at the boy, who fled empty -handed.

The man said today: "I was gardening on the path adjacent to my property when
this chap asked me for the time.

"I told him and then I saw he was holding a knife. He said 'give me your wallet
or I will stab you'.

"I picked up my rake and kept it between us and told him he was not having my
wallet and he ran off."

About half an hour later a 49-year-old woman was walking towards the junction of
Sladebrook Road and Southdown Road when she became aware of someone close behind
her.

She then heard a voice demanding that she hand over her handbag. As she turned
around she was confronted by the young boy wielding a sheath knife and repeating
his demands for money.

Petrified for her safety, the woman handed over her white leather handbag and
the boy ran off.

The woman said: "As I was walking up the road I saw this lad walking towards me.
I felt him staring as me and then he walked down a little lane and I walked on
past.

"As I got to the end of Sladebrook Road I heard footsteps behind me and heard
someone say 'Give me your bag'.

"I looked down and he had this knife pointing. I was terrified and I wasn't
going to take any chances so I gave him the bag and he ran off."

Police say the two descriptions given by the victims were virtually identical.

The youngster in the first attack was described as white, aged between 12 and
15, with fair, ginger hair, around 5ft 6ins tall, wearing a peaked cap, a long
-sleeved black top with red stripes and black tracksuit trousers, with a white
stripe down the side.

The second victim thought the boy may have been a little older and this time he
was not wearing a cap.

Police are anxious to speak to anyone who was in the area of the incidents
yesterday evening.

Anyone with information is asked to ring the police on Bath 444343 or the
confidential Crimestoppers number 0800 555111.


LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              365 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               September 8, 1999

Dissidents had year of blood and terror;
 Scores of attacks before Omagh

BYLINE: By John Hicks

LENGTH: 317 words


THE self-styled Real IRA started their short but bloody terror campaign almost
exactly a year ago.

Before it ended with the Omagh massacre, the deadly breakaway Republican group
had carried out a string of bombings, attempted bombings and firebomb attacks.

Its first attack was a massive van bomb in Markethill in Co Armagh, planted
outside the local RUC station on September 16, 1997 .

There was a short warning and the explosion caused widespread damage, but no
-one was hurt.

On January 6, this year the RIRA planted a car bomb in Banbridge town centre,
but the device was defused.

The following month on February 20 a large car bomb exploded outside the RUC
station in Moira.

There was widespread damage and a number of civilians were injured but not
seriously.

Three days later a 1,000lb car bomb devastated the centre of Portadown, causing
extensive damage.

On March 10, the RIRA carried out an abortive mortar attack on the RUC station
at Armagh.

On June 24, a car bomb exploded in Newtownhamilton on the day before the
Assembly elections.

The bomb was made by the RIRA but claimed by the INLA.

The next month the RIRA carried out a mortar bomb attack on Newry police
station. There was little damage but a number of civilians narrowly escaped
injury.

A bomb planted in the town at the same time was defused.

In Portadown, the dissident group claimed responsibilty for a number of
incendiary attacks on stores in the town on July 28.

The group came close to a massacre in Banbridge on August 2, when the security
forces were given only a few minutes warning of a 500lb car bomb in the town
centre.

More then 30 people were injured and millions of pounds worth of damage was
caused to property.

Throughout the 12 months of terror, it is known that the security forces, north
and south of the border, thwarted up to 30 planned attacks.


LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              366 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 8, 1999

ANNA FORD FLEES ATTACKER;
 Star's terror as intruder goes on studio rampage

BYLINE: Alex Richardson

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 443 words



A CRAZED intruder went on the rampage at the BBC's television newsroom
yesterday.

Terrified workers, including presenter Anna Ford, ran for cover as the man burst
in after hurling a coffee table through a plate-glass window.

The madman shouted death threats as he smashed TVs and computers before finally
being overpowered by staff.

Last night the apparent ease with which the intruder entered the building
stunned BBC chiefs who had introduced tough new security measures following the
murder of Crimewatch star Jill Dando.

BBC News deputy chief executive Richard Ayre said: ''This was a serious breach
of security that has left many staff shocked. We are launching an immediate
investigation of our security procedures.''

The drama began at 10.30am at the BBC's newsroom in the new Stage 6 area at
White City, West London.

It is thought the man entered the building by vaulting one of the turnstile
barriers in the reception area.

One of the first BBC staff to tackle him said afterwards: ''I was in a meeting
downstairs when I heard this thumping noise.

''I saw this guy throwing a coffee table at the viewing gallery windows. He did
this a couple of times before the glass broke and he climbed through the window
and into the newsroom.''

The 38-year-old location engineer added: ''He appeared to be very, very angry.
He was shouting, I didn't catch all of what he was shouting, but I heard
something about 'I'll come back and get you'.

''Basically he was confronting people, asking people to square up to him.

''Three of us jumped on him and managed to get him on to the ground, then some
of the security staff arrived and helped us restrain him.

''He was very fit and very athletic, and it took a lot to restrain him.

''It was a very difficult experience, and not something I would like to do
again.

"The police arrived within five minutes and took him away.''

No one was injured in the incident, but many of the 100 people present at the
time were left shaken by the experience.

Another witness said: ''He climbed through the glass and started throwing stuff
around, PCs and TVs, and threatening to kill us.

''It was quite frightening. He was on the rampage and he was angry.''

Miss Ford, who was on duty reading news summaries when the intruder burst in,
was quickly pulled away by a producer, according to witnesses.

The presenter later read a short report on the incident on the BBC's One o'Clock
News.

A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said a 20-year-old unemployed man from Surrey had
been arrested on suspicion of burglary. He was in custody at Hammersmith police
station, the spokeswoman said.


LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              367 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 10, 1999, Friday

IT'S CONE-MAN THE BARBARIAN;
 TERROR ATTACK ON TRAFFIC FIRM BOSS

BYLINE: John Mceachran

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 378 words


TAXI owner William Wales was jailed for nine months yesterday for carrying out a
gangster-style attack on a traffic cone firm's Scottish boss.

Cumbria Traffic Management had carved out a slice of the multi-million pound
industry in Scotland after Brian Hosier became area manager in April.

But in June, Mr Hosier was hit by a terror attack when two thugs burst into his
office.They tied him up and beat his legs with an iron crowbar.

And they warned him: "Get out of road management because you are affecting my
business. Don't go to the police. We know where you and your family live."

The details of the bizarre raid emerged during the four-day trial of Wales, 39,
who denied assaulting and robbing Mr Hosier, 30, in June at the Cumbria Traffic
Management office in Whitburn, West Lothian.

The court heard there were only two other big companies involved in supplying
traffic cones and contraflow systems to local authorities and utilities for
motorways in central Scotland - Class One Traffic Management Ltd and Contraflow
Ltd.

Carlisle-based Cumbria, who expanded into Scotland earlier this year, had picked
up about 17 contracts worth up to pounds 250,000 each since April.

Mr Hosier told Linlithgow Sheriff Court of his terror as the two men trashed his
office. They tipped his computer on to the floor and yanking his phone from the
wall, as they tied his arms and legs with blue plastic rope.

He said: "I was very, very frightened. I feared for my life. I didn't know if I
was going to come out of this."

And he told how he picked out burly, unshaven Wales from an identification
parade organised by the police at Livingston a few days later.

During the raid, the second man, who was described as being thinner and younger
than Wales, tied up Mr Hosier and beat him across the legs with the crowbar six
times.

Mr Hosier suffered a large cut, bruising and swelling to his right knee and had
two bad cuts on his shins.

He has now changed jobs and moved his family to another area.

Wales, of Muirhead Grove, Baillieston, Lanarkshire, was cleared of robbing Mr
Hosier of his mobile phone and the keys to his Honda Accord car.

He lodged a special defence of alibi claiming he was in the Baillieston area, at
the time of the attack.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1999 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              368 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 10, 1999, Friday

CONE WAR THUG CAGED AFTER TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: John Mceachran

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 259 words


A THUG was jailed for nine months yesterday for his part a gangster-style attack
on a company boss.

The jury took just 30 minutes to convict taxi driver William Wales for his part
in the assault on a cone company manager.

Victim Brian Hosier worked for a Carlisle-based firm which had won contracts
worth pounds 250,000 since moving into Scotland earlier this year.

Two men burst his Cumbria Traffic Management office in Whitburn, West Lothian,
tied him up and beat his legs with an iron crowbar.

They told Mr Hosier: "Get out of road management because you are affecting my
business. Don't go to the police. We know where you and your family live. Don't
panic. This is just a warning."

Details of the raid emerged during the four-day trial of Wales, 39, who denied
assaulting and robbing Mr Hosier, 30, in June.

The victim told Linlithgow Sheriff Court of his terror as the two men tipped a
computer onto the floor, yanked the phone from the wall and tied his arms and
legs with blue plastic rope. He said: "I was very, very frightened. I feared for
my life."

Mr Hosier suffered a large cut, bruising and swelling to his right knee and had
two bad cuts on his shins from the crowbar attack.

Wales, of Baillieston, Glasgow, lodged a special defence of alibi claiming he
was 15 miles away at the time of the attack.

Sheriff Hector MacLean told him: "This was a particularly nasty assault.

"You were threatening this person you had no knowledge of. The least sentence
the court can impose is one of nine months."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              369 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 13, 1999

Dozens killed in Moscow blast;
 EXPLOSION: police treat it as terrorist attack

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 307 words


A SUSPECTED bomb destroyed an apartment building before dawn today in Moscow,
killing at least 23 people and leaving scores of other residents missing.

The blast wrecked an eight-storey block of flats in southern Moscow just four
days after 93 died when an explosion shattered a similar building four miles
away.

The Ministry of Emergency Situations said at least 23 people, including a child,
were killed in the explosion, which levelled the building. Four people were
injured, it said.

About 150 people lived in the building, although there were no reports on how
many people were home at the time of the blast, police said.

Vladimir Legofhin, a Ministry spokesman said there was little hope of finding
many survivors because the whole building collapsed. The explosion apparently
was at the centre of the building on the ground floor, he said.

"If anyone is left alive it would be an absolute wonder," he said while
directing rescue efforts.

More than 300 rescue workers with scores of ambulances and fire engines were at
the scene. The voices of survivors were heard initially in the rubble and rescue
workers with sniffer dogs were trying to find them.

Stunned local residents, many in their nightclothes, stood on the street staring
at the wreckage of the building. Smoke enveloped the remains of the building and
firefighters extinguished flames in the rubble.

"This huge explosion shook me out of my bed and there was a huge cloud of dust.
I understood immediately it was a bomb. I know there were many old people and
children living in the building," said Vladimir Kanshin, who lived in a
neighbouring building.

Police said they suspected a bomb caused the blast. The Federal Security
Service, the country's main intelligence agency, said it was treating the
explosion as a suspected terrorist attack.


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              370 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 13, 1999

Moscow is rocked by new blast;
 Second bomb explosion 'a terrorist attack'

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 181 words



A SUSPECTED bomb demolished a block of flats in Moscow today, leaving at least
28 people dead and scores of others missing.

It was the second major explosion in the Russian capital in four days.

Police said a bomb was the apparent cause of the blast at the eight-storey block
and they were treating it as a terrorist attack.

They appealed for help in finding a man they believe could be linked to today's
explosion and the blast last week, which also ripped through flats.

About 150 people lived in the building, although there were no reports on how
many people were home at the time of the blast, police said.

Vladimir Legofhin, a Ministry spokesman, said there was little hope of finding
many survivors because the whole building collapsed.

The explosion apparently was at the centre of the building on the ground floor,
he said.

"If anyone is left alive it would be an absolute wonder," he said while
directing rescue efforts at the scene.

More than 300 rescue workers were at the scene.

The voices of survivors were heard initially in the rubble.


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              371 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 14, 1999

A new kind of terror Random attacks shake Russian society

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 357 words


aFour bombs have exploded throughout Russia, many citizens are dead and the
tendency to run around like headless chickens, which has afflicted some of
Russia's senior figures, is becoming endemic. It is difficult enough for a
developed and sophisticated society to cope with terrorism, indeed most security
experts acknowledge that there can never be full security against murderers with
bombs and a grudge or a cause. But Russia's internal organisations hardly
qualify as developed these days. Crime is rife throughout the land and it is
organised on a basis and with funds which the forces of law cannot begin to
match. In a sense ordinary Russians, and certainly Muscovites, are used to crime
taking place around them, but that is often mafia crime and what is happening
now is very different and frighteningly random. The mayor of Moscow, the tough
and active Yuri Luzhkov, blamed the blasts on "Chechen bandits" yesterday. He
may be right, for the recent Chechen conflict and the continuing influence of
Chechens in helping Islamic militants, whose aim is to capture enough of
Dagestan to set up an Islamic state, has weakened the Russian state. Indeed, the
scale of the problem facing Russian security forces is only now becoming
apparent with the news that some of the militants come from other countries, and
one of the best known is now understood to be a Jordanian. Other rumours suggest
the trail may stretch back to the notorious Osma bin-Laden. All of this could
hardly come at a worse time for Russia. The economy remains fragile and
political life is as turbulent as ever. Russians, and foreign businessmen,
bankers, and politicians, will have to watch closely to see what effect the
security situation has on the general election which is due on December 19. The
most powerful combination at the moment consists of Mr Luzhkov and former prime
minister Yevgeny Primakov but that could change. More bomb outrages in Moscow
may cause problems for the mayor, but vigorous action on security might help his
political grouping. That is guesswork. What is certain is that Russian society
can do without further shocks.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              372 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                         September 15, 1999, Wednesday

MONITOR: RUSSIAN REACTION TO THE TWO SUSPECTED TERRORIST BOMBING ATTACKS IN
MOSCOW WHICH KILLED ALMOST 200 PEOPLE;
 ALL THE NEWS OF THE WORLD

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 541 words


WAR HAS already been declared in Russia. And many Muscovites in the suburbs are
forming their own special detachments which patrol their houses and gardens. The
entire population has made up its mind that it has no choice but commence the
insurance of its own security rather than rely on the state. This is because
they are more than certain that the government and authorities cannot guarantee
it. Many are welcoming any means necessary to stop the explosions. Now their
fear is gradually transforming into hatred. The slogan "For every Moscow house -
a village in Chechnya" is ever more popular and echoes in the streets.

Izvestiya

WE HAVE been calling them explosions, but what happened at Pechatniki and
Kashirka must surely lead us to the conclusion that Moscow was indeed attacked
by the Chechen army and, as a result, has lost more than 200 people, mostly old
people and children. There is no need for anyone to declare war because it has
already begun and it is currently taking place in Moscow, our capital. The state
is a machine to make citizens obey. In return the State ensures the security of
its citizens at any cost. Muscovites feel that tough measures are the only
adequate measures. Chechen terrorists are doing everything for Russia not to
have any future. Prime Minister Putin was declared by the Kremlin as a tough
official and successor to half-dead Yeltsin who can't be woken, not even by the
sounds of explosions in the capital. So now Putin has a chance, if not to win
the war, then at least to gain the initiative. Chechnya has to choose between
stopping its military action on Russian territory or extermination of the
Republic.

Moskovsky Komsomelets

RUSSIAN POLITICIANS may have come to their senses at last, but isn't it too
late? They were silent for two whole days following the first explosion. There
was another explosion this Monday morning - timed carefully as if to give our
leaders the chance to enjoy their weekend in peace. Then, at last, the President
appeared in public. Over the weekend it appeared that he had been at his country
house and the Prime Minister was out of the country - so who exactly was making
the political decisions and co-ordinating the work? At last the Duma leaders
decided to hold a special session with all the regional leaders. But the silence
of the regional leaders had already become indecent. Recent events have
eliminated the prospects for those politicians who fail to express themselves.
We need politicians who have political will and favour radical action. There are
rare moments in life when millions of people think the same. There is such a
moment now.

Neravisimaya Gazeta

IT IS most important that we extend our most sincere words of sympathy to those
who have suffered in the alleged bombings in Russia because of this tragedy, and
to all of Moscow. Dagestanis who know and who have suffered from similar
terrorist acts feel especially close and have a particular understanding of the
grief which must be felt at the moment by Muscovites. I am wholly confident that
the people who committed this barbaric crime will be found and will be
appropriately punished. (President Magomet-Ali Magomedov)

Dagestanskaya Pravda,

Dagestan

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              373 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 17, 1999

HEROES CATCH ARMED PUB GANG;
 Regulars stop teenage raiders after terror attack

BYLINE: DARREN BANE

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 338 words


CUSTOMERS were being hailed as heroes today after catching a gang of armed
youths who raided a village pub in North Somerset.

The three masked teenagers had terrorised staff and customers when they carried
out the raid at the Swan Inn at Rowberrow, near Winscombe, shortly before 10pm
last night.

The trio, all wearing black balaclavas, had been brandishing two imitation
firearms and a baseball bat.

They pointed the guns at the bar staff and ordered landlady Jan Tyldesley to
"hit the floor."

Mrs Tyldesley, aged 50, described the ordeal as a "very frightening experience."

There were around 30 regulars at the popular local pub when the robbers entered.

Mrs Tyldesley said: "The robbers came in and demanded money from the till. I
heard the ruckus and went into the bar.

"The main instigator was standing in front of the bar with a gun pointing at
barman Andrew Willis and Andrew was getting cash from the till.

"I was told to hit the floor, which I did, and I told Andy to just give him the
till."

Mrs Tyldesley later learned that the other gunman had held a weapon to the
stomach of her daughter Genna, aged 18.

Genna had just finished her shift at the pub and had been sitting at the bar.

Mrs Tyldesley said: "Everybody was absolutely frozen. It was all over in a
matter of seconds.

"As they left to go down the road to a car, I dragged a phone to the floor and
dialled 999.

"Three of our regulars got into a car and chased them down the road by the
church and caught them.

"They were brilliant and very brave, and so was Andy the barman, who was really
cool and was trying to stall them."

Mrs Tyldesley said the guns turned out to be imitation firearms but she said:
"They looked very real to me.

"It was all a bit of a nightmare."

She said the amount of money stolen was "not worth the hassle" but had all been
recovered.

Police in Bridgwater were today interviewing three 18-year-olds, from Horfield,
Southville and Filton in Bristol, in connection with the incident.



LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              374 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 17, 1999, Friday

BULLET LINK IN TERRORIST GUN ATTACKS;
 SAME HOME-MADE AMMO USED

BYLINE: Gemma Murray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 292 words


DETECTIVES have revealed a link between the killing of drugs baron Brendan
'Speedy' Fegan and a bid to murder IRA informer Martin McGartland.

A report in a local newspaper revealed tests showed the same batch of home -made
bullets were used in both attacks.

McGartland had previously pointed the finger at Republicans for the attempt on
his life.

Unionist politicians say the latest revelations prove the IRA is in breach of
its ceasefire.

Gregory Campbell, security spokesman for the DUP said: "This is further proof -
as if any were needed - that the Provisional IRA were involved in the shooting
of Martin Mc Gartland. It confirms what McGartland and many others said at the
time.

"This highlights the bankruptcy of Mo Mowlam's declaration that the IRA
ceasefire was intact."

Ulster Unionist security spokesman Ken Maginnis said: "This revelation bears out
all that the Ulster Unionists have been telling the Secretary of State about the
levels of terrorist activity being perpetrated by the Provisional IRA.

"It goes a long way to justify the Ulster Unionist party's decision to challenge
her assessment of the IRA ceasefire through the courts."

Brendan Fegan, 24, was gunned down by two hitmen in a Newry bar in May. Ex-spy
McGartland, 29, was shot and wounded one month later.

In both incidents the target was shot at point blank range and the gunmen made
their getaway in the same type of vehicle.

An RUC spokesman said: "We can confirm that we have been in contact with
Northumbria officers in relation to their inquiries."

A spokesman for the Northumbria Police said: "Officers have been in Northern
Ireland as a matter of routine in connection with the inquiry into the attack on
Mr Mc Gartland."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INFORMER: Martin McGartland; DEALER: Brendan 'Speedy' Fegan

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              375 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 17, 1999

Pressure on Yelstin as 17 die in latest terror bomb attack

SECTION: Pg.

LENGTH: 441 words


RUSSIA was reeling yesterday from another terrorist bomb attack that targeted
civilians, leaving at least 17 people dead and 184 others injured.

The latest outrage came as speculation mounted in Moscow that President Boris
Yeltsin's government faces a political crisis because of its apparent inability
to end the wave of attacks.

The bombing of an apartment block housing 440 people in Volgodonsk, close to
Russia's volatile Caucasus Mountains region, differed from the two similar
attacks in Moscow that have claimed 275 lives.

This time the bombers packed a lorry full of explosives and detonated it in
front of the building.

The Moscow blasts were caused by explosives concealed in the buildings and
therefore claimed more lives.

Yesterday's attack demolished the front of a nine storey building in the
hitherto quiet city not far from where Russian forces have been battling Islamic
militants.

A police station was badly damaged, as were about 20 other surrounding
buildings.

It was the fourth major explosion involving a large apartment building in Russia
during the past two weeks. All of the explosions happened overnight, when
residents were sleeping, apparently to inflict a maximum number of casualties.

The explosion left a 12ft crater in front of the building.

At least 17 people, including two children, were killed and 184 others were
wounded, with 69 admitted to hospital.

Volgodonsk has a population of about 250,000 people and is 500 miles south of
Moscow.

Firefighters fought a blaze that engulfed several floors of the building and
rescue workers and volunteers pulled away piles of rubble, hunting for
survivors. The building is in a drab residential area of rows of similar
apartment buildings.

Mr Yeltsin discussed the latest explosion at a meeting with Prime Minister
Vladimir Putin.

"We have the strength and resources to wipe out terrorism," said Mr Yeltsin.

Mr Yeltsin's fitness to govern Russia is again under question with the spate of
recent bombings and the unresolved conflict in Dagestan in southern Russia,
where Islamic rebels are battling Russian government forces.

Russian authorities suspect Islamic militants from southern Russia are
responsible for the attacks, but have not produced evidence linking the blasts
to any particular group.

The militants, who are fighting for a separate Islamic state, had threatened to
strike targets in Russia. But they have denied any involvement in the
explosions.

The latest blast came after massive security sweeps. Moscow police discovered a
"huge amount" of explosive powder hidden among sacks of sugar from a plant in
southern Russia.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              376 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 23, 1999, Thursday

GRAN WINS REPRIEVE FOR TERROR ATTACK DOG;
 FAMILY FURY

BYLINE: Martin Mcglown, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 410 words


A BIRMINGHAM grandmother whose Alsatian maimed her three-year-old grandson has
won her battle to save the dog from being destroyed.

The Crown Prosecution Service has opted to drop proceedings against owner
Margaret Wood following advice from animal behaviour experts.

Little Sam Wood needed more than 80 stitches and plastic surgery after being
mauled. He also suffered a severed lip, torn eye duct and may be scarred for
life.

Despite the wounds, Mrs Wood refused to have her pet, called Rosco, put down.

The attack took place six months ago at her home in Jockey Road, Sutton
Coldfield.

Rosco suddenly turned vicious as Sam was playing with him. The youngster, now
four, was left covered in blood and screaming for help.

Days later Mrs Wood was handed a court summons under the Dogs Act 1871.

The case was due to be heard earlier this week and magistrates could have
ordered the dog's death.

But at the eleventh hour Sam's mother Denise was informed that the matter had
been discontinued.

"I'm absolutely livid. The police told me that two independent animal experts
had concluded that Rosco was not dangerous," explained Denise, aged 34.

"Because of this they said there was no point taking the matter any further. Who
are these experts? I defy anyone to look at the photo of Sam's face and tell me
the dog is safe. Sam still has days when he suffers pain and irritation. I can't
believe his gran has put her dog before him."

Denise, a student nurse who had already split from her husband prior to the
attack, now refuses to speak to her in-laws.

Her solicitor has told Sam's grandparents that they can see him but only when
Rosco is not present.

A West Midlands Police spokesman said: "Following advice from independent canine
experts and after discussion with the Crown Prosecution Service, the application
to the courts has been withdrawn.

Declined

"In light of the experts' advice, it was decided that we would be unable to
prove the dog is dangerous."

Mrs Wood Snr declined to be interviewed today. But back in April, when a court
summons was issued, her 54-year-old husband Bob said: "We deeply regret what has
happened. Sam is our grandchild and we wouldn't wish this to happen to any
child."

Alsatians are not among the four breeds covered by the 1991 Dangerous Dogs Act.
Such breeds, like Pit Bull Terriers, are automatically banned unless the owner
carries a certificate of exemption.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SAVAGED: Grandson Sam Wood pictured after the attack NO COMMENT:;
Margaret Wood at her home in Sutton Coldfield

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              377 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           September 24, 1999, Friday

GRAVESIDE KNIFE THREAT TERROR;
 REWARD OFFER AFTER SEX ATTACK

BYLINE: Karen Hambridge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 236 words


A TEENAGER was forced into bushes at knifepoint and subjected to a terrifying
ordeal while tending a grave in Bedworth's main cemetery - just yards from the
police station.

The 18-year-old suffered cuts to her hands as she fought off her attacker and
struggled to escape.

Today police offered a pounds 500 reward for any information which may help net
the attacker.

The woman, who lives locally, had been visiting her grandfather's grave at the
Coventry Road cemetery around 2.30pm yesterday.

Near the Church Walk gates she was approached by a man who asked her the time.

But the man then pulled out a small- bladed knife, forced the startled girl into
nearby bushes, theatened her with the knife and attempted to kiss her.

But the teenager fought back and the attacker fled towards Coventry Road.

Police are appealing for any information which may help them trace the man. He
is described as aged between 16 to 20, about 5ft 8in, of a thin build, with
dark, very short hair.

He was wearing a long black coat with distinctive grey sleeves and a beige V on
the back. He also had on a bright orange shirt, black trousers and training
shoes.

A Crimestoppers reward of pounds 500 for information leading to the attacker's
capture and conviction has been posted. Anyone with details should ring the
confidential hotline number 0800 555111 or contact Det Sgt Rouse on 01203
641111.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              378 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                October 1, 1999

Terror as scissors girl attacks mum

BYLINE: By Ewan Cameron

SECTION: Crime: Assault, Pg.7

LENGTH: 283 words


A TEENAGE Aberdeen girl tried to hack through a door with a pair of scissors as
her terrified mother cowered on the other side, a court heard today.

Jade Gibson, 17, of 452 North Anderson Drive, attacked mum Irene Duncan in their
home on April 19, Aberdeen Sheriff Court was told.

Violence erupted after Ms Duncan started packing up clothes belonging to
Gibson's baby son, a cot death victim in 1997.

Depute fiscal Caroline Mackay said: "This immediately upset the accused and she
started shouting and swearing.

"She picked up a piece of wood and swung it at her mother."

To protect herself, Ms Duncan picked up a small stepladder and pushed it towards
her furious daughter.

Miss Mackay said when Ms Duncan bent down at one point, Gibson punched her in
the face and pulled her hair.

Gibson then went into the kitchen and removed a pair of scissors from a drawer.

Ms Duncan fled to another room and slammed the door shut.

"She put a mattress against the door.  Her daughter struck the door repeatedly
with the scissors."

Gibson then paced up and down outside the barricaded room "shouting and swearing
that she was going to kill her mother," said Miss Mackay.

"There was a large number of small holes in the door caused by the scissors,
including one that was big enough to fit a hand through."

In court today Gibson admitted assaulting her mother and breaking the peace at
their former Manor Walk home.

Her agent said Gibson - who uses methadone - had difficulty getting over her
son's death.

"She has returned to live with her mother and they are now on friendly terms,"
he added.

Sheriff Alexander Jessop deferred sentence for four months for Gibson to be of
good behaviour.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1999 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              379 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           October 2, 1999, Saturday

ROGUE TERROR GROUPS 'ARE POISED TO ATTACK'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 339 words


POLICE on both sides of the border have thwarted attacks from dissident
republicans who have recruited top bomb-makers, RUC Chief Constable Sir Ronnie
Flanagan revealed yesterday.

While the security forces had foiled attempts to kill RUC officers and British
soldiers, he warned renegade terrorists are poised to carry out a major atrocity
in the near future.

The Chief Constable said: "Dissident republican groups pose a serious and
growing threat, largely but not exclusively, along the border.

"We have a fear that they would have an imminent determination to carry out a
bombing attack on what they would see as a military target somewhere along the
border.

"It would have been their intention before this point to have engaged in a
number of attacks and I have no doubt the steps we have taken and steps taken by
our colleagues in the Garda Siochana have thwarted their intentions so far.

"That gives no room for complacency whatever. We believe they have the intention
and determination to attack police or military colleagues along the border but
other types of attack cannot be ruled out.

"They've shown themselves in the past totally willing to engage in commercial
attacks and totally willing to engage in attacks with complete and utter
disregard for human life."

Sir Ronnie said dissident republicans had nowhere like the numbers of the
Provisional IRA, which he said remained totally intact and unchanged in
structure.

But he admitted the number of expert weapons-makers among dissident ranks and
their coherent organisation, similar to the Provisionals, were extremely
worrying factors.

"We would have a concern that they have people with terrorist experience and
expertise and engineering capabilities to manufacture weapons and explosive
devices," he explained.

The dissidents are made up of a coalition of Continuity IRA, Real IRA, plus some
former INLA and IRA members, led by republicans opposed to the Good Friday
Agreement and well-known to both the RUC and the Garda.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              380 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 2, 1999

Victim relives stabbing ordeal;
 CRAZED KNIFEMAN CAGED FOR TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Lisa Pritchard

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 305 words


STABBING victim Sylvie Cartledge has been reliving the terrifying moment when a
crazed knifeman attacked her.

Jason Planter had a history of violence and was suffering from a mental illness
which made him a danger to himself and others, especially women.

But he was still allowed to roam the streets and carry out his horrifying
assault.

A judge has now ordered that he be kept indefinitely in a secure hospital after
he admitted wounding Mrs Cartledge.

After the hearing in Bristol Mrs Cartledge, aged 49, demanded to know why
Planter, of Jamaica Street, Bristol, had been free to attack.

She said: "If he had been treated or counselled in the past, maybe this wouldn't
have happened."

But she admitted that she had forgiven 26-year-old Planter, although she could
not bear to be in court to see him sentenced.

She said: "I have accepted that he is mentally ill. It wasn't his fault."

Mrs Cartledge is still living with the legacy of the attack that happened six
months ago. She regularly has nightmares and has chronic pain in her arms and
legs, together with the loss of feeling on the right side of her face, and now
she is too scared to walk far.

Mrs Cartledge's ordeal occurred as she was returning from a lunchtime stroll to
her workplace at Bristol Churches Housing Association, St Paul's.

As she approached Brunswick Square, she saw Planter walking towards her "like a
zombie".

"He came closer, pulled out a knife and stabbed me on the left side of my neck.
He seemed so calm and didn't say a word.

"I put my hand up and he started stabbing me on the other side. Then he just
walked off."

Mrs Cartledge was stabbed seven times and her lung was punctured. Her life was
saved by passer-by Rosalind Kerr, who stemmed the flow of blood before she was
taken to Bristol Royal Infirmary.


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              381 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                October 4, 1999

I KNEW I WAS GOING TO BE RAPED;
 Sex attack victim, 52, relives moment of terror

BYLINE: NIGEL DANDO

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 356 words


A WOMAN attacked at knifepoint by a serial rapist in Clifton spoke for the first
time today about her ordeal.

The 52-year-old woman, raped near a block of garages, told how she saw the man
emerging from the shadows but could not lock her car quickly enough to protect
herself.

The woman was the first of two known to have been raped by the same man. She
said: "I went to my car. It was dark. I saw a shadow on the wall. It was a man.

"I could see him lurking in the shadows and I knew I was going to be in trouble.

"I just knew what was going to happen so I went to my car as quickly and as
quietly as I could, opened the door, shut the door quietly and leaned around to
put the lock on.

"Unfortunately, I wasn't in time. He flung the car door open and said 'get out
of the car. I've got a knife.'

"Then he dragged me into the garage and punched me and knocked me to the ground
and then thumped me again.

"It was the brutality of the attack that really, really upset me. He then raped
me.

"I saw the flash of a knife and I put my hands up to try to defend myself and I
was cut quite badly. Obviously there was a lot of blood, which was quite
upsetting.

"Then he got up and left and I just felt totally devastated and traumatised by
the whole experience."

MUST PAR......The woman recalls what happened in an interview to be screened at
8pm tonight (Monday) as part of HTV's Crimestoppers Special.

She was attacked at 2.30am on Sunday August 1 off Portland Street.

The same man struck again early last Sunday, dragging a 31-year-old woman into
the garden of a house in Kensington Place and raping her.

DNA samples have been used to confirm that the same man was responsible for both
attacks.

He had shaved off his distinctive drooping moustache in the eight weeks between
the two rapes.

Police have urged women not to walk alone at night in the Clifton area until he
is caught.

Detectives believe that families in and around Clifton may hold the key to
tracing the man, who is dark haired and in his 20s.

They have appealed to anyone with suspicions about a relative to come forward.



LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              382 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       October 5, 1999, Tuesday Edition 1

Terrorist link to gun attack

BYLINE: by Andy Lloyd

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 155 words


   A terrorist suspect may have been in the North East at the time when IRA spy
Martin McGartland was shot.

Police are said to be investigating a Republican sympathiser suspected of
playing a part in at least two bomb attacks on British Army bases.

Blasted

Officers are thought to be probing claims he was seen in Sunderland just three
days after Mr McGartland was blasted seven times outside his Whitley Bay home on
June 17.

The man, who could be the Glaswegian captured on tape trying to buy a van used
in the assassination attempt, is suspected of involvement in the mortar attack
at the Osnabruck Barracks in Germany in June, 1996, and the bombing of the
Thiepval Barracks in Ulster, in October, 1996, which killed 43-year-old James
Bradwell, from Gateshead.

Mr McGartland, 29, who is being guarded in a secret location, said: "This would
fit exactly the way the IRA operates when they plan an attack."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              383 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           October 9, 1999, Saturday

BOY TORCHED AS HE PLAYED IN THE PARK;
 TERROR: MUM TELLS OF ATTACK

BYLINE: Ian Dow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 352 words


A LITTLE boy was turned into a human fireball after an 11-year-old set him
ablaze.

Six-year-old Danny Bell was playing with a pal in a park near his home when he
was torched by the cold-blooded youngster - who allegedly held his hands in the
flames and threatened to burn his friend.

Quick-thinking Danny rolled on the grass to put out the fire and walked home to
tell his shocked mum that "a big boy" had burnt him.

He was rushed to Dumfries Royal Infirmary but later transferred to Glasgow's
Yorkhill Children's Hospital with burns to his chest, hands, nose and mouth.

Brave Danny said last night: "I was playing with my friend and a boy came up and
set fire to my jumper with four lighters.

"He warned my friend that if he tried to help, he would burn him as well.

"It was very sore and the flames were all over my jumper and up my face. The
inside of my nose got burned.

"The boy held me down and forced my hands onto the flames. I was screaming.

"My friend told me to roll on the grass and I did. The flames went out but it
was really sore, then I walked home and told my mum. I asked her if I was going
to die and she was crying.

"She phoned for an ambulance and I was really scared. I don't know why the boy
did it but he was very bad."

Danny's mum Tracey, 31, of Lochside, Dumfries, said eight-year-old pal and
neighbour Mark McNaught, had saved her son's life by telling him to roll on the
grass.

She said: "What happened was absolutely terrible. It was thanks to Mark that
Danny is here today - if he had been alone, he could have burned to death."

Tracey's partner Stuart Robertson, 41, said: "When he came in screaming for his
mum I didn't realise there was anything wrong at first.

"Then I saw the black marks on his chest. He was carrying his jumper which was
black and had partly melted and there was a big hole in his t-shirt.

"He began to blister and I put a damp cloth over his chest. Then he asked me:
'Am I going to die?' "

Dumfries and Galloway Police said an 11-year-old boy had been charged and
reported to the Children's Panel over the alleged assault.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1999 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              384 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                October 11, 1999

Broken bottle terror attack
 Police in city-centre plea

BYLINE: By

SECTION: Crime: assault, Pg.2

LENGTH: 249 words


A YOUNG man was subjected to a terrifying bottle attack in Aberdeen.

The 20-year-old was threatened, punched and robbed in the early-morning raid.

He was approached by two men in George Street at the junction of Fraser Street
at around 12.15am on Sunday.

One threatened the man with a broken glass bottle then punched him in the face
and stole his wallet.

They then ran off towards Kittybrewster.

The men were in their early 30s, with dark hair. One was 5ft 10in, slim, and
wearing a white woollen hat, black fleece jacket and dark combat trousers. The
second was 5ft 6in, wearing a white Adidas tracksuit top and jeans.

A Grampian Police spokesman said: "Although the victim was not injured, this is
a particularly nasty attack.

"We are obviously very concerned when someone is prepared to threaten others
with any weapon.

"It may not have been used on this occasion, but it still causes a great deal of
distress."

In a separate weekend attack, an 80-year-old woman had her handbag snatched on
the city's Gerrard Street at around 9.45am yesterday.

Police are hunting a man in his early 20s, 5ft 8in, slim, with short dark hair
and wearing a red and blue waterproof jacket.

On Saturday, another elderly woman had her purse snatched at a bus stop in
School Road at around 3.45pm.

The thief was 20-25, 5ft 7in -5ft 10in, with short dark hair and a moustache.

Anyone with information about the assaults should contact police on (01224)
386000 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1999 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              385 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           October 14, 1999, Thursday

BLOODY SUNDAY FAMILIES ATTACK ANONYMITY RULE;
 TERRORIST REPRISAL FEAR PROTECTS WITNESSES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 415 words


RELATIVES of 14 people killed during Bloody Sunday have criticised a decision to
grant all soldiers present in Londonderry during the shootings anonymity at
public hearings next year.

In a series of rulings yesterday, the Bloody Sunday Inquiry said it had no
option but to withhold the identities of all military witnesses.

Lord Saville's inquiry originally ruled that soldiers who fired their weapons on
Bloody Sunday would be identified but that decision was overturned in July by
the Court of the Appeal.

In its latest decision, the inquiry team yesterday extended anonymity to
soldiers who did not discharge their weapons.

A Ministry of Defence spokesman welcomed the decision as providing "a crucial
measure of protection for all military witnesses who could have been subjected
to the threat of terrorist reprisal".

However, John Kelly, whose brother, Michael, was one of the 14 civil rights
marchers shot dead on January 30, 1972, claimed the ruling would "damage the
inquiry's openness and transparency".

"We are disappointed, if not surprised, by this ruling.

"As someone who lost a brother during Bloody Sunday, I, and other relatives,
would have preferred to have known the identity and seen those who killed our
relatives testify."

Solicitor Peter Madden, whose firm represents 11 of the 14 bereaved families
along with 10 out of 13 of the wounded, disputed claims that, if the soldiers
had been identified, it would have left them open to terrorist reprisals.

"The relatives believe the soldiers had nothing to fear from being named, apart
from the embarrassment of being involved in the events of Bloody Sunday," he
said.

"We would point out the names of some of soldiers involved in Bloody Sunday,
like Colonel Wilford, have been out in the public domain and have made no
attempt to hide their identity and there have been no reprisals."

Mr Kelly and Mr Madden welcomed a ruling by the inquiry to grant families funds
to employ independent forensics and ballistics experts to help them and their
legal teams.

The inquiry also ordered several media organisations to disclose the identities
of their sources in programmes and articles about the shootings, unless the
inquiry can obtain the information by other means.

Lord Saville's team said it was also referring the case of a Daily Telegraph
journalist to the Director of Public Prosecution for destroying notes and audio
tapes of interviews with several of his sources.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              386 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 19, 1999

TEACHER'S RACE HATE TERROR;
Beaten, driven from home then arsonists attack her new house

BYLINE: Lucy Lawrence

SECTION: Pg. 1;2

LENGTH: 500 words


A LONDON teacher who was beaten unconscious by racists then subjected to a
sustained and violent hate campaign until she moved house has had her new,
secret address targeted by thugs in another terrifying attack.

Alison Moore, who lives with her seven-year-old daughter, woke in the early
hours to find burning rags had been stuffed through her letterbox in an attempt
to burn down her new home.

She was told by police not to talk about details of the incident but said: "It
has been an absolutely terrifying week for me.

Thankfully we are both unhurt.

"I just want this to be sorted, to be over. It has had an effect on my daughter,
she's only a child, and I just want the best investigation possible.

"Our lives were in danger. I don't know whether I will have to move again.

I worry about the fact that nobody has been caught for the initial attack at the
school but I can say that the police have worked very hard on this."

Miss Moore, 31, who continues to teach at the primary school in Catford where
she was attacked, was placed under police protection when she moved to her new
address, in the hope that the harassment would stop. Instead, she said, the
attack last Wednesday night was the third incident at the house.

"None of the others have been violent but I just want it to be over."

Now a reinforced steel box has been bolted to the inside of her letter box in a
bid to stop any further arson attacks.

At the entrance to the road is a yellow police sign appealing for witnesses to
the attack, described as a "criminal damage fire".

In 1998 two white teenagers beat and kicked Miss Moore, leaving her for dead
outside Sandhurst Junior School. She spent a week in hospital with internal
bleeding, fractured ribs and a cracked pelvis.

Since then she has been the target of obscene, racist, threatening letters and
had swastikas and National Front insignia daubed on her door by a masked
intruder. The final straw came when a local newspaper reporter contacted her to
say he had received a telephone call from someone threatening to "do her in".

Sim'on de Banya, of the Lewisham Racial Equality Council, said he would be
demanding to find out what the police were doing to find Miss Moore's attackers.

"The initial attack was attempted murder and this latest incident is just as
severe. The concern is really about what progress the police are making with
their inquiries as it appears that the perpetrators of this crime are hellbent
on making her life hell."

Martin Powell-Davis, of the Lewisham branch of the National Union of Teachers,
said: "The great concern is that someone has gone to the trouble of finding out
where she lives. We don't know what they will follow it up with."

A Metropolitan Police spokeswoman refused to detail the attack. She said: "We
are taking this incident very seriously but are keeping an open mind as to
whether it was linked to the others. We will be reviewing what has happened in
the past."


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              387 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 22, 1999, Friday

Raid reinforces fears of terror attacks

BYLINE: Christopher Walker

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 538 words


Christopher Walker reports on the republican dissidents

IRISH police deployed a stun-grenade in Wednesday night's raid on an underground
training site used by dissident republicans, apparently the first time they have
done so to combat terrorism.

The swoop, as Real IRA members trained in an underground firing range 30 miles
outside Dublin, was part of a campaign against dissident republicans that has
seen 26 arrests since October 5. Among the ten held on Wednesday night was a boy
aged 14. Efforts were being made to discover whether his youth was a matter of
chance and family links, or if the dissidents are recruiting children.

The recent raids have uncovered sufficient ammunition to reinforce warnings by
police chiefs in both the Republic and Northern Ireland that the renegades are
planning a renewal of violence. Pat Byrne, the Garda Commissioner, gave warning
that dissident republicans - now reorganised under the name Ogalaigh na
hEireann, an historic title also used by the Provisional IRA - were increasingly
confident and could even clash with the Provisionals in an attempt to steal arms
from their dumps.

Ronnie Flanagan, the RUC Chief Constable, issued his third public warning in
less than a month that the dissidents, increasingly unhappy with the Provisional
IRA ceasefire, were planning an attack, particularly along the Northern Ireland
border where British Army anti-terrorist patrols have been intensfied. Sir
Ronnie, who has been co-operating closely with his Garda colleagues in the drive
against the dissident triumvirate of members of the Real IRA, the Continuity IRA
and the Irish National Liberation Army, added that a strike on mainland Britain
"clearly cannot be ruled out."

The raids, led by the Irish Special Branch and based on intelligence that some
observers believe may have been provided by members of the Provisonal IRA, have
stretched from Counties Wexford and Wicklow to Donegal and Sligo. Some of the
sites were near the Rosslare ferry route and arms recovered have included the
first Semtex high explosive known to have fallen into the hands of the
dissidents plus a mortar which could be used against military targets.

Wednesday night's raid on what was described as a "dissident republican training
area" came as recruits were firing guns in the disused wine cellar converted
into an underground firing range near a ruined farmhouse near Balbriggan in Co
Dublin. "A few of the guys were down there practising with their guns. Boy, were
they surprised to see us," said a police spokesman.

Chief Superintendent Michael Finnegan expressed shock that a 14-year-old should
be among those there. It was known that the dissidents had attracted some young
recruits with little or no involvement in paramilitary activity.

Irish experts believe the dissidents' intend to carry out a campaign, including
terrorist "spectaculars" in and around London, which will embarrass Sinn Fein
into having nothing more to do with the Good Friday accord, and boost the
grouping's recruitment potential among IRA personnel.

Weapons seized on Wednesday night included an AK47 assault rifle, a hand-held
Beretta machine gun, a pistol and 150 rounds of ammunition.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              388 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 27, 1999

Couple in brick attack terror

SECTION: News, Pg.15

LENGTH: 76 words



SWINDON: Police are appealing for witnesses after a brick was hurled through the
windscreen of a Transit van as it was being driven along Cirencester Way on
Monday.

The driver and his wife, who was sitting in the front seat, were badly shaken
but otherwise unhurt.

The brick was thrown from a white van in which there were two men wearing
baseball caps and sunglasses. Police described it as "an unprovoked and mindless
act of violence".


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              389 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                October 29, 1999

Blind OAP, 82 speaks of attack terror
 Victim warns others

BYLINE: By Alison Shaw

SECTION: Pg.3

LENGTH: 361 words


A BLIND 82-year-old mugging victim today spoke of her trauma in the hope it will
stop others falling prey to cowardly thugs.

The frail Aberdeen widow, who can't walk unaided, was attacked from behind just
moments after collecting her pension.

She was left battered and bruised when her attacker snatched her handbag and a
small sum of cash in broad daylight.

Police hunting the heartless culprit fear it could be just a matter of time
before a similar incident ends in tragedy.

The victim, who does not want to be identified, agreed to relive the ordeal in a
bid to catch the thief.

"As my balance is not good I was walking on my daughter's arm. I would only have
been three or four yards from the Post Office door when there was this almighty
pulland I landed on the ground.

"It all just happened in seconds, I couldn't believe it. It was all so sudden.

"I just felt they must have been on drugs to do something like that. I don't
think it is the first time he has done it. He was just so expert - away in a
flash."

The victim grazed her knees and was badly shaken by the attack on Tuesday
afternoon in Northfield's Oldcroft Place. But she is determined to try to put
the terrifying experience behind her.

"It's always on your mind but I'm doing my best. I'm trying to fight it off but
I will never forget it."

Her daughter, who raised the alarm, said it was lucky her mum had only been
slightly hurt.

"He could have drawn a knife or hit her on the head. You have to be thankful her
injuries will soon heal but the mental scars will stay.

"The only reason we are speaking out is we would not want a similar thing to
happen to another older person. If people can be alerted to be safety conscious
it could save someone else from being injured and maybe jog someone's memory.

"This would be a great example, if he is caught, to come face to face with mum
to see what he has actually done to her life."

The attacker is 5ft 6in to 5ft 7in, slim with dark brown hair worn in a fringe
and a pale complexion. He was wearing a grey anorak, dark jeans and khaki shoes.

Anyone with information should contact police on (01224) 386000.

Comment, Page 12

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1999 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              390 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            November 1, 1999, Monday

WAS FLIGHT 990 BLOWN OUT OF THE SKY?;
 214 DEAD IN CRASH: TERRORIST ATTACK FEARS AS JET FALLS LIKE STONE FROM 33,000
FEET

BYLINE: Steve Martin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2, 3

LENGTH: 826 words


THE 214 people blown out of the sky off the American coast yesterday may have
been the victims of a terrorist bomb.

The pilot of EgyptAir flight 990 had no time to send out a Mayday message before
his plane "fell like a rock" into the Atlantic Ocean.

Last night, as more than 80 bodies were recovered from the sea, experts said
"something catastrophic" must have happened to the Boeing 767 as it headed for
Cairo at 33,000 feet.

They said it pointed to a massive mid-air mechanical defect involving the
electrical wiring - or a bomb.

The plane left Los Angeles on Saturday night and stopped to pick up passengers
at New York's JFK airport before taking off again at 1.19am local time.

At 2am, air traffic controllers watched in horror as it dropped 13,900ft in just
24 seconds and then vanished from radar screens.

Yesterday, America's Federal Aviation Authority said they had received a
specific threat to bomb a plane leaving either Los Angeles or JFK airports.

It was made by fugitive Luciano Porcari, who hijacked a plane in Spain in 1977.

The FAA issued a warning to all airlines and said the alert should remain in
force until October 30 - the day flight 990 took off from LA.

The FBI, who questioned ground crew and baggage handlers involved with the
flight, said terrorism could not be ruled out at this stage.

There were 199 passengers on board, including two babies, plus 15 crew.

The plane came down 60 miles from the island of Nantucket, off the coast of
Massachusetts.

It took emergency teams seven hours to find the wreckage and the first body. One
rescuer said: "From the pieces we have recovered, it's quite clear that the
plane fell like a rock."

A massive sea and air search by coastguards and the US Navy was still going on
last night but no one expected to find any survivors.

At the point where the plane crashed, the sea is up to 250ft deep.

There were more than 60 Egyptians on board flight 990 and there were chaotic
scenes at Cairo Airport as relatives tried to discover what had happened to
their loved ones.

At one stage, a rumour went round that the plane had landed safely in London.

It was several hours before many were told the truth.

One woman collapsed and had to be given oxygen.

Another, Aida Bahjat, was inconsolable as she waited for news of her son, Essam,
who had been in holiday in the United States.

He had promised to call his mother if he missed the flight - and there had been
no call.

EgyptAir director Yahya Agati said: "God forbid what could have happened to the
aircraft was an explosion.

"I know the captain of that flight, Captain Hatem Rushdie, and he is one of the
most qualified pilots on such planes and one of the most qualified pilots on
EgyptAir.

"His experience includes having more than 10,000 flying hours on such aircraft,
so he's one of the best."

When asked about the FAA warning, the airline's boss, Mohammed Fahim Rayan,
replied: "We take all precautions and we have plenty of warnings from everybody,
including the FAA."

Security on EgyptAir is among the tightest in the world.

Passengers undergo a second baggage search before boarding to minimise the
chances of weapons being smuggled aboard.

Armed security giards regularly police flights, but it was unclear whether any
of them were on board.

Crash investigators, some of whom had been working on last week's Learjet
tragedy in which golfer Payne Stewart died, flew to Nantucket

They were concentrating their efforts on locating the black box recorder which
could tell them why they plane crashed.

Professor Paul Wilkinson, director of the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and
Political Violence at St Andrews University, said a terrorist attack "could not
be discounted".

He said: "If some sort of engineering problem arises on an aircraft then almost
inevitably the pilot manages to get a message through.

"In the absence of this one would have to take into account that a terrorist
attack is a possible answer."

President Clinton was told about the crash just hours before he flew to Norway
for Middle East peace talks.

He said: "Like all Americans, Hillary and I are very saddened.

"We don't know what the cause of the accident is, but we'll keep working until
we find out."

Vice-president Al Gore promised a thorough investigation to "learn whatever we
can to avert further tragedies".

And he said the United States would co-operate with the government of Egypt "in
doing everything we possibly can to find the cause of this tragedy".

The EgyptAir 767 involved in yesterday's crash was 10 years old and had logged
more than 31,000 flight hours.

It was on a route similar to the one taken by Swissair Flight 111, a McDonnell
Douglas MD11, which crashed off Nova Scotia in 1998, killing all 229 people
aboard.

Planes on that route fly from JFK to Nantucket, then turn north to Nova Scotia
and Newfoundland before heading east across the Atlantic.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1999 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              391 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            November 8, 1999, Monday

ISRAEL IS ROCKED BY BOMBS ATTACK;
 BLAST TERROR: 21 INJURED IN EXPLOSIONS

BYLINE: Paul Hardaker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 206 words


A MAN lies hurt after three pipe bombs exploded yesterday in Israel, injuring 21
people.

A fourth bomb in the coastal town of Netanya was defused.

Police said two suspects had been taken into custody.

Army radio reported that police were questioning a Palestinian man and woman.

Prime Minister Ehud Barak said in a statement issued by his office that he took
a "grave" view of the attack.

He added: "The government under my leadership is determined to foil terrorism
and will do all it can to stop threats on the peace and well-being of Israeli
citizens."

The pipe bombs, placed close together, exploded outside a bank in a busy
shopping area.

At a street corner near the site, a group gathered and shouted "death to Arabs"
and "Barak go home".

The explosions came the day after the militant Islamic Hamas movement faxed a
leaflet to an international news agency threatening attacks against Israeli
citizens.

But Sheik Ahmed Yassin, the spiritual leader of the group, said: "Hamas strategy
is opposed to attacks against innocent civilians, yet we are continuing with our
resistance against the occupation."

The Palestinian Authority condemned the attack, suggesting Iranian-based groups
may have been responsible.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1999 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              392 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          November 13, 1999, Saturday

YOUTH HAD BLADE HELD TO HIS THROAT;
 GANG BEHIND BARS FOR TERROR ATTACK ON A-LEVEL STUDENT

BYLINE: Ernest Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 373 words


THREE teenage thugs are behind bars for carrying out a terrifying robbery in
which a 12-inch blade was held to the throat of a Coventry student.

The 17-year-old victim was on his way to sit his A-level examinations when he
was ambushed in an alleyway by Barry Holloway-Johnson, Allan Page and Warren
Frazier, Coventry Crown Court heard.

Richard Bond, prosecuting, told how the youth was viciously beaten by Page and
Frazier while Holloway-Johnson held the knife to his throat and ordered him to
strip.

The victim said he saw the gang leaning against a wall as he was walking to
school and, fearing he was going to be attacked, tried to run away, but Page
tripped him over.

While he lay on the floor, he was kicked and punched repeatedly by Page and
Frazier while Holloway-Johnson threatened him with the knife, the court
heard.The gang collared him as he tried to escape and demanded he hand over his
possessions.

The three accused stole his watch, his jacket, house keys, wallet, trainers and
schoolbag.

The youth said: "I was up against the wall and had my head down when I was being
hit by the three of them. The knife was held to my throat and he
(Holloway-Johnson) kneed me in my stomach."

Holloway-Johnson, aged 18, of Lythalls Lane, Holbrooks, pleaded guilty to
robbery and was sentenced to three years in a young offenders' institution for
the attack on June 9.

Holloway-Johnson, who asked for 11 other offences of theft, attempted burglary
and burglary to be taken into consideration, was sentenced to a further two
years detention, to run concurrently, for a similar robbery on a 14-year-old
boy.Page, aged 17, of Hillside, Stoke Heath, pleaded guilty to robbery and was
sentenced to three years in a young offenders' institution.

Frazier, aged 16, of Thorney Road, Stoke Heath, also pleaded guilty to robbery
and was sentenced to 21 months in a young offenders' institution.

Peter Cooper, de-fending Holloway-Johnson, said his client carried out the
offences to get cash to buy cannabis.

Sentencing, Judge Alastair McCreath said: "These sort of events make all of us
feel unsafe when we walk the streets. The courts will show how serious they are
by passing appropriate sentences."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              393 of 412 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 16, 1999, Tuesday

TERROR IN THE NIGHT;
 REVENGE ATTACK ON MOTHER AS FAMILY WAGES WAR OVER ARSON

BYLINE: Chris Riches

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 282 words


AN uncle yesterday admitted taking revenge after his two young nieces were
killed in an arson attack on their home.

Wayne Hibberd assaulted the mother of Donna Clarke, 28, who was originally
convicted of the arson attack and then cleared by the Court of Appeal.

Shauna Hibberd, two, and sister Sarah-Jane, 13 months, died with their mother
Diane Jones, 21, when petrol was poured through their door.

Donna Clarke was later jailed for 20 years for arson with intent to endanger
life - but was freed on appeal.

Wayne Hibberd, brother of the children's dad Shaun Hibberd, yesterday admitted a
late night attack on the Clarke family home.

Hibberd, 35, and friends Simon Richards, 24, and Royston Power, 21, pleaded
guilty to the attack on her mother Christine Clarke. Cardiff Crown Court heard
Mrs Clarke was alone when the gang forced their way in.

Prosecutor Ieuan Rees said the mother was "kicked and punched" before her home
in Penydarren, Merthyr Tydfil, south Wales was wrecked.

Judge Mark Furness said: "It must have been a terrifying ordeal." Greg Bull,
defending, told the court the attack happened two weeks after her daughter's
conviction had been quashed.

Donna Clarke and her aunt Annette Hewins were convicted of starting the blaze in
Merthyr in October 1995.

Clarke was jailed for 20 years and Hewins for 13 but both were released this
year after their convictions were quashed.

Hibberd, of Merthyr, admitted violent disorder but was cleared of burglary.

Richards and Power, both also of Merthyr, admitted violent disorder and criminal
damage. They will be sentenced in January. A fourth man was cleared of taking
part in the attack.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTIM: Sarah-Jane

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              394 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 19, 1999

Maniac in terror attack on horse

BYLINE: Jeff Wells

SECTION: News, Pg.10

LENGTH: 225 words


A HORSE owner last night hit out at the maniac who mutilated a two-year- old
filly on a farm near Bath.

The distressed owner, who does not want to be identified, discovered the
mutilation when the horse was checked on Wednesday evening.

The horse had been slashed with a knife in the genital area in a way a vet said
could not have happened by accident.

It is thought an attempt was made to remove the genitals and the wound is so
deep it cannot be stitched.

Police have launched an investigation and using HorseWatch are alerting other
owners to the crime.

The owner said last night: "She's on antibiotics and probably will be for a week
or so. It is an eight-inch cut.

Logic

"Personally I cannot get my mind around it. I cannot find a logic or a sense to
why anybody would want to do that.

"There are some sick people out there.

"I want people to be warned. I don't want it to happen to anyone else. I have
two pregnant mares and if it had happened to them it would have killed them."

He said he had been told about a similar incident near Newbury where the
genitals had been removed and the horse had bled to death.

It is the latest incident involving horses being slashed.

Last year a young girl's pony was discovered covered in blood in a field in
Winterbourne.

Two other mares were slashed late in 1997.


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              395 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 23, 1999, Tuesday

XMAS ALERT ON TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 279 words


BRITAIN has been put on its highest terrorist alert since the Omagh bombing amid
fears that dissident republicans are plotting to wreck the Ulster peace process.

Intelligence sources suggest that a splinter group could be planning a major
attack in the run-up to Christmas and the millennium.

Police forces across the country have been placed on a high state of alert. Up
to 30 other organisations and major companies have also warned about the threat.

Potential individual targets, including senior military and political figures,
have been alerted. A security source said: "There are very credible grounds on
which this increased concern is based.

"We think it would be prudent to view a range of dangers from a variety of
terrorist methods."

The public is being warned to be vigilant and to report to the police
immediately any suspicious phone calls or threats.

Security forces fear that terrorists could resort to letter bombs, car bombs or
attacks on high-profile figures.

Intelligence information independently relayed to both the Royal Ulster
Constabulary and the Irish Republic's Garda Siochana police force has indicated
that maverick republican paramilitaries were plotting new campaigns on both
sides of the Irish Sea in a bid to wreck the peace process.

The number of activists involved is unlikely to add up to more than a handful.

A security sources in Dublin said: "It has always been recognised that some
effort would be made to destabilise the peace process at some time.

"No-one in Britain and Ireland can afford to let their guard drop.

"It only needs a few determined terrorists to launch a foolhardy attack."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              396 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 23, 1999, Tuesday

ARMED RAIDERS IN TERROR ATTACK ON POST OFFICE

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 197 words


MASKED raiders terrorised staff at a Walsall post office when they tied up the
owner and her son and threatened to shoot frightened shop assistants last night.

The men, all dressed in black and wearing balaclavas, burst into the store in
High Street, Pelsall, shortly after closing time at 5.50pm and demanded cash.

They pushed one shop assistant to the ground causing her to faint and said they
would shoot all those in the shop if they did not open the safe.

The post office owner, who did not wish to be named, said everyone in the shop
had been badly shaken by what happened.

She added: "They wanted me to open the safe. I have never been in a situation
like this before."

But the would be robbers fled empty handed when she opened the safe and
activated the alarm.

Inspector Dick Cowley of Willenhall Police said: "This was a nasty offence and
distressed the people involved.

"Someone must know who did this and we would appeal for anyone with further
information to come forward."

He said the would-be robbers ran off across a car park at the back of the Post
Office.

Anyone who can help should contact Willenhall Police on 01922 439117.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              397 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     November 24, 1999, Wednesday Edition 1

Festive terror attacks fear

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 333 words


   THE region's police forces remained tight-lipped amid fears Republican
dissidents were plotting a festive bombing campaign in Britain.

Security reviews indicated that the threat from groups opposed to the peace
process was at its highest since last year's Omagh atrocity in which 29 people
died.

The news led Scotland Yard to issue a national terrorist alert. Individual
targets and political figures have also been alerted about the threat of
assassination.

A spokeswoman said: "There is a genuine and credible concern about the threat of
violence not only in Ireland but also on the British mainland from breakaway
renegade groups who are opposed to the peace process.

"Police continually review security measures and regularly liaise with other
forces and government departments on security matters.

"Any suspicious telephone calls or threats should be brought to the attention of
the police immediately and businesses should ensure their CCTV systems are
operating properly." She confirmed that officers had briefed private companies,
utilities and transport organisations about the threat.

The North-East has already been the target of IRA bombs. In 1994 building worker
Sean McNulty was given a 25-year sentence for three bomb attacks on an Esso oil
terminal in North Shields and one on a gas holder in Dunston, Gateshead. Members
of McNulty's family were also charged but later cleared of any involvement in
the IRA plot.

Yesterday the region's forces refused to comment on the nature of the threat or
any special measures introduced. In identical statements, Northumbria and
Cleveland police, said: "We continually monitor and review counter terrorism
measures.

"Although we are not prepared to comment on individual matters of security the
force has a responsibility to people in the area."

MetroCentre manager, operations, John Bell, said: "As one of the largest out of
town shopping centres in Europe we already have extensive security in place."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              398 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                               November 26, 1999

Druggie jailed for terror sex attack on girl

BYLINE: By Alison Shaw

SECTION: Crime: Assault, Pg.3

LENGTH: 225 words


AN ABERDEEN heroin addict wept as a court heard details of his terrifying sexual
assault on his teenage ex-girlfriend.

Derrick Seenan, 27, toyed with his 18-year-old victim, forced her to strip and
then threatened to hit her with a piece of wood before smothering her with a
cushion.

At the High Court in Inverness yesterday Seenan, a prisoner in Aberdeen was
jailed for 27 months.

He was said to have assaulted the girl because he was jealous after wrongly
believing she had been with another man. They had split up earlier because of
his drug habit.

Advocate depute Ruth Anderson QC said he had taken drugs before the offence took
place in an Aberdeen house last August.

The girl's ordeal began at 2am and lasted two hours. Friends in the next room
were too frightened to help.

"He held a screwdriver above her body, counted up to 30, and then brought it
down with such force that the girl thought she was going to be killed if it
struck her, but he stopped an inch above her chest," said Ms Anderson.

He then threatened to knock her out with the wood so she would not feel anything
when he stabbed her with the screwdriver.

Jailing Seenan, Lord Morison (correct)nnnold him:"This was a very serious
assault which was plainly a terrifying experience for the victim and is
aggravated by an appalling record and addiction to drugs."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1999 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              399 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                               November 26, 1999

Court told of flat attack terror

BYLINE: By

SECTION: Default, Pg.8

LENGTH: 427 words


A WOMAN thought she was going to die when her ex-boyfriend, who had just been
released from prison locked her in her flat and attacked her.

She said he punched her and then produced a knife.

The woman was so frightened, Newton Abbot magistrates heard, that she jumped
from the balcony of her second floor flat and landed on a balcony 10ft below.

In the dock was Jeremy Britton, 25, of no fixed address. He was remanded in
custody when he was sent for sentence at Exeter Crown Court after admitting a
charge of assault causing actual bodily harm.

Mrs Madeline Jackson, prosecuting, said Britton and his former girlfriend, had
been together in a six year 'volatilei relationship and police had been called
to domestic incidents.

But, stressed Mrs Jackson, they had not been all one-sided.

She said, though, that the incident which led to the court case 'was way beyond
the normal type of assault.i

She said the pair were no longer a couple, but the woman let Britton stay at her
flat when he came out of prison because she felt sorry for him.

She stayed with a friend, and had asked Britton to get out of her flat on the
day of the assault.

It happened on the evening of November 8 and both of them were in the flat when
the woman told police that Britton tried to kiss her. She said she did not want
to sleep with him, and went to leave the flat.

But, she said, Britton punched her in the mouth and then grabbed her round the
neck and squeezed.

She said she scratched and gouged his face, and he then went and double locked
the front door before hitting and punching her again. She said he produced a
knife from his pocket and threatened to kill her.

She said: 'I truly feared for my life.i

She was so frightened she escaped on to the balcony and climbed over, hanging on
by her hands.

The woman told police Britton clenched his fist and she thought he was going to
'punch me off the balcony.i

That was when she decided to drop down to the balcony below.

She said: 'For 15 to 20 minutes I was absolutely terrified and feared for my
life. I was so scared.i

Partnership

Mr Michael Zahara, defending, said that the woman had stayed true to Britton for
17 months and one week of the 18 months he served for burglary.

'But, three weeks before his release, she contracted a partnership with another
man,i said the solicitor.

Britton became depressed after his release and, said Mr Zahara, lost his temper
after the woman was intimate with him and then told him she was going to see her
new boyfriend.

Britton denied producing a knife.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1999 Herald Express

                              400 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 27, 1999

Police train for terror attacks

BYLINE: Matt Holmes

SECTION: News, Pg.10

LENGTH: 165 words



POLICE officers from Gloucestershire and Wiltshire have joined forces this
weekend for what is believed to be a counter-terrorist exercise.

Teams of officers from both counties met up yesterday for the start of Exercise
Fosway, which is believed to be taking place on the Gloucestershire- Wiltshire
border.

The operation has been shrouded in secrecy because of its nature.

The police will only say that they are undertaking a contingency planning
exercise as part of a national training programme and cannot reveal the nature
of the exercise for operational reasons.

But as tension increases over possible terrorist attacks from splinter groups in
Northern Ireland it is likely security will be stepped up across the West, which
is home to military bases, top politicians and Royal residences.

The exercise is understood to end tomorrow and police say there will be no
reduction in the normal quality and standard of policing provided during the
three-day exercise.


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              401 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               November 29, 1999

Church terror of 'crazed' attacker;
 INJURED: eight in hospital after sword rampage

BYLINE: PA News Reporters

SECTION: News, Pg.7

LENGTH: 432 words


EIGHT members of a church congregation remained in hospital today after a crazed
sword-wielding attacker ran amok through a church during a Sunday service.

Last night two church goers who bravely battled with the 26-year-old naked
maniac before he was overpowered were hailed as heroes.

Off-duty police officer Tom Tracey, 40, and bank clerk Bob Wright used a church
organ pipe and a crucifix at the end of a pole to beat off the attacker who
turned Mass at St Andrew's Roman Catholic Church in Thornton Heath, Surrey, into
a blood bath.

Several worshippers suffered stab wounds while others were injured as members of
the 300-strong congregation stampeded for the church exits.

Afterwards Pc Tracey, a uniformed response officer with the Metropolitan Police,
described the moment he turned and saw the "absolutely wild" attacker slashing
indiscriminately at worshippers' heads and faces.

Detective Chief Inspector Phil Fitzgerald praised Pc Tracey and Mr Wright.

The first ambulance staff to arrive at the church said the scene of carnage that
awaited them was the worst they had ever come across.

Gary Newton, 36, a paramedic with 14 years' experience, said he treated one
victim who had lost three litres of blood and his hand had been partially
severed at the wrist with the loss of two fingers and a thumb.

"In all the years that I have been a paramedic, it is probably one of the worst
things I have ever seen."

Home Secretary Jack Straw sent his deep sympathy to the injured, relatives and
friends.

Eleven people were taken to two London hospitals with a variety of injuries.

This morning six people were still at the Mayday Hospital, Croydon, after three
were allowed home last night.

Two others, a man in his 30s and a woman in her 80s, are being treated at St
George's Hospital, Tooting.

None is thought to have life-threatening injuries.

The most badly injured victim, the man who lost part of his hand, is in
intensive care where his condition is described as stable.

Last night he underwent a series of operations

A spokeswoman at St George's Hospital said: "We have two patients on our wards.
Both are undergoing active treatment."

Police were today questioning a man, named locally as Eden Strang, who lives in
a flat near the church at Thornton Heath, with his wife and daughter, in
connection with the attacks.

DCI Fitzgerald said: "We're trying to determine a motive of what might have
caused the man to do this.

"Apart from suffering some severe depression we have no details as to why he
carried out this horrific attack."


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              402 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                December 4, 1999

Man, 72, in terror attack

BYLINE: By David O'Callaghan

SECTION: Courts: CROWN, Pg.3

LENGTH: 235 words


A72-year-old Swansea man was punched and kicked in the face after he refused a
cigarette to a 16-year-old youth.

Pensioner John Alfred Green was terrified after the attack and his confidence is
now shattered, Swansea Crown Court was told.

Mark Anthony Owen, of Tegid Road, Mayhill, was sent to a young offender
institution for nine months after admitting causing actual bodily harm to Mr
Green during the early evening attack in Hewson Street, Mount Pleasant, on July
5.

Owen, who had been drinking, saw Mr Green walking in the street. He asked him
for a cigarette - a request the pensioner refused, said prosecuting barrister
Mark Spackman.

He said Owen punched Mr Green in the face, pulled his jacket over his head and
punched him in the face again. He also kicked Mr Green in the face.

It was an attack that humiliated and terrified the pensioner and resulted in
very unpleasant injuries.

Mr Spackman said the inci-dent had shattered Mr Green's confidence and severely
restricted his quality of life.

Defence counsel Frank Phillips said that Owen, who had no previous convictions,
was genuinely remorseful. His family were appalled by what he had done.

Assistant Recorder Peter Murphy told Owen: "Vicious attacks on vulnerable
mem-bers of society will be dealt with extremely seriously. Courts have a duty
to not only punish offenders but also to seek to deter others."

Opinion - page 6

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1999 South Wales Evening Post

                              403 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                December 8, 1999

Nurses tell of terror attacks at hospital
 Cornhill under fire over staff security fears

BYLINE: By

SECTION: News:Health:Hospitals, Pg.2

LENGTH: 569 words


TERRIFIED nurses today revealed they are living in fear of their lives after a
series of shocking attacks at an Aberdeen hospital.

And they fired a broadside at bosses at Royal Cornhill Hospital who they claimed
have failed to tighten up security to protect them.

Nurses who contacted the Evening Express said it is only a matter of time before
a worker is seriously hurt - or even killed.

Recent attacks at the psychiatric hospital have included:

A patient breaking a doctor's wrist with his bare hands and giving a nurse two
black eyes.

The same patient breaking a nurse's nose after being moved to a "more secure"
ward.

A scissor-wielding patient repeatedly slashing a nurse.

Police being called to restrain a patient who smashed up a ward.

Fearful Cornhill staff are also furious after three nurses were suspended last
month, accused of restraining a patient in an "inappropriate manner".

It is claimed the incident has made many staff reluctant to use restraining
techniques, putting them in more danger.

A number of nurses have contacted the Evening Express saying there was
widespread fear within the building.

One senior member of staff, who did not wish to be identified for fear of
repercussions, claimed management were failing to protect staff.

She claimed security camera cover was inadequate and said staff were concerned
that unlike Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, the hospital does not have security
guards.

She said: "We have got known dangerous drug addicts coming in every day. Anyone
can walk into Cornhill Hospital because there is no security whatsover, other
than CCTV - but that is taped and not monitored.

"Often undesirable characters are only questioned when they have reached a ward,
which really is too late."

The unmanned CCTV cameras only covered reception areas and the grounds but not
the wards.

And she added: "I must defend our right as highly-skilled individuals to
prescribe physical methods of restraint when necessary."

"These are used as a last resort when verbal de-escalation tactics have failed
or are simply unemployable as an incident has already started."

Despite the training, she said: "Staff are regularly placed in vulnerable
positions having to cope with increasingly dangerous situations.

"I believe that it will not be long before a very serious incident occurs."

, and more than likely it will be a nurse that is affected."

Another nurse said: "We have had attacks involving knives and syringes. It is
only a matter of time before a nurse is killed."

Hospital union official Colin McKenzie, of Unison, said security measures had
come under close scrutiny in the wake of the recent incidents.

"Whether it's been effective or not is debatable," he said.

"In the past we have questioned whether we need a stronger security system and
guards but we didn't get very far."

Grampian Primary Healthcare Trust communications manager John Miller said:
"There is no evidence whatsoever of any increase in the number of incidents on
psychiatric wards."

Lessons are learned from the few incidents that do occur, he stressed.

"The aim is to provide an environment which is both safe and secure for patients
and staff alike. "Unlike general medical wards, patients in psychiatric wards
are often distressed and unpredictable.

Staff are skilled and specially trained to work on psychiatric wards."

Nurse tells of fears, Page 12

Comment, Page 12

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1999 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              404 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                     December 8, 1999, Wednesday Edition 1

Heart attack child facing vermin terror -;
Tot who fought back from brink of death in mice-plagued home

BYLINE: by Miles Starforth

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 203 words


   A FAMILY whose baby survived four heart attacks is having to bring her up in
a house over-run with mice.

Amy Hurrell, whose heart stopped after meningoccal septicaemia triggered a
series of cardiac arrests, has been dubbed a miracle baby.

Now the 18-month-old is scared to go into kitchen cupboards in the family's
Wallsend home in case a mouse crawls over her hand.

North Tyneside Council's pest controllers have been putting poison down but
Amy's mum Michaela, 23, says it has not stopped the mice.

Mum-of-four Michaela said: "The problem started two years ago after we moved in.
Mice come from the grassed area behind the garden.

"It is becoming a nightmare for all of us.

"If I tell my daughter she can have a biscuit she won't go in the cupboards
herself and I don't blame her."

Arrears

"We want to be rehoused but the council will not as we are in rent arrears. But
that is because of the mice. We said we wouldn't pay until they sorted it out."

Amy's dad Michael, 24, said: "The council don't seem to want to help us which
isn't fair on the children."

A council spokeswoman said: "Our pest control team has been to the house twice.
We are taking the problems seriously."

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BORN SURVIVOR - Amy and dad, Michael, in hospital when she was
recovering from heart attacks brought on by her septicaemia

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              405 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     December 8, 1999, Wednesday Edition 1

Gemma, 12, tells of her terror attack by 25 bullies

SECTION: REGIONAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 59 words


   Victim: Gemma Telford looks out to a world she is frightened to venture into
because of an "obscene" attack by a gang led by a jealous 13-year-old girl.
Police yesterday described the incident as the worst instance of bullying they
had ever dealt with. It has left Gemma, 12, a shadow of her former self, say her
parents.

Full story: Pages 2

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              406 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                December 8, 1999

Young mum fights off terror sex attack

SECTION: News: People, Pg.4

LENGTH: 297 words


A YOUNG Leicester mum today spoke of her terrifying ordeal at the hands of a sex
attacker who struck as she walked through the city centre with her young son.

The woman was in Erskine Street, Humberstone Gate, at 6.45pm on Friday, when a
man sneaked up behind and grabbed her.

He pushed her to one side and threw a volley of punches into her face.

As he continued to hit her he indecently assaulted her.

Throughout the ordeal, the woman screamed at her assailant and dug her nails
into his face as she fought to defend herself.

The man finally released her and got away along Erskine Street, heading towards
St Matthew's estate.

The violent assault has left the young mum with a badly bruised face, cut mouth,
very frightened and shaken.

Her two-year-old son witnessed the attack, but was not injured.

She said: "I just thought he was going to kill me. I thought he was going to
take me and my son somewhere.

"My son was very frightened at the time, but I'm glad to say he is okay. He was
my priority."

The young mum paid tribute to the support she had received from friends, family
and police, and urged anyone who can help with information to contact
detectives.

Her attacker, described as an African-Caribbean man, is aged between 27 and 33.

He is thought to be around 5ft 10ins to 6ft tall.

He has a round face with two slightly protruding front teeth with a gap between
them.

He was wearing a thigh-length dark coat, a large-checked fleecy shirt, faded
black jeans and black shoes or trainers.

Det Con Helen Rodgers, of Charles Street police station, is investigating the
assault and is urging anyone who can help with information to contact her on
0116 222 2222.

Alternatively, callers can use the free and anonymous Crimestoppers line on 0800
555111.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1999 Leicester Mercury

                              407 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                December 8, 1999

Mum fights off terror attack Son sees indecent assault

SECTION: News: 999, Pg.4

LENGTH: 331 words


A YOUNG Leicester mum today spoke of her terrifying ordeal at the hands of a sex
attacker who struck as she walked through the city centre with her young son.

The woman was in Erskine Street, Humberstone Gate, at 6.45pm on Friday, when a
man sneaked up behind and grabbed her.

He pushed her to one side and threw a volley of punches into her face.

As he continued to hit her he indecently assaulted her.

Throughout the ordeal, the woman screamed at her assailant and dug her nails
into his face as she fought to defend herself.

Badly bruised

The man finally released her and got away along Erskine Street, heading towards
St Matthew's estate.

The violent assault has left the young mum with a badly bruised face, cut mouth,
very frightened and shaken.

Her two-year-old son witnessed the attack, but was not injured.

She said: "I just thought he was going to kill me. I thought he was going to
take me and my son somewhere.

"My son was very frightened at the time, but I'm glad to say he is okay. He was
my priority."

The young mum paid tribute to the support she had received from friends, family
and police, and urged anyone who can help with information to contact
detectives.

Her attacker, described as an Afro -Caribbean man, is aged between 27 and 33.

He is thought to be around 5ft 10ins to 6ft tall.

He has a round face with two slightly protruding front teeth with a gap between
them.

He was wearing a thigh-length dark coat, a large-checked fleecy shirt, faded
black jeans and black shoes or trainers.

Det Con Helen Rodgers, of Charles Street police station, is investigating the
assault and is urging anyone who can help with information to contact her on
0116 222 2222.

Alternatively, callers can use the free and anonymous Crimestoppers line on 0800
555111.

I just thought he was going to kill me. I thought he was going to take me and my
son

somewhere. My son was very frightened at the time, but I'm glad to say he is
okay

Attacker's victim

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1999 Leicester Mercury

                              408 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 13, 1999, Monday

US WARNS OF MILLENNIUM TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Mary Dejevsky In Washington

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 388 words


THE US government says it has "credible information" that millennial
celebrations round the world could be targets of terrorist attacks, and is
telling all Americans to take precautions. The warning, issued by the US State
Department as a "global travel advisory" notice, said attacks "could be planned
for locations... where large gatherings and celebrations will be taking place".

The notice said that those "travelling or living abroad" should be especially
vigilant, as intelligence indicated that the planned attacks were "specifically
targeting American citizens". The Foreign Office in London said it was
consulting the US about the warning.

The notice did not name specific terrorist groups or locations, but officials
noted separately that the group headed by Osama bin Laden was seen as a prime
threat. Bin Laden, whose headquarters are thought to be in Afghanistan, is the
chief suspect in the bombings of US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania last year.
Although he is at the top of the US's "most wanted" list and the US has put
pressure on Taliban leaders to give him up, he has evaded capture.

An unnamed government source was quoted by the Los Angeles Times as saying that
there had been "a slew of threat reports" in recent weeks, mainly relating to Mr
Bin Laden, but "one emerged in the past couple of days that seemed much more
credible and specific".

The Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright, reinforced the warning on television
yesterday, but said there were "a variety of groups that we have been concerned
about and are watching".

The White House National Security Adviser, Sandy Berger, said on another TV
interview that the information was credible. "Americans are among the targets,"
he said. "It's not specific with respect to location... This is not just the
Middle East, but any location."

Among measures Americans are advised to take is to beware of appearing in big
groups, to keep a low profile and to vary daily routines.

Travel advisory notices are routinely issued by the US State Department, but
usually apply to named countries following particular US military or other
action. But "global" warnings have become more common: this is the fifth since
October. The last came after the UN approved sanctions against Afghanistan in
connection with Mr Bin Laden.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              409 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               December 15, 1999

MPs attack Straw over 'harsh' terrorism laws

BYLINE: By Desmond McCartan

LENGTH: 516 words


THE Government today was under mounting pressure to accept the need for a system
of regular monitoring of new permanent UK-wide counter-terrorism laws.

Some parts of the legislation relating specifically to Northern Ireland will be
still subject to annual renewal, but MPs are demanding that Parliament should be
told regularly about the way it operates.

Home Secretary Jack Straw faced cross-party criticism - Ulster Unionist MPs
apart - when the Government began the parliamentary debate on the Prevention of
Terrorism Bill last night.

MPs voiced concerns that the sweeping measure - it extends the definition of
terrorism to include "domestic" issues such as violent animal rights campaigns -
would stifle the right to protest.

Mr Straw fended off Labour backbench criticism, saying: "This Bill is not
intended to, nor will it, threaten in any way the right peacefully to
demonstrate.

"It is not designed to be used in situations where demonstrations unaccountably
turn ugly."

The measure, he insisted, was aimed at deterring, preventing and where
necessary, investigating, the "most heinous" crime.

"The Terrorism Bill is about protecting, not threatening, fundamental rights."

The wide-ranging and evolving threat from terrorism was not going to go away, he
added.

UUP MP Ken Maginnis, welcoming the legislation, said: "I want to ensure that we
have, throughout the UK, the sort of legislation that will ensure that no part
of this Kingdom has to go through what we went through in Northern Ireland over
the last 30 years."

He was surprised that some who had pressed him and other Ulster Unionists to
take a chance on the peace process were now criticising the Bill.

Lagan Valley MP Jeffrey Donaldson also backed the Bill, saying that it sent out
a signal that "terrorism will not be tolerated, whether it is in Northern
Ireland or other parts of the UK".

"A terrorist organisation which remains armed and refuses to declare that its
campaign of violence is over should remain a prescribed organisation," he added.

While there was the threat of terrorist intimidation of jurors, the Diplock
court system in Northern Ireland, involving a judge and hidden witnesses, should
continue, he said.

But veteran Labour left-winger Tony Benn condemned the Bill as "outrageous" and
"thoroughly bad".

He was "terribly disappointed that a Government that I support should be coming
forward with a measure that would get a standing ovation at a Tory conference
but is absolutely foreign to the conventions and traditions of the Labour
Party."

Shadow Home Secretary Ann Widdecombe said Tories supported the Government in
many of the Bill's provisions.

And criticising Labour's previous stance on anti-terrorism laws, she praised the
security forces, particularly the RUC.

Labour MP Kevin McNamara criticised the Government for passing up a "wonderful
opportunity" to do away with powers conferred on ministers by anti-terror
legislation, including the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

The Bill gained its second reading without a vote.


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              410 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 15, 1999

Terror attack alert

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 119 words


Warnings about an anti-American terrorist attack to coincide with the millennium
celebrations were prompted by the arrest of a dozen people in the Middle East,
some linked to the fugitive terrorist leader Osama bin Laden, it emerged last
night. The US state department said the detainees were believed to be members of
Bin Laden's Al Qaeda group.

It would not say where the arrests took place, but it did say that the group was
'capable and determined to carry out deadly attacks against innocent persons'
and that the threat was not confined to the Middle East. Bin Laden has been
indicted on charges connected to last year's bombings of the US embassies in
Kenya and Tanzania in which 220 died.


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              411 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                             The News of the World

                               December 19, 1999

Masked fatty attack terror

LENGTH: 51 words



   POLICE are hunting an obese, goose-pimpled sex fiend-starkers except for a
white mask-who tried to drag a woman off her horse on a lonely bridle path.

   The wobbling pervert leapt out of bushes near Ramsden Heath in Crays Hill,
Essex. The rider fought him off. Police appealed for witnesses.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 1999 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              412 of 412 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           December 20, 1999, Monday

THUGS IN BUS ATTACK TERROR;
 GANG TURNS ON MAN HELPING DRIVER

BYLINE: Lisa Tolfts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 275 words


A PASSENGER who tried to help a bus driver who was being attacked was beaten up
and robbed himself when a gang of youths turned on him.

The 26-year-old Long Lawford man got off a Stagecoach bus from Rugby in Holbrook
Road, Long Lawford, on Friday evening.

He saw the driver of another Stagecoach bus lying in the middle of the road,
being kicked and punched by teenagers.

They had pressed an emergency button on the outside of the bus and the driver
had got out to tick them off.

The gang started punching and kicking him and when the Good Samaritan rushed
over to help the victim three of the youths turned on him, punching him in the
face and kicking him in the stomach as he lay on the ground.

The bus driver ran back to his vehicle, drove 100 yards up the road and opened
the back door.

The man managed to escape the youths and ran to the bus. The two men drove into
town and reported what had happened at Rugby police station.

The youths stole the 26-year-old man's wallet in the attack.

Mick Rossiter, assistant operations manager at Stagecoach in Rugby, said today:
"We sent out extra staff on that run on Friday night because we are very
concerned about this incident.

"The safety of our staff and passengers is our first priority and we'll be
speaking to the police today to see what we can do to prevent this type of
incident happening again."

Mr Rossiter said the bus driver was shaken by the incident but otherwise unhurt.
His rescuer had a gashed eye and needed hospital treatment.

Bus passengers and anyone else who saw the incident are asked to call Rugby
police station on 01788 541111.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Coventry Newspapers Limited



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 500-911
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:03:26

