



Download Request: Select Items: 1001 - 1500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:22:34
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               February 13, 2003

Blunkett gives MPs mixed messages on terror threat;
MINISTER SAYS RISK OF ATTACK IS SERIOUS BUT 'IT'S SAFE TO CARRY ON FLYING'

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 446 words


HOME Secretary David Blunkett sent out mixed messages on the terror threat
today, telling travellers it was safe to fly from Britain's airports despite the
continuing danger of an attack.

Mr Blunkett said the threat was "real and serious". However, the public should
be "alert but not alarmed".

He told MPs his son had earlier today flown from Manchester Airport and added:
"I certainly would assure everybody it is safe to use our airports and they
should not be frightened to do so."

Sources close to him later confirmed the danger to the UK was currently as great
as at any time since 11 September 2001.

Mr Blunkett had been hauled before the Commons to answer an emergency question
from his Tory opposite number Oliver Letwin about the heightened state of
security at Heathrow and elsewhere.

Mr Letwin said the Government was taking the right security measures to deal
with the heightened threat from al Qaeda but accused the authorities, including
Whitehall, of not being properly prepared in general to protect the public.

He also accused ministers of putting out "conflicting" messages about the scale
of the threat - a charge Mr Blunkett angrily denied.

The public must be given the information needed to protect themselves, Mr
Blunkett said, adding: "That is what we have done. But we must also avoid
frightening people unnecessarily or causing the kind of economic and social
damage that does the work of the terrorists for them."

Mr Blunkett was forced to come to the Commons to answer the Tory question by
Speaker Michael Martin just hours after he had bluntly rejected Opposition calls
for a debate on security arrangements - and just after it was revealed that an
RAF Nimrod spy plane was patrolling over Heathrow. He said he would not "provide
a running public commentary from the despatch box" on security issues.

The Nimrod, equipped with sophisticated communications and surveillance
equipment, is providing a supporting role for the police and troops, the
Ministry of Defence said.

It is believed to be involved in communications between the two forces.

Mr Blair, after talks with Australian premier John Howard at Downing Street
today, said: "We cannot and should not start disclosing details of everything we
know or may know. It's important we take every precaution we can."

On the third day of the heightened state of alert, security remained tight at
Heathrow and other key London sites.

.MPs of all parties today tabled a Commons motion demanding a vote before any
military action takes place in Iraq. The 57 signatories included Labour MPs,
Tories and members of the Lib-Dems, SDLP and Plaid Cymru.


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               February 13, 2003

Airports On Red Alert For Terror Attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 2 1302WESTDP2F4airpo

LENGTH: 482 words


Armed police patrols were stepped up at West airports yesterday as it emerged
Ministers had contemplated shutting Heathrow over the terrorist threat.  Britain
was on top security alert after reports that al-Qaeda operatives have smuggled
rocket launchers into the country.

The biggest security operation Britain has ever seen was being mounted by police
and the Armed Forces involving 2,000 people in the capital alone.

Troops were spending a second day patrolling Heathrow after intelligence reports
of an al-Qaeda plot to down a jet in a missile attack.

The Army was also guarding other potential London targets on the first day of
the Muslim festival of Eid, fears over which triggered the warnings.

Last night, the US also took its security precautions to a new level by
deploying missile launchers in Washington DC following a CIA warning that
al-Qaeda could strike against this week in the US and the Arabian peninsula.

Anti-aircraft missiles and Sentinel radars were placed at strategic sites around
the American capital and US fighter and helicopter patrols stepped up.

Apart from Heathrow, Britain's second-biggest airport Gatwick, the London
Underground and the City were being protected.

In the South West, armed police patrols were fortified at Bristol International
Airport, where there was a round-the-clock guard, and Cardiff and Bournemouth.
Only Exeter airport admitted it had no armed police presence.

Bristol airport drafted in four extra armed officers, taking the total to six.
They will guard the terminal building and apron area which is used by some four
million passengers a year.

Inspector Andy Jackson of Avon and Somerset police said: "Ever since September
11, armed officers have made regular visits to the airport to patrol the area.

"The difference now is that armed officers will be there 24 hours a day, seven
days a week, patrolling the terminal and the surrounding area.

"This is not because of any specific threat made in relation to Bristol but
because of the general increase in threat to airports across the country." Home
Secretary David Blunkett revealed shutting Heathrow was considered but ruled out
because it would have handed victory to the terrorists and been "catastrophic"
for Britain's trade and economy.

Tension was heightened by a tape which appeared to confirm Osama bin Laden is
still alive - and is urging revenge attacks on Britain.

Labour chairman John Reid was forced into a humiliating climbdown after he
claimed the threat was on the same scale as September 11.

The minister snapped after reporters questioned the high-profile security,
insisting: "This is about a threat of the nature that massacred thousands of
people in New York." But Dr Reid later claimed he was "misinterpreted" and had
only been trying to make clear it was not a PR stunt to boost support for war on
Iraq.


LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           February 14, 2003, Friday

STARS IN THE NEWS: KELLY CANCELS OVER TERROR ATTACK FEAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 58 words


SINGER Kelly Osbourne pulled out of last night's NME awards because she is
terrified of a terrorist attack on Britain.

The 18-year-old star was due to perform at the event and to present an award at
next week's Brits.

But she has decided not to fly to the UK after her father Ozzy and mother Sharon
told her they feared for her safety.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The News of the World

                               February 16, 2003

JEMIMA KHAN IN NEW KNIFE ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Lucy Panton

LENGTH: 255 words


    TERRIFIED Jemima Khan called in police after a knife-wielding maniac turned
up on her doorstep threatening to kill her.

    Last week's scare was the SECOND attack on the wife of Pakistan cricket
legend Imran Khan in seven months.

    After dialling 999, mum-of-two Jemima (below) barricaded herself inside her
plush Pounds 1.5million London home as the crazed teenage girl tried to break
in.

    But when the cops arrived minutes later, the attacker had fled.

    Detectives are now studying dramatic video footage of the incident, captured
on the Khans' elaborate security system just before noon last Saturday.

    A police source told us: "This young black girl was screaming through the
intercom demanding to be let in. She had a blade and was making death threats."
The drama brought back chilling memories. Last July a knifeman wearing a
balaclava broke into the house in Fulham.

    Jemima hid in a bedroom with her children-four-year-old Kasim and
six-year-old Sulaiman-while her bodyguard fought off the intruder.

    The minder ended up with a wounded hand and slashed clothes but the crook
fled and was never caught.

    He entered the house using keys, believed to be Jemima's spare set. But
police were baffled how he got hold of them. Afterwards Jemima, 29, said she had
no idea who the man could be or what he wanted.

    "It's a mystery," she said, playing down speculation that the incident was
connected with her husband's political work in Pakistan where he founded the
Movement for Justice party in 1996.


LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               February 16, 2003

Iraq crisis: Terror crackdown: Threat of suicide bomb attack on UK intensifies

BYLINE: Martin Bright and Jason Burke

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 612 words


THE police and security services are bracing themselves for a 'spectacular' by
rogue suicide bombers on British targets.

Senior police officers now believe the threat of attacks by al-Qaeda militants
on Britain has increased following the release of a new audiotape from Osama bin
Laden reminding militants of the duty of martyrdom.

One senior police source told The Observer : 'They have a stated aim that they
will send suicide terrorists and we know they have the capability.'

The authenticity of the tape, broadcast by Middle East TV station al-Jazeera on
Tuesday, was verified yesterday by American analysts. In the tape, bin Laden is
heard to say: 'We stress the importance of martyrdom attacks against the enemy.'
A second tape circulating among militants includes a pledge by bin Laden to
become a martyr himself.

The new alert follows a week of high tension that saw tanks and troops stationed
at London's Heathrow airport after a threat to shoot down an aircraft with a
shoulder-held missile launcher.

The source confirmed the military response was a blunt instrument 'more about
the deterrent effect than catching anyone'.

Tony Blair ordered a 'ring of steel' around Heathrow airport after the cabinet's
emergency Cobra committee received intelligence from MI5 of an attack to
coincide with the annual Muslim Hajj pilgrimage at the end of the festival of
Eid. Anti-terrorist police told the Prime Minister they could not guarantee
public safety using covert techniques such as surveillance and raids on known
suspects.

Operations were thought to have focused on the thousands of pilgrims travelling
to the Muslim holy city of Mecca that passed through Heathrow last week, which
the intelligence services believed may have provided cover for a lone al-Qaeda
operative to slip into Britain, or for the transfer of explosives and weapons.
British Airways has three flights a week between Heathrow and Riyadh and
Emirates Airlines three a day.

A security sources dismissed speculation last night that the military response
at Heathrow was staged for publicity purposes: 'It should be absolutely clear
that the threat is serious, real and ongoing. The mere fact of the deployment of
troops to Heathrow was a significant signal. The response was proportionate.'

This weekend, the military presence at Heathrow was scaled back as police and
intelligence services shifted the emphasis to suicide attacks.

There is clear evidence that al-Qaeda has been trying to organise a suicide
attack in Britain for some time. Last year documents seized from Islamic
militants arrested in Spain revealed that Algerian militants had planned a route
into the UK through Ireland. One had drawn a sketchmap of Europe marking a
projected itinerary through Germany and Ireland to London where, he wrote, he
hoped to commit an act of 'martyrdom' for 'the greater glory of God'.

Bin Laden himself has repeatedly called on 'the youths of Islam' to sacrifice
themselves, most recently in a 53-minute statement issued in the last two weeks
and circulated among journalists.

Some experts warn that the recent focus on spectacular attacks involving
high-tech weaponry risks were diverting attention from the threat from so-called
'freelance' operators.

Yesterday American officials appeared to be drawing back from their strong
warnings earlier in the week. Washington had received no new intelligence in
recent days to suggest an imminent attack, they said.

One American former counter-terrorist official said last week's alerts had been
based on false information given deliberately by an al-Qaeda prisoner held in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                           February 16, 2003, Sunday

CAPITAL TERROR ATTACK GLOOM ALERT... Ken Livingstone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 196 words


A SUCCESSFUL terrorist attack on London is inevitable, the city's mayor Ken
Livingstone warned last night.

He claimed that while every counter-terrorist measure was being taken to thwart
potential attacks, one small group would inevitably achieve their aim.

'There is clearly a danger but I don't believe that al-Qaida has the resources
to carry out the sort of massive co-ordinated attack it managed on Washington
and New York,' he said.

'We are much more likely to see a small group of people succeed with something
like a car bomb with devastation in one small area, like the IRA have done in
the past.'

But he accused Labour Party chairman John Reid of being alarmist and going 'over
the top' when he compared the seriousness of the threat with that of September
11.

Britain last night remained on terror alert after a series of alarms and arrests
amid heightened airport security.

A total of nine suspects have now been arrested near airports in the north and
south of England. Six of the suspects were subsequently released from arrest
under anti-terror laws - five later handed over to the Immigration Service.

Bin Laden plan - Page 10

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      February 17, 2003, Monday Edition 1

UK is at high risk of terror attacks

BYLINE: By Andrew Woodcock, The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 311 words


   Al-qaida terrorists have a "substantial presence" in the UK, and the risk of
attacks remains "high", the most senior police officer in England and Wales said
yesterday.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens, the former Northumbria Police
chief constable, dismissed suggestions a hoax was to blame for the terror alert
which has seen tanks at Heathrow and heightened security at other airports
around the country over the past week.

The Government's emergency planning committee, codenamed Cobra, was meeting
daily to assess the level of threat and did not believe the danger of terror
attacks was over, said Sir John.

He confirmed that there were concerns at the highest levels that ground-to-air
missile-launchers had been smuggled into the UK and could be used in attempts to
shoot down aeroplanes taking off or landing at British airports.

And he said there was a "generalised threat" that people operating within London
would use whatever means they could find to bring mayhem to the capital.

While most security work to thwart the terrorists had to go on in secrecy, Sir
John said some successes had been achieved, with a total of 72 arrests over
several months for terrorist offences.

Asked how many al Qaida cells were operating in the UK, he told BBC1's Breakfast
with Frost: "It is very difficult to know, but we do know that there is a
substantial presence and we are taking action in relation to those.

"The threat is still high and we have still got an operation at Heathrow. What
we do every day is analyse the threat and meet that threat with whatever
resources necessary."

Sir John was speaking as it was reported that a man arrested at Gatwick Airport
on Thursday with a live grenade in his baggage was known to authorities in his
native Venezuela and had visited "sensitive countries" within the past few
months.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Essex

                               February 17, 2003

Essex: County gears up for terror attack

LENGTH: 275 words

DATELINE: Essex


Essex is ready for any kind of terrorist attack and is testing its emergency
planning procedures.

Recent large-scale tests have included the mock release of nuclear radiation
material at Bradwell, a hijacking at Stansted and a blazing ferry approaching
Harwich port.

The drills are all part of developing a strategy to ensure the county can deal
with all kinds of disasters - terrorist or otherwise.

A spokesman for the county police force said: "We have detailed contingency
plans for a wide range of eventualities.

"We carry out these tests with a host of other organisations to give us answers
about our effectiveness to emergencies.

"Because of our own testing process of real-life situations we were able to cope
with the Afghan siege at Stansted.

"Each year, Essex Police, along with the fire and ambulance emergency service,
Essex County Council and the Army, act out crisis scenarios from radioactive
spills to burning ferries, airliner hijackings to oil refinery explosions.

"Essex's proven experience on hijackings has been called upon across the world.
We have had services from Bermuda and Australia come to the county to learn
about our procedures."

Rosanna Briggs, principal emergency planning officer at Essex County Council,
said: "We are constantly updating our procedures. September 11 has made everyone
think much more and it certainly extended our thinking as to the different kinds
of emergencies we could face."


Published Monday, February 17, 2003

Brought to you by the Evening Echo
(http://www.thisisessex.co.uk/essex/about_this_site/hosts-echo.html)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           February 18, 2003, Tuesday

LETTERS: YOUR VIEWS SECURITY: The army were called out at Heathrow after fears
of a terrorist attack

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 952 words


The voice of Coventry and Warwickshire

Terrorism may ruin airport plans

DURING 2002, you kindly published my letters saying that plans for new or
expanded airports in UK could be greatly affected by the resurgence of
well-organised terrorism.

I suggested that the Department of Transport Consultation Document had dismissed
the attacks of September 11 far too easily. I asked: "After New York, Bali and
now Mombassa, where next?"

We have the army out at Heathrow and an evacuation at Gatwick. Again, evidence
of specific targeting of air traffic. Will it ever stop?

My wife and I will continue to travel as often as possible, but I was a career
Diplomatic Service officer, and soon lost count of the threats received. Others
may be less used to such things, and be put off travelling.

So more-realistic air traffic forecasts need to be made, and plans for airport
expansion anywhere in the UK looked at very carefully.

And if that kills off the idea of a massive airport near Rugby, the sooner the
better.

May I also remind any intending travellers of the Foreign Office website,
www.fco.gov.uk, which gives excellent advice.

David Skinner, Whitefield Close, Westwood Heath.

Cabbies should steer clear of bad manners

I READ with interest your article: Cabbies learn the right way to do it (Evening
Telegraph, February 14) - my experience of cab drivers is not very good.

When I require a taxi, I wait at home at the appointed time, and it either
arrives 15 minutes too early or 15 minutes too late, and then all I get when it
arrives is a blast on the horn!

I was a cabbie in the 1970s and I would arrive at an address at the given time,
get out of my cab, walk to the door and ring the bell. I would then ask if there
were any bags to be taken and also hold the cab door open for the customer.

This may all seem a bit much to today's cabbies, but believe me lads, it works
great.

You get treated really well!

I recently had heart surgery and when a cabbie arrived to take me to Birmingham
Airport for my holiday, I asked if he could take my suitcase to the cab.

He sat in his seat and grunted. Then begrudgingly got out and more or less threw
my case in the back. Needless to say he didn't get a tip!

Let's hope this new training in customer care and service works.

Mr B Adams, Langley Croft,Tile Hill North.

Tackle the 'bullies'

I DO believe the England manager or a future England manager should stand up to
the "bully boys" of the Premier League, ie. Alex Ferguson, Gerard Houllier and
Arsene Wenger.

I believe also it's time that we stopped foreign players swamping the English
Premier League because until we do that it will never give a chance for English
youngsters to come through.

Mr H Brain,

Bennetts Road South, Keresley.

Design for life

ROBERT SINCLAIR'S positive proof of evolution (Your Views, February 13) will go
the way of all previous missing links.

In six months' time, in an obscure corner of a science or nature magazine, an
expert will state that the facts were misinterpreted and this wasn't the
hoped-for evidence after all.

My watch needed a watchmaker, my car needed a manufacturer and my house needed a
builder - they didn't get here by chance.

Even the most simple of life forms are infinitely more complicated than my
watch, car or house, so they must have needed a designer.

Paul Murray,

Nod Rise, Mount Nod.

Cause for alarm

MAY I ask why West Midlands Passenger Transport Executive does not install smoke
detectors on its buses, then if the drivers have no sense of smell, they should
be able to hear the smoke alarms, which would be wired to their cabs, and inform
inconsiderate passengers to put their cigarettes out by using a microphone.

Then I and many other passengers will not choke, cough and splutter every time
we travel to work and back.

Malcolm Strong, Treherne Road, Radford.

Give us a sign

WITH reference to Mrs K McGrory (Your Views, February 8), I agree with all her
comments.

When are we going to get signs saying Welcome to Radford, Whitmore Park and the
rest of the districts of Coventry? Or do we only encourage people to go to
Foleshill?

J Lynes, Rotherham Road, Whitmore Park.

Bush and Blair are blind to the world

I AM extremely concerned about the continuing rhetoric of Tony Blair and George
Bush over the Iraq problem.

I believe Tony Blair is continuing to run ahead of public opinion and has now
lost contact with what the majority feel in this country. Saturday's march
clearly demonstrated this gap.

I believe Iraq does have a case to answer and has been violating UN resolutions,
and something has to be done. Israel, Pakistan and many more have also been
breaking resolutions, but the US chooses to ignore them.

If the Bush-Blair partnership continues with a blindness to world opinion to
prepare for this war, this does beg the question whether the position of the UN
counts for anything.

Their actions have the potential to change the global order forever without any
thought as to what that may bring about. The USA is trying to act as though it
is always right.

I do believe Tony Blair is being genuine, but to lead us down this road without
Parliament being allowed to have a free and open debate is to carry control too
far.

Saturday's march must surely demonstrate that he and his government must allow
UN inspectors more time.

Politicians should be stating their positions and working for solutions. I would
hope that locally the church community could unite to arrange a public meeting
to debate this subject.

Cllr Jerry Roodhouse Liberal Democrat group leader, Bracken Drive, Rugby.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          February 19, 2003, Wednesday

BRITONS NOT READY' FOR TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 274 words


EMERGENCY services' ability to respond to a major terrorist attack in the UK
have not been sufficiently improved since the September 11 attacks in the United
States, experts claimed yesterday.

An official report into an exercise which simulated a jet crash into the
Bradwell-on-Sea nuclear power plant in Essex last year found confusion and
slowness in the emergency response. A review is now under way into whether there
should be more exercises to test defences at other nuclear sites around the
country, according to BBC Radio 4's File on Four.

Experts said the emergency services need more equipment and training and the
public need better information on what they should do in the case of a disaster.

Professor David Alexander, disaster expert at the Royal Military College of
Science, told the programme: "I don't think progress has really been rapid
enough." Independent nuclear consultant John Large told Radio 4's Today
programme that nuclear power stations were vulnerable. "The basic premise of
nuclear power plant safety is that they are protected against accident or
natural hazards, not a terrorist attack." Power plants were obviously attractive
targets for those wishing to cause terror, said Mr Large. "The psychological and
economic impact of an attack on a nuclear power station would be very great
indeed."

The Government needed to keep the public informed, so that they would be able to
help themselves in the case of an incident, he said. "In the US, the public are
being told about the scale and type of incident to be expected from a terrorist
attack. "In Britain, there is a kind of silence.".

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               February 19, 2003

WE'RE STILL NOT PREPARED FOR A TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: By Adrian Lee and Rachel Baird

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 312 words


BRITAIN is still not properly equipped to deal with a major terror attack, it
emerged yesterday.

Despite the wake-up call of September 11, emergency preparations are hampered by
excessive secrecy, red tape, out of date planning and lack of funding, experts
warned.

It was also revealed that Government plans to cope with a disaster, such as a
chemical weapon or "dirty bomb" attack, will not be ready until at least the
autumn.

Exercises designed to test the nation's ability to cope with a terrorist
incident have also exposed alarming gaps.

Emergency planners told the Daily Express yesterday that they urgently need an
extra GBP 42million to prepare for the worst. At present they would not be able
to cope with a September 11-style disaster involving vast casualties.

The burden of dealing with a terror attack falls largely on local authorities
but there is growing resentment over poor funding and Government secrecy.

John Kelly, county emergency planning officer for Oxfordshire, said: "We get
half the money we did during the Cold War." The county cannot afford to buy
vehicles for its emergency team, or satellite telephones which would be crucial
if land and mobile systems crashed.

A Cabinet Office document leaked to the Daily Express shows the Government has
been aware since November of Britain's inability to cope with major incidents.

Emergency planners said they were disappointed by the delay in introducing civil
defence preparations. Proposals will not now be published until the summer and
may not become law until after September.

Tony Blair yesterday promised the British public that he was doing everything
possible to protect them in the event of a large-scale terror attack.

Admitting the task was "difficult", the Prime Minister said: "We are spending
GBP 100million preparing ourselves in readiness."

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               February 19, 2003

LEADER COLUMN; GIVE CIVIL DEFENCE THE FUNDS TO FIGHT ANY TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 207 words


WE LIVE in daily fear of a terrorist attack on the scale of September 11 yet,
incredibly, civil defence is still being starved of funds.

Emergency planners have told the Express that another GBP 42million is needed to
prepare adequately for the worst and fears are growing that proposals for a new
emergency policy will be left out of this year's Queen's Speech. The country
could be dangerously underprepared for a biological, chemical or nuclear attack.

Tony Blair has been accused of showing a preference for foreign affairs over
domestic matters but as he steels himself for possible war against Iraq, safety
at home is one area he cannot afford to overlook. The Tories have suggested
appointing a designated minister, such as the Homeland Security Chief employed
in America, but such a co-ordinating figure will be just another bureaucrat
unless the necessary funding is in place.

Chancellor Gordon Brown was quick to set aside GBP 1.75 billion of taxpayers'
money to pay for a war against Iraq. The Government must be just as energetic in
finding the necessary means to train and equip our emergency workers to cope in
the event of a large scale terrorist attack.

Otherwise, Britain may count the cost in bodybags.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          February 20, 2003, Thursday

9/11 CONVICT;
 15 YEARS FOR MAN IN FIRST TERROR ATTACK TRIAL

BYLINE: ALLAN HALL IN HAMBURG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 560 words

HIGHLIGHT: IMPASSIVE: Motassadeq at trial yesterday


THE first terror suspect to stand trial for his role in the September 11 attacks
was jailed for the maximum 15 years yesterday in Germany.

Moroccan Mounir El Motassadeq, 28, an electrical engineering student, was
convicted of being an accessory to the murder of 3,066 people in the New York
and Washington atrocities.

The terror suspect was known as The Book-keeper for organising the terror cell
that included the lead hijacker Mohammed Atta and two other suicide pilots.

He is the only man so far to stand trial for involvement in the terror attacks.

During the three-and-a-half month case, he was painted as the accountant of the
terror cell, handling the finances of his fanatical friends who studied in
Hamburg.

After they went to the US to learn to fly jets of the type they would turn into
flying bombs, he tried to cover their tracks.

Motassadeq sat impassively as the verdict - the maximum possible term demanded
by prosecutors - was read out in court. His lawyers said he would appeal.

He was also charged and convicted of being a member of al-Qaeda and supporting
the illegal terror cell. He denied all the charges, but admitted knowing Atta
and spending time in a training camp in Afghanistan run by Osama bin Laden.

Motassadeq painted himself as a man in the wrong place at the wrong time and
said he had no part in the plot which changed the world. The Moroccan admitted
looking after some of the financial affairs of the group, but said he did so
merely as a friend.

Prosecutors said he acted as their financial adviser, even receiving power of
attorney over the bank account of suicide hijacker Marwan al-Shehhi.

When asked by presiding judge Albrecht Mentz if there had been any indication
from Atta of his plans, Motassadeq replied: "Suicide attacks were never
discussed. In my opinion, that is not a solution. Suicide bombers are not
martyrs. Even in war, there are rules." He added: "Perhaps Atta was of a
different opinion. But Atta never spoke about any attacks." There was little to
link Motassadeq other than circumstantial evidence - but this was enough for the
five German judges to bring in a guilty verdict.

Some witnesses testified he was as radical as the rest of the group, often
talking of jihad and hatred of Israel and the USA.

The most dramatic testimony came from FBI Special Agent Matthew Walsh.

His overview of the September 11 attacks formed a key part of the case against
Motassadeq as it injected terror into dry proceedings, such as Atta's bank
account.

There was also testimony from relatives of victims. American Steven Push - whose
wife Lisa Raines was a passenger on the hijacked plane that struck the Pentagon
- was accepted as a co-plaintiff in trial. He is now considering a civil suit
against Motassadeq.

Mr Push said: "Having the families involved presents a human face to the court.
If he is guilty, it may help assure a conviction and a maximum sentence."

Motassadeq went to Germany to study in 1993. Two years later, at the technical
university of Hamburg-Harburg, he met Atta. Motassadeq also met his wife Maria,
a Russian convert to Islam, in Hamburg.

His 15-year sentence means he will serve a minimum of 10 years with 15 months
off for time already spent in custody. Lawyers say, with remission for good
behaviour, he could be out in 10 years.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               February 21, 2003

WAR ON TERROR I'LL VANISH ONCE US ATTACKS AND YOU MUST TAKE ORDERS FROM MY SON,
TYRANT TELLS GENERALS AS PICTURE PROVES HOW FRENCH LEADER HELPED HIS NUCLEAR
PLANS; SADDAM GETS READY TO RUN

BYLINE: By Gabriel Milland and Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 772 words


SADDAM Hussein plans to "disappear" once America attacks Iraq, leaving his
generals to fight without him.

He has told his commanders that when war breaks out they must take their orders
from his younger son Qusay.

Only Qusay, the dictator's heir, will know of Saddam's whereabouts, according to
the influential London-based Arabic daily AlHayat.

Saddam "will certainly not be in the presidential palaces or the bunkers that
the Americans are preparing to bomb", well-placed Iraqi sources told the
newspaper.

The revelation came as London and Washington disclosed plans to press ahead next
week with a second UN resolution authorising war to rid Iraq of its terror
arsenal.

But a vanishing act by the Iraqi leader - like that of Osama Bin Laden - could
be a nightmare for US and British forces.

President Bush will be desperate to have the dictator killed or captured to
prove that he has been defeated - and so ensure that Iraqi forces will become
too demoralised to battle on.

Hiding places are likely to include ordinary flats or houses or even trucks,
with Saddam wearing traditional clothes.

He will go underground with only a small number of bodyguards and will never use
the telephone, Al-Hayat said.

If he needs to communicate with aides he will send them a letter, which must be
destroyed immediately after it is read.

Saddam used his hide-and-seek tactics against the US-led alliance in the last
Gulf War.

When American intelligence thought it had pinpointed Saddam, there was the
bombing of an underground shelter in Baghdad, with the deaths of hundreds of
innocent civilians.

Last night the US and Britain signalled their determination not to be deflected
from their drive towards tough action.

The US is expected to table a new resolution to the UN Security Council next
week, probably before chief weapons inspector Hans Blix delivers his next report
on Friday, seeking authorisation for military strikes.

The disclosure came after President Bush spoke on the telephone with Tony Blair.

The text is not likely to be debated and voted on until after Dr Blix makes his
next report a week today. But British Government sources made clear that March
14, the date being proposed by France for a yet another report, would be too
late.

The vote that could trigger war could come in the first week of March. The
resolution may simply state that Iraq is in "further material breach" of its
obligations.

Mr Bush is said to be hopeful of securing the nine votes required to pass the
resolution, and avoid any member putting down a veto. In a speech in London
today, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw will say the UN's 12-year stand-off with
Iraq over its weapons of mass destruction is "entering its final phase".

Mr Straw's speech is also expected again to emphasise the "moral case" for
removing Saddam's arsenal following yesterday's joint statement from the
Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams and the Roman Catholic Archbishop of
Westminster Cormac Murphy-O'Connor, in which they voiced doubts about the "moral
legitimacy" of a war and calling for more weapons inspections.

Yesterday the White House voiced concern over reports that Iraq had not followed
through on promises of co-operation with the inspectors already there.

Independent UN officials in Baghdad revealed that no Iraqi weapons scientist had
agreed to a private interview with inspectors since February 7. The UN also had
not received any new documents about past weapons programmes, despite Baghdad's
promise - hailed by Mr Blix in his report to the UN last week - to establish a
commission to seek them out.

It could mean that Mr Blix's next report to the UN is much harsher on Iraq.

However, allied war plans are still facing difficulties. American defence chiefs
yesterday stepped up pressure on Turkey to become the springboard for 40,000
troops in any war with Iraq.

The Turks are demanding Washington double its offer of GBP 4billion as
"compensation" for invading Iraq through its territory.

Failure to secure Turkish bases could divert US troops to Kuwait and force it to
launch a 500-mile sprint northwards to take up positions in northern Iraq.

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said: "Obviously the more assistance one
gets, the easier it is. But nonetheless, it's do-able and there are
workarounds."

Meanwhile yesterday, Tony Blair learned he has the backing of Baroness Thatcher.
Paul Johnson, right-wing commentator and friend of Lady Thatcher, wrote in the
Spectator magazine of Mr Blair's "courage, fortitude and foresight" in backing
America over Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               February 22, 2003

LEADER RICHARD & JUDY; WE MUST BE PREPARED FOR TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: RICHARD & JUDY

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 380 words


ANY lingering suspicion that Tony Blair's personal authorisation to station
troops and tanks at Heathrow last week was a public relations stunt to garner
support for war can be laid to rest here.

On Wednesday I spent an hour with terrorism expert Sally Lievesley. She advises
governments and big corporations on counterterrorism. She has no political axe
to grind and, believe me, the lady knows her stuff.

I asked her how close she thinks the threat specifically from Al Qaeda is, and
she was unequivocal. "They're here, and they're ready, " she told me.

Sally went on to say that the pattern of arrests of suspected terrorists in
Britain and in Europe in recent weeks has a sinister significance. She believes
they point to attempts to launch a string of simultaneous attacks in a number of
cities here. For example, we might wake up to find that London, Manchester and
Birmingham have been hit within minutes of each other.

So how encouraging is the number of suspected terrorists who are now in custody?

Sally says that our security services are playing a blinder but that the problem
is that Al Qaeda has real strength in depth - once one cell has been mopped up,
another can take its place within days.

Some of the organisation's "sleepers" have been living here under cover since
the early Nineties. And as for the type of attack we can expect, she told me
that conventional explosives are most likely to be used. Just as the IRA
specialised in sniper and in particular mortar technology, Al Qaeda operatives
are very good at making big bombs.

There is a bit of good news - they almost certainly lack the expertise to set
off a so-called "dirty" nuclear weapon, although they could steal radioactive
components from, say, hospital machinery and create a localised explosion.

In Sally's view, the other big risk is of biological or chemical contamination
and she says the authorities will have to be ruthless in isolating places that
suffer an attack.

So will these things come to pass? Absolutely, says Sally.

And how about when? Any day now, according to her.

Which is why she believes the Government must follow America and Australia in
issuing guidelines on what we should do when it happens.

After talking to her, so do I.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               February 23, 2003

Iraq crisis: Cold War bunkers back in business: Companies are going underground
to escape terror attacks, Martin Bright reports

BYLINE: Martin Bright

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 648 words


BUSINESSES across Britain are scrambling to bury key computer information,
inclu-ding electronic files and customer credit card details, in blast-proof
bunkers underground in case of terrorist attacks.

Demand tripled for space in former Ministry of Defence nuclear bunkers in the
first two months of the year, according to one specialist company that provides
protection from nuclear, biological and chemical attack for sensitive company
data.

AI Digital, which runs The Bunker, a former RAF Air Defence radar station near
Sandwich in Kent, is converting several other sites around the country to cope
with the demand for secure data centres, and will open a bunker in the old US
air base at Greenham Common in Berkshire next month. The 'platinum service' for
terror protection costs pounds 36,000 a year.

'Do you put your computers in a great big glass building that's vulnerable to
attack, or put them in a bunker that's completely protected? To me it's a
no-brainer,' said Paul Lightfoot, operations manager at The Bunker.

Such is the heightened level of alarm that blue-chip companies based in
potential target areas such as the City and Canary Wharf have issued staff with
gas-masks, while multinational bank JP Morgan has issued all 85,000 staff
worldwide with a terror pack, including gas-mask, light stick and
water-purifying tablets.

Senior executives are determined to learn the lessons of 11 September, when a
third of companies in the World Trade Centre went bust because they had failed
to make contingency plans for a potential disaster.

The 60,000 sq ft RAF Sandwich bunker was built during the Cold War to withstand
a nuclear blast and still keep the RAF flying. The sheep grazing on top of the
old military installation give it an air of rural calm, but the coils of barbed
wire that surround the base warn that security is still a priority.

Underground, the bunker looks like a set from an episode of Dr Who , except here
the walls are made of two-metre-thick reinforced concrete rather than plywood
and are lined with rubber expansion sheets to cope with a powerful nuclear
explosion.

Visitors reach the inner core of the data centre through a set of five-ton blast
doors painted panic-red by the company. They then pass through gas-tight doors
into a high-pressure airlock and finally to the cool air at the heart of the
bunker where hundreds of racks of computer hard drives sit where once were row
upon row of radar screens. 'Business continuity', as this branch of the security
industry is called, is a multi-billion-dollar concern.

Business development manager Nikki Plummer said: 'All of a sudden companies are
waking up to the fact that there is a major threat to London and that most of
their IT systems are based in the capital. In the last two months they have
begun to think that perhaps that isn't such a good idea.'

Others in the corporate security business believe that companies are
over-reacting to the threat of terrorism. Rod Fountain, of business continuity
specialists Survive, said: 'The business world is very confused. Companies are
going out and buying gas-masks for staff to bolster confidence because they
can't think what else to do. The threat of terrorism is a reality but companies
should really be planning for more serious everyday threats such as fire and
theft.'

The Bunker has 20 staff and its own sewage filtration plant. Underground tanks
can store 300,000 litres of diesel and an equal quantity of water if needed.

Civil servants responsible for emergency planning will meet this week to discuss
how to brief the general public on dealing with any terrorist attack that could
follow military action in Iraq. A Cabinet Office spokesman said: 'It's not clear
yet how advice will be issued nationally.'

Focus special, pages 17-19

Nick Cohen, Terry Jones,

Comment, page 31


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           February 23, 2003, Sunday

Every home to get terror attack guide

BYLINE: Adam Nathan

SECTION: Home news; News; 5

LENGTH: 885 words


HOUSEHOLDERS are to be given guidance on how to survive in the face of a
catastrophic terrorist attack.

The guidance, which ministers intend to reach all 24m homes in Britain, will
include a shopping list of items that should be bought before a possible
biological, chemical or nuclear strike.

Senior civil servants will this week meet emergency planning officers to discuss
methods of disseminating the information without causing panic.

The move follows a similar initiative in America, which sparked a nationwide
rush on emergency supplies including batteries, water canisters and duct tape.

Military planners fear any possible American-led assault on Iraq could spark
terrorist counterattacks.

Before finalising its own advice, the Cabinet Office has published guidance from
the Australian government on the website UK Resilience.

The Cabinet Office said: "It is not clear yet how advice will be issued
nationally. In the meantime, local authorities are entitled to adapt the
Australian guidance."

The 12-page manual, entitled Preparing For the Unexpected, says households need
to prepare mentally for an emergency. It advises people to learn basic first aid
and to familiarise themselves with local authority evacuation plans.

"Power supplies may be cut. You may be injured and others may be injured or
deceased. You may be separated from each other and will need to decide how
family members will stay in touch," it says.

All households, it further advises, should "prepare an emergency kit and keep it
handy". The kit should include a battery-operated radio, a torch, candles and
matches, medical, toiletry and sanitary supplies, spare clothes and sleeping
equipment and strong plastic bags for clothing, valuables and documents.

Other items recommended are clean water in sealed containers, packaged food to
last three days, a portable stove or barbecue, duct tape and "plastic sheeting
to seal doors and windows".

The information is similar to advice recently issued in America that caused
panic buying. British shops said last week that they, too, were running short of
some items. "There has been a definite surge in demand for the 20-litre water
and petrol cans," said Julian Hogg of Anchor Supplies in Ripley, Derbyshire.

In an emergency - which in Britain would most likely be announced by a
combination of sirens and radio broadcasts - people are advised to stay indoors
and watch television. "Check on your neighbours, especially those who are
elderly or disabled or who may not understand English well," the document
advises.

Different responses are given for specific emergencies. In case of an explosion
people are advised to "get out of the building as quickly and calmly as possible
(or) shelter under a sturdy table until the situation has stabilised. If trapped
in debris, rhythmically tap on a pipe or wall so rescuers can hear where you
are."

In the event of a chemical release: "Attempt to get upwind of the contaminated
area. Stay inside and close and lock all windows; use duct tape to seal all
cracks around the doors and seal over windows with plastic and tape."

Instructions are given in how to cope emotionally. "Shock, disbelief, fear and
anxiety, horror, depression, anger and grief are natural reactions," the
guidance states.

"Avoid continuously watching disturbing footage on television" and instead
"focus on your feelings and talk calmly about them with family or friends".

Eric Alley, of the Institute of Civil Defence and Disaster Studies, compared the
advice with that issued during the cold war: "The last time this happened was in
the 1980s with the threat of nuclear war. It seems the Cabinet Office is so
pushed nowadays that it is having to use Australian guidance."

The government's civil contingency planning has already come under attack from
the Conservative party, which has compiled a dossier on its shortcomings. News
that a new civil contingencies bill may not become law until summer 2004 has
also prompted criticism.

Whitehall sources said last week that the bill was progressing slowly "because
it is so important". One official said: "Many of the elements that will be
contained in the bill are already happening and we do not feel we need to rush
into anything."

The same sources down-played any suggestion that legal arguments about the scope
of new laws - which include proposals that would allow the police and army to
cordon off and quarantine large areas - may be causing legislative delays.

The government is, however, considering altering the Data Protection Act in
order to set up a proposed early warning system. The legal changes would give it
access to telephone directories so that all households could be warned of an
attack by phone.

EMERGENCY TIPS

* Learn some basic first aid and enrol on a course if necessary

* Find out about local emergency plans. Check your building for evacuation plans

* Prepare an emergency kit and keep it handy. You'll need a radio, a torch and
some matches

* Use duct tape to seal cracks around doors and plastic sheeting to cover
windows

* In a chemical incident, move to an upwind location to avoid contamination

* Take turns listening to the news but don't watch too much television as it may
frighten you.


LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               February 23, 2003

FOCUS HOW FRIGHTENED SHOULD WE BE?; TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: By Lucy Johnston Health Editor and Tim Shipman Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  11

LENGTH: 1672 words


THE horror of a terrorist attack is a distant threat to most people, but for
fashion model Sarah Richards it is a chilling memory that refuses to die. The
only British victim of the sarin nerve gas attack in Tokyo has more reason than
most to fear the looming prospect of an Al Qaeda strike in the UK.

Sarah, 22, from north London, was travelling to a fashion shoot on that fateful
day in March 1995 when she felt an intense pain across her eyes.

Seconds later she was gasping for breath, fell to the floor and could not see
properly.

She became paralysed as her body absorbed the lethal gas which killed 12 and
injured more than 5,000.

Speaking exclusively to the Sunday Express, she recalled: "All my muscles
stopped working. I lost the use of my limbs and couldn't get up."

Sarah was lucky. She was rescued by another passenger who had not been near the
chemical. But the arson attack on the underground in the South Korean city of
Daegu last week highlights the potential threat from even a lone terrorist.

So how likely is it that an attack could happen in London or another major
British city? Islamic terrorists have been linked to anthrax attacks in the US,
the discovery of the deadly chemical ricin in north London and bomb blasts in
Kenya where an Israeli jet came under rocket attack.

MI5 has linked Al Qaeda units in London to a plot to release poison gas on the
Tube. And the UN Atomic Energy Agency warns that terrorists could make so-called
"dirty bombs" out of radiation sources used for decades in hospitals, factories
and laboratories.

Many of these radiology labs contain lethally large amounts of cobalt 60,
strontium 90 or caesium 137.

Frank Barnaby, a nuclear consultant who used to work at the Aldermaston atomic
weapons plant in Berkshire, condemns our lack of radiation monitoring as
"disgraceful". He said: "The fear of radioactivity makes a dirty bomb a
terrorist's dream."

Last month Tony Blair said the danger was "present and real and with us now"
with "huge" potential.

The recent security alert at Heathrow airport prompted Labour Party chairman
John Reid to warn that the nature of the threat on London was now on the "scale
of the September 11 attacks".

Worst-case scenarios attract headlines even though an attack is less likely than
many perils of day-to-day life. A senior security source said:

"Intelligence is all about risk analysis. You've got more chance of being run
over by a bus than being blown up, but a bus can only kill one person at a
time."

The growing fears about terrorist atrocities are partly a product of the
successes of the security services.

"There are more cells out there, " the source said. "But the more we find out,
the more leads it gives us.

The growing number of warnings is partly down to there being a clear and present
danger, but it is also because there has been a great deal of success in getting
to grips with the enemy networks."

One of the biggest fears is that terrorists - including those based in Iraq -
may possess smallpox sold or stolen from the former Soviet Union, which
maintained a 20-ton stockpile throughout the 1970s. Al Qaeda's interest in
preparing a variety of chemical weapons has also been revealed in documents and
manuals recovered in Afghanistan.

"Cyanide has surfaced a number of times surrounding Al Qaeda's chemical
programme, " said Magnus Ranstorp, an expert in international terrorism at the
University of St Andrews in Scotland. Leaked videotapes revealed a chemical
agent, thought to be cyanide, being tested at a training camp in Afghanistan.

Iraqi defectors and former UN weapons inspectors have reported that Saddam
Hussein has smallscale hidden caches of chemical and biological weapons. Other
experts have pointed to the possibility of water and food contamination and
suicide bombings on planes or nuclear power stations.

But less scrutiny has been given to the huge practical problems of carrying out
such an attack.

Professor Malcolm Dando, Professor of International Security at the University
of Bradford, said terrorists were more likely to cause mass disruption than mass
destruction. "I don't think the risk of biological terrorism causing mass
casualties is very high at all as it's extremely difficult to prepare biological
agents to cause mass casualties, " he said.

"People can do things like poison salad bars and poison doughnuts and cause
difficulties for hundreds of people, but the kind of scenario in which a million
people are killed by a biological agent would require a major state programme
and I don't think the terrorists have that capability at present."

He added: "If there's one place I would have concerns about it would be in
low-technology, high-impact attacks on agriculture as shown by the devastation
of the foot-andmouth outbreak."

Dr Jez Littlewood, research fellow at the University of Southampton, who is
helping with a major investigation into Britain's response to a terrorist
attack, agreed.

"To create and unleash weapons of mass destruction is incredibly difficult.
Terrorists may be able to create crude bombs but the problem is getting them to
their target and disseminating them effectively.

"Even the Tokyo attack only killed 12 people. The most likely risk is a
biological or chemical attack that will kill scores not hundreds." A security
source said: "The value to a terrorist of a chemical, biological or nuclear
attack is not that it would kill thousands of people, but that it would create a
unique panic.

"The most recent Al Qaeda attacks in Bali and Kenya were old-fashioned bomb
blasts, using tactics borrowed from the IRA or other terrorists who have been
around for decades. In some ways they are more difficult to stop, but Britain
has more expertise in dealing with those sort of attacks than anywhere else."

While the exact nature and scale of the threat needs to be kept in perspective,
there are still concerns that the Government is not as well prepared as it might
be.

Government-funded research by university experts, which will be finished in
August, has already exposed a lack of co-ordination between central, regional
and local government.

Dr Littlewood emphasises the need for proper training of key health officials to
recognise symptoms of chemical and biological attack.

GOVERNMENT health officials have now teamed up with a leading UK healthcare
company to produce a computer disk which shows people what they should do in the
event of a terror attack. The disk, the first of its kind, is available in
Waterstones nationwide. For more details visit www. clinnix. com.

But even that will not put Sarah's mind at rest. She already knows what it is
like to face death at the hands of terrorists.

"I am scared to go on the Tube, " she said. "It seems so easy to release poison
on the Underground or into our water system. It's the most awful thing that can
happen to anyone."

Sarah's name has been changed to protect her privacy.

Anthrax & smallpox THE BAD NEWS: One gram of dried anthrax spores could contain
10million lethal doses. Tiny airborne spores could be introduced into
air-conditioning systems. Saddam Hussein may have 25,000 litres of anthrax.
Smallpox is one of the most frightening. It is highly contagious and
disfiguring. If the sufferer is not vaccinated, death will occur in about 30 per
cent of cases.

THE GOOD NEWS: Anthrax is easily treated with antibiotics.

Terrorists couldn't make anthrax or smallpox themselves - they would have to buy
it from rogue states or hire renegade scientists.

Particles in anthrax powder must be of a certain size to ensure they lodge in
the lung.

Ricin THE BAD NEWS: One of the deadliest poisons known to man, ricin is easily
produced from castor beans and everyday chemicals by anyone with hot water,
caustic soda and a coffee grinder. A 1mg pellet the size of a pin-head is enough
to kill a man. It is 6,000 times stronger than cyanide. There is no cure.

THE GOOD NEWS: A large amount of ricin would have to be used to make a viable
weapon of mass destruction. The amount of ricin spray necessary to kill half the
population in a 100-squarekilometre area is about four tons.

The best way to administer ricin - through an aerosol - makes it better for
assassinations than a terror attack.

Transport & power THE BAD NEWS: A biochemical attack in a confined space such as
the Underground would cause mass panic. Trains in tunnels would act as pistons,
pushing contaminated air out through extractor fans all over the city. Computer
hackers could choose to turn off power or water supplies, open dams or empty
sewage into rivers.

THE GOOD NEWS: Airborne poisons would not spread quickly in a Tube carriage,
particularly since London trains are not airconditioned. Tighter airport
security makes a re-run of September 11 unlikely. Even putting cyanide in the
water supply would require huge amounts to be effective.

Dirty bomb THE BAD NEWS: Conventional explosives, such as dynamite are packaged
with radioactive material that scatters when the bomb goes off. BBC2's Horizon
programme last month highlighted how the break-up of the former Soviet Union has
made it easier for terrorists to acquire radioactive material. A blast in
central London would see parts of the capital being abandoned for years until
they were decontaminated. The devastation would be greater the higher in the sky
the bomb was detonated, as these pictures show.

THE GOOD NEWS: Radiation experts say the greatest danger is panic and
disruption, not lethal doses of radiation. High-grade and medium-grade
radioactive material in the UK is securely stored. A bomb made from a
lower-grade rod of cobalt 60 used for food irradiation would only contaminate
people within a half-mile radius with a dose similar to a whole-body X-ray - or
the same amount of radiation a person gets from natural sources in an average
year. Breathing through a damp handkerchief would reduce the risk further.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           February 24, 2003, Monday

Cantor chief feared for future of broker Terrorist attack led clients to renege
on transactions, reports Helen Dunne

BYLINE: By Helen Dunne

SECTION: Pg. 30

LENGTH: 644 words

HOWARD Lutnick, chief executive of Cantor Fitzgerald, feared that the money
broker would not survive the terrorist attack on the World Trade Centre that
destroyed his company's offices and killed 658 employees.

His fears, which are revealed in a new book, arose because many clients of
Cantor Fitzgerald who had bought securities from the money broker on the morning
of September 11 did not go through with the transactions.

Mr Lutnick, who lost his brother Gary in the attack, arrived just after the
first plane hit the World Trade Centre. He was late because he had taken his
five-year-old son Kyle to his first day at kindergarten.

Cantor Fitzgerald was forced to borrow billions of dollars from its bank, JP
Morgan Chase, to pay for the securities which it had bought on behalf of those
clients who reneged on the deals. At one point, the money broker, which had
capital of $350m, owed $70 billion.

Mr Lutnick claims that this was the main reason behind the decision to stop
paying the salaries of the victims just days after the attack. When widows
attacked him publicly for that decision, Mr Lutnick received threats and
poison-pen letters and his wife Allison feared for his safety. Many people who
had already donated to a Cantor Fitzgerald relief fund wrote to request the
return of their cheques.

He was also forced to defend his donation of $1m to the families of the victims
at a series of emotional meetings. "Every dollar I had in the world, except for
three million, was in Cantor Fizgerald, and the bank owned it," he explains at
one point. "So I took one and sent it to the relief fund."

Mr Lutnick adds: "I understand that it's difficult for some of you to grasp that
it's not just about one or 10 or 50. It's 700. And 300 living employees cannot
pay the salaries of 700 people." The bonuses of all the victims were paid,
however, and Cantor Fitzgerald is giving the victims' families 25pc of its
profits for five years and providing health insurance for 10 years.

Mr Lutnick admits that he was amazed that the Bond Market Association decided
the bond markets should resume trading on September 13.

Initially, the association had wanted to open the market the day after the
attack. "Think about it," says Mr Lutnick. "No one knew who was alive and who
wasn't. The banks were pushed out of their buildings. The mail wasn't being
delivered."

He was determined that Cantor Fitzgerald would open for business as quickly as
possible because he feared that if it did not, the broker's competitors would
take advantage and its dominant position would be lost for ever. However, Mr
Lutnick was forced to close unprofitable divisions and desks where the death
tolls were too great. "I was fighting my ego, because a part of me wanted to
keep it all and show that we could turn it all around - save everything," he
admits. "But I knew what the risks were - that if we tried to save everything,
we could lose the whole company."

The biggest challenge in opening was to get the technology in place. Trading
systems were established in London in just 24 hours so Cantor Fitzgerald could
trade the US Treasury bond market as soon as it opened.

Ironically, on the first day, Cantor Fitzgerald was almost brought down by
kindness, so many clients wanted to show their support by trading with the
brokers. Its equity division, which lost all but 16 staff, had so many trades on
its first day that Mr Lutnick feared it would overwhelm the makeshift back
office. However, somehow the brokers coped and managed to pay down enough of the
debts to satisfy JP Morgan Chase. "It was absolutely unbelievable. In the
saddest time of my life, I was jumping for joy as if I'd just won the lottery.
Cantor could survive - would survive. It was a miracle," he says.

On Top of the World, by Tom Barbash, is published by Headline, price pounds
18.99

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               February 24, 2003

Government To Give Tips On Surviving Terror Attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 5 2402WESTDP392gover

LENGTH: 433 words


Every household in Britain is to get information and advice on the best way to
survive a major terrorist attack, it emerged yesterday.  The news was revealed
as war with Iraq loomed ever closer, and the British and American campaign to
get Saddam Hussein to disarm peacefully reached its final stages.

Senior civil servants will meet local authority emergency planners, including
delegates from the West, this week to discuss the best way of preparing the
country for a catastrophic terrorist attack.

Fears are growing that a war in the Middle East could lead to reprisals against
Britain backed by Saddam.

And advice on the best way to cope with a chemical, nuclear or biological strike
has already been posted on the Government-backed UK Resilience internet site.

Much of the advice harks back to the 1960s and the height of the Cold War, when
people were shown films on the best way to cope in the event of a nuclear
attack.

Officials in Britain are desperate not to see a repeat of the panic that has
gripped America in recent weeks, resulting in stocks of emergency supplies,
including water containers, first-aid kits and batteries, being sold out.

Financial institutions in the City of London have already issued staff with gas
masks and makeshift terror packs. The bank JP Morgan has handed out 85,000 gas
masks to its workers, many of whom are based in London's Canary Wharf.

And firms have been buying up space in Cold War bunkers to store vital data and
records.

AI Digital, a company that specialises in company security, has converted a
former RAF bunker in Kent into a secure storage unit.

Demand has been so high the company is already looking at several other sites,
including the former Greenham Common US air base in Berkshire.

The Cabinet Office is basing its public information advice on guidance produced
by the Australian Gover nment.

People are being told to store important documents in a safe place and to take
lessons in first aid.

Householders are also being advised to learn how to switch off power and water
supplies in their home after a terrorist attack.

Buildings should be checked for escape routes and people should prepare an
emergency kit complete with a battery-powered radio, first aid supplies, torch
and food.

People are being advised to have duct tape handy so they can seal their windows
and doors in the event of chemical warfare.

And the authorities are even warning people not to watch too much disturbing
footage on the TV during an attack because it could increase feelings of stress
and fear.


LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 25, 2003

Paisley attacks 'terror charter' in peace deal

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 265 words


David Trimble, the Ulster Unionist leader, was accused last night of having the
names of about 100 on-the-run IRA terror suspects who could evade imprisonment
as part of a peace process deal.

As British and Irish government officials and pro-

agreement parties worked on a package to restore the Northern Ireland Assembly
and power-sharing executive, Ian Paisley, the Democratic Unionist leader, called
on his community to reject "the terrorist charter" that was being drawn up.

The North Antrim MP also claimed that Mr Trimble was "up to his neck in the
preparations for a deal", with details about a proposed amnesty for on-the-run
paramilitaries.

"Whether released on licence or whether there is some form of judicial process,
the fact is that the IRA will have achieved what it wanted for some of its
leading terrorists. All this has been accomplished with the help of the pushover
Unionists such as Trimble," said Mr Paisley.

As the Sinn Fein leaders Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness held fresh talks with
government officials in London yesterday, Mr Trimble denied that there would be
a "troops out" element to the final package and insisted that his Ulster
Unionist Party would only deliver its verdict once the full details emerge.

He said: "There will not be demilitarisation, there will be normalisation. Those
who think we are going to see some sort of 'troops out' are wrong. There will
not be troops out."

Mr Trimble also insisted that the most important thing was whether republicans
were going to decommission and stop paramilitary activity.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               February 25, 2003

Kuwaitis 'Plan Terror Attacks'

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 236 words


Three Kuwaitis have been arrested on suspicion of planning terrorist attacks on
US forces in the country. The interior ministry said they were found in
possession of weapons and ammunition. They were identified as Ahmed Mutlaq
al-Mutairi, 29, Abdullah Mutlaq al-Mutairi, 32, and Musaed Horan al-Enezi, 28.
They are suspected of planning terrorist attacks on American forces based in
Kuwait ahead of a possible US-led attack on neighbouring Iraq. A ministry
official said police arrested the men on Sunday after having them under
surveillance for some time. He said the two al-Mutairis were brothers and that
the three men were Muslim extremists who followed the principles of al Qaida
leader Osama bin Laden.  Protest arrests OPPOSITION protests to a possible war
in Iraq sparked more arrests yesterday after further demonstrations against
conflict took place across the country. At least eight people were arrested
during a Greenpeace protest outside the headquarters of the Exxon Mobil oil
giant in Leatherhead, Surrey, police said. Esso said a minimum of 50 petrol
stations around the country were also forced to close after activists sabotaged
pumps. Greenpeace alleges that Esso and its parent company, the Exxon Mobil
Corporation, supports "war and environmental crimes". The company refuted the
Greenpeace claims, and said it deplored any action which threatened the safety
of staff.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2003 Western Morning News

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 26, 2003, Wednesday

IRAQ CRISIS: TREASURY MAY BE GIVEN POWER TO RUN MARKETS AFTER TERRORIST ATTACK;
 THE CITY

BYLINE: PHILIP THORNTON The commander of a British Challenger tank heading into
the Kuwaiti desert yesterday Oleg Popov/Reuters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 435 words


THE TREASURY could be given extraordinary power to take over the running of the
City of London's financial markets in the event of a terrorist attack or natural
disaster.

Ministers would be allowed to suspend the Stock Exchange and other markets, and
prohibit banks and investors from trading in the wake of a major catastrophe.
The proposals are in a Green Paper published yesterday. The Treasury emphasised
that legislation was only one option.

The paper is the result of discussions between Whitehall in the City in the wake
of the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001, which led to the voluntary
closure of stock markets in London and New York.

The Treasury said this power would not be available in the case of a financial
crisis and that it would not have sought to use it after 11 September. It says
that the Government is considering tabling legislation to be used in "extreme
circumstances" such as a terrorist outrage, a weather disaster or a computer
virus that threatened to bring the City to a halt.

The Bill would contain two new powers: to suspend existing financial obligations
and to close stock exchanges to prevent investors trading.

Under the first power, the authorities would be allowed to suspend the need for
investors to settle their deals, to allow them to concentrate on efforts to
rebuild their business.

The "direction power" would be used if the exchanges, which are private
companies, were worried about the legal consequences if they decided to close.

Launching a consultation exercise, Ruth Kelly, the Financial Secretary to the
Treasury, said: "The 11 September attacks on the United States showed the
problems that physical disruption on such a scale brings for the financial
system, as exemplified by the four-day closure of the New York Stock Exchange.
Financial services play a vital role in the UK economy. This makes it
particularly important to be sure that we have good arrangements in place to
maintain the financial system's resilience during major operational disruption."

The Government said it was aware that legislation could have disadvantages, if
it led to uncertainty over how the authorities would use their new powers or led
private-sector organisations to make less rigorous preparations for dealing with
problems themselves.

"These possible disadvantages - and the primacy of the private-sector role -
lead the Government to believe that any new legislation should only be used in
extreme situations - and never in a purely financial crisis - and only with
support from the private sector," the Green Paper said.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               February 27, 2003

How Well Could We Cope With A Terrorist Attack?

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 14 2702BATHCH393howwe

LENGTH: 1021 words


There has been mounting criticism of 10 Downing Street - and not just from the
vast majority of the British public who are opposed to war in Iraq without UN
backing.  Scaremongering has become a useful weapon for the anti-war brigade.
And those national papers which have launched their own crusade by running
stories yesterday about Saddam Hussein's latest weapon - a remote control
aeroplane capable of dropping biological or chemical weapons.

American scientists are said to have found that the aircraft are capable of
flying more than 300 miles and may well have been smuggled into America, Britain
and other European countries.

There are also fears that, when the first rockets are fired on Baghdad, the
Iraqi dictator will launch his own attacks on Europe and the USA.

But whereas the US Government, and even the Canadian and Australian premiers
have authorised public information leaflets explaining how to prepare people,
their families and homes against such an attack, there has been criticism of the
lack of such information from the British Government.

Searching the internet throws up little to help - other than outdated publicity
from the 1950s and '60s.

Gordon Hector, emergency manager for Bath and North East Somerset Council, said
the material was still good advice - if Britain is ever subjected to an all-out
nuclear attack.

But he added: "This is a different time and the sort of terrorism and attack we
are talking about here are totally different.

"We have to look at terrorist attacks in all their forms - biological and
chemical weapons, and dirty bombs.

"The message from the Government is that we are under attack, but the message on
their website says otherwise. The American Government is telling its public what
to do.

"I am concerned our Government has not done enough to inform the public." Mr
Hector said his office had received calls in recent weeks from worried members
of the public asking about a range of precautions, such as where the nearest
nuclear bunkers are - something the emergency manager said would be of no use.

But he added the best advice was printed about four years ago and was still
valid - to go in, stay in and tune in.

He said local BBC radio stations would be taken over by the Government and used
purely as a public information broadcast system.

"It's safer at home with everything sealed up but it would depend on the
substance used and the amount of time it has been active, " he explained.

"No home can be sealed completely airtight but it would afford people some
protection.

"The sort of terrorists we have dealt with in the past have at least usually
telephoned in advance with a warning. If we are unlucky we have 100 casualties
and 20 or 30 dead.

"If you look at some of the factions these threats are coming from they can use
chemical or biological devices, capable of infecting drinking water. In that
sort of case we are talking about thousands of casualties.

"Our infrastructure is not capable of dealing with that. The general public has
to be able to help itself and has to have the right information and advice in
advance.

"I personally think the Government has been slow to do this." However, a Home
Office spokesman said there was public information available, although he added
that the Government was continuously looking to improve its public information.

He said the website www. resilience. info provided all the information needed.

"There is considerable information on there from both the Government and the
police and we have also issued advice in the event of chemical, biological,
radiological or nuclear attack, " a Home Office spokesman added.

The site does have this information, but it is confusing to navigate around and
is nowhere near as user-friendly as the American and Australian information.

"We accept there are other ways to communicate with the public - that's crucial,
" he added.

"There has been a lot of publicity about what the American and Australian
Governments have done.

"We have made no formal decisions on the matter but we are looking at it and
will use what we feel are sensible and appropriate methods to communicate
information and advice." And he said a major concern was that, by publishing
similar information, the Government could make the mistake of inducing a high
level of public hysteria.

"The difficulty in this whole area when you are talking about terrorist threats,
is that there is only a certain amount you can go into without starting to do
the job of the terrorists for them, " he said.

"We have to make sure we are making people alert, not alarming them.

"We have always said if there is ever a need to initiate special warnings we
will obviously alert members of the public as soon as possible." Don Foster,
Bath MP, said the public information was not good enough but he said his major
concerns lay with the inability of local emergency services to adequately deal
with terrorist attacks because of under-funding and 'ludicrous' Government
advice.

"If you look at our emergency planning, compared to the United States, we are
light years behind, " he said.

"My biggest concern is the people charged with making the arrangements for
emergency planning - the local authority emergency planning officers - have just
had their budgets cut in real terms by around 3.5 per cent, at a time when they
have to take on ever-increasing duties." He added the Government guidelines to
the emergency services, that they should use "paddling pools, buckets anbd
sponges" in the event of a chemical or biological attack were ludicrous.

"We are telling our emergency services they should go round knocking on doors
asking if people have a paddling pool and borrowing sponges from local garages -
it's ludicrous, " he added.

"I'm less concerned about the lack of information because, if it comes to a
chemical, biological or even nuclear attack, it will be down to our emergency
services to solve most of the problems.

"The crucial matter for me is the state of preparedness of our emergency
services."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          February 27, 2003, Thursday

TERROR ATTACK PLAY OUTCRY;
 LOCKERBIE THEATRE SHOW SCRAPPED

BYLINE: ALISON DAYANI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 315 words


A CONTROVERSIAL play about the Lockerbie bombing due to be staged in the Black
Country tonight has been cancelled amid claims it was inappropriate with war
looming against Iraq.

Organisers of Lockerbie 103, which questions the guilt of the convicted Libyan
terrorist bomber, have been forced to scrap the show at Wolverhampton
University's Arena Theatre at the 11th hour after it was virtually shunned by
the public.

The newdramawas to be put on in the city for the first time as part of a
national tour. But ticket sales were abysmal and it was decided to cancel
because it was felt the show was clearly unpopular at a sensitive time in the
Middle East. Tory Wolverhampton Councillor John Mellor, a former senior Sandwell
superintendent, criticised the production, saying it was in poor taste.

Coun Mellor declared: 'I don't think it is a good time to come out with a play
like this when British soldiers are on their way to a possible war in Iraq.

'It is inappropriate, especially as the play suggests the person convicted of
the Lockerbie bombing was not guilty, even though it was decided by an
international court.'

Organisers, including director Rachel Ashton, said they decided to pull the plug
on the performance due to lack of interest with poor ticket sales.

They also said problems accommodating a large set were behind the decision.

Libyan Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed Al Megrahi, who was convicted of murdering the 270
passengers on board the Pan Am Flight 103 in 1988, is currently languishing in a
Scottish jail.

The play, written by acclaimed Scottish novelist Des Dillon, focuses on a
miscarriage of justice but caused outrage when it opened in Scotland two weeks
ago.

Bromsgrove GP Dr Jim Swire, whose 24-year-old daughter Flora was killed when the
plane exploded over Lockerbie, was understood to have seen the play at Coventry
last night.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                               February 28, 2003

Terror attack ordeal of boy on crutches

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 262 words


A TEENAGER was knocked off his crutches and pinned to the ground in a terrifying
street robbery at a Sheffield skateboard park.

But the attacker was caught when he rode past on a bicycle as his victim gave a
statement to police minutes later.

Asylum seeker Ali Ahmed, 17, picked on a boy also aged 17 who had broken his
foot in Devonshire Green skate park last August.

Ahmed kicked his crutches away, pinned him to the ground and stole £30 from his
pocket, Sheffield Crown Court heard.

As the victim was explaining what had happened to police at the skate park, he
spotted Ahmed riding past on a bike.

Ahmed originally denied the robbery but was found guilty after opting for trial
at Sheffield Crown Court.

The court heard Ahmed, of Spital Street, Burngreave, was an Ethiopian refugee
who had previous convictions including one for indecent assault.

Defending, Mark Barlow said the Home Office confirmed Ahmed's refugee status and
that he had been granted indefinite leave to stay.

He said the nasty offence, in August was largely down to Ahmed being left to his
own devices when his father visited his Ethopian homeland.

Judge David Bentley QC said the robbery was unpleasant and cowardly.

He told Ahmed: You have been in this country for some time, this country
welcomed you and gave you refuge. The way you've repaid it is with a succession
of serious offences.

In 2001 you were sent away to custody for 12 months for a very serious and
unpleasant offence of indecent assault.

Unhappily things have got no better since then.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The NorthEast

                               February 28, 2003

Firefighters ill equipped for terrorist attack

BYLINE: Lindsay Jennings (feedback@nne.co.uk)

LENGTH: 546 words

DATELINE: The North East


Firefighters tonight claimed they were ill equipped to deal with a terrorist
attack and slammed planned equipment and training as a "Dad's Army" operation.

Union leaders said they had yet to see any extra equipment promised as part of a
(GBP) 56m Government cash injection to help fire crews cope with worst case
scenarios almost 18 months on from September 11.

The claims came as a leaked fire service document revealed only basic
preparations for a chemical or biological attack.

The advice document, issued by Cleveland Fire Brigade back in September, says
that at present there are "no mitigation facilities and equipment available
nationally" and that fire crews will have to rely on existing equipment.

It also describes ad-hoc plans to construct mass decontamination showers
consisting of two fire engines parked together with a ladder across the top to
which hose reels are attached and used to spray water onto casualties.

Last night Steve Gregg, regional chairman of the Fire Brigades Union (FBU), said
"It's absolutely shocking the state of defence preparedness. We're extremely
concerned. "The only equipment we've been given is a couple of bottles of
disinfectant, sponges and mops.

"We've been given no specialist equipment or training yet. It really is a Dad's
Army operation." John Eldridge, editor of Jane's Nuclear, Biological and
Chemical Defence, said: "Most emergency services are relatively poorly equipped
to deal with the kind of terrorism we are now looking at.

"I'd imagine that the Government thinks these decontamination showers are going
to be used for civilians but they are designed to deal principally with people
who are already in protective suits.

"They are quite limited and only of any use against liquid or solid matter not
vapour hazards. "There are also other issues to consider such as will you have
the exact space needed to construct one of these things?"

Alan Blacklee, Cleveland branch secretary of the FBU, said firefighters were
"very, very concerned" at the present state of affairs.

He said: "At the end of the day if someone dropped a dirty bomb on the Riverside
Stadium at Middlesbrough we're the people who will get there first and we
haven't got the training or the equipment to deal with that amount of
decontamination.

"It's more than a year and a half since the terrorist attack on September 11 and
nothing has been done."

Last night the office for Deputy Prime Minister, John Prescott, said that 190
purpose built decontamination units and 4,000 extra gas tight suits would be
rolled out to brigades across the country as part of the (GBP) 56m investment by
the late Spring.

But it comes in the face of a Government emergency working party which, in the
aftermath of the Twin Tower terrorist attacks in America, put the cost of
providing specialist equipment, extra staff and training to deal with a
terrorist strike at around (GBP) 280m.

A spokesman for John Prescott's office said the (GBP) 56m injection for the fire
service included 80 new vehicles and that the investment was "an on-going
process".

Cleveland Fire Authority chairman, Middlesbrough Coun John Jones, said: "If the
unions themselves have any worries we want to debate and discuss that with
them."

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 March 1, 2003

MY SHAME IF I LET TERRORISTS ATTACK BRITAIN

BYLINE: George Pascoe-Watson Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: WAR ON TERROR

LENGTH: 603 words


    Why Blair won't yield

    TONY Blair yesterday vowed never to yield before Saddam Hussein, saying: "I
could not live with myself if Britain was attacked."

    The PM made his most passionate defence yet of his plans for war on Iraq,
and said he would never repeat the mistake of Hitler appeaser Neville
Chamberlain.

    Mr Blair dismissed Saddam's latest offer to destroy banned missiles as
"game-playing".

    And he said he could not stand back and do nothing knowing there was a
growing threat of a nuclear or germ attack on a British city.

    The PM told delegates to a Labour conference in Swansea: "There is a fear
that one day these new threats of weapons of mass destruction, rogue states and
international terrorism will combine to deliver a catastrophe to our world.

    "They could launch a strike on a a British town or city.

    "The shame of knowing that I saw that threat day after day and did nothing
to stop it -I cannot and I will not do that.

    "No matter how hard the decision, I will try to do what I believe is right
for our country.

    "Do not think if we walk away now we will cease to be a target.

    "If we desist in the disarming of Saddam and leave him in charge of those
weapons, having faced him down, does anyone really think it will be the last we
hear of those weapons?

    "Will the terrorists respect us and back down and fold up their machinery of
death and disappear?

    Lesson

    "If we fail this, the first test of our determination to deal with these
issues, it will not be the end. It will only be the beginning."

    In a stirring speech, Mr Blair said Tory PM Chamberlain was wrong to have
signed a deal with Hitler hoping to avoid war in Europe.

    Chamberlain came back from a meeting with the German dictator waving a piece
of paper he claimed signalled "peace in our time."

    Mr Blair said the world should have learned the vital lesson by now. He
added: "In 1938 Chamberlain was a hero and he did it for the best of motives.

    "He strove for peace because he was a good man, but he made the wrong
decision.

    The lesson we learned then was that if you are confronted by a threat and
you walk away the threat only grows.

    "At a later time it has to be confronted again but in a far more deadly and
dangerous form."

    Mr Blair was heard in silence for the bulk of his speech, but won applause
when he told how he had ordered military action to change regimes in Sierra
Leone, Kosovo and Afghanistan.

    Earlier, the PM joined Spanish leader Jose Maria Aznar in Madrid and vowed
not to let Saddam off the hook. Mr Aznar warned that failing to confront Saddam
would give a blank cheque to other brutal dictators.

    Mr Blair added: "If we do not take a stand now we will deal with it after
some terrible and devastating tragedy." The PM shrugged off the rebellion by
anti war Labour MPs, saying it was his duty to show leadership. And he rejected
Saddam's missile offer, which came just hours before chief UN weapons inspector
Hans Blix delivered a key report.

    Mr Blair said: "The moment I heard Saddam Hussein was saying he would not
destroy the missiles was the moment I knew he would announce just before Dr
Blix's report that he intended to destroy them. This is not a time for games.
Saddam knows what he has to do."

    PALESTINIANS could get their own state in months under a joint US and EU
plan to calm Arab anger over a war against Iraq.

    Israel and Palestine would have to recognise each other's right to exist.

    Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat would be axed and Israel would give up
settlements outside its borders.

    The Sun Says -Page Eight


LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             March 3, 2003, Monday

DRIVER'S TERROR AT ROAD RAGE ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 125 words


A WOMAN was chased and confronted by a van driver during a road rage attack in
Rugby.

The white van drove bumper to bumper with the woman's maroon Renault Megane
along the gyratory system, Bilton Road, Bloxam Gardens and Seabroke Avenue at
about 7.25pm on Friday.

She was forced to pull over when the van struck her car.

The van driver wound down his window and started throwing unknown objects at the
car. He then drove off towards Lawford Road.

The van driver is white, aged 30 to 40, of stocky build and has a round face. He
was wearing a light T-shirt.

A Warwickshire Police spokesman said the woman had no understanding of why she
was targeted.

"She wasn't hurt but was clearly very shaken," said the spokeswoman.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             March 3, 2003, Monday

WAR OF TERROR: ALLIES ATTACK IRAQI AIR DEFENCE SITES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 200 words


BRITISH and American pilots patrolling no-fly zones over Iraq are already
attacking targets which could be used to defend the country.

Senior Pentagon officials said aggression against Iraqi weapon sites, including
strikes on ground-to-ground missile systems and multiple launch rockets, was
stepped up in recent days. Such weapons systems would be used against coalition
troops invading Iraq.

However, a spokesman at the Ministry of Defence in London said last night that
there had been no change in strategy and that pilots continued to open fire only
if they were targeted by Iraqi forces.

US and British warplanes - dubbed the "ravens of evil" by Saddam Hussein - have
patrolled the northern and southern zones since the end of the 1991 Gulf War.

Up to 100 RAF Tornados and USAF F16s were involved in one raid on an airfield in
western Iraq.

l The destruction of Iraq's Al-Samoud 2 ballistic missiles was expected to
continue today, despite a warning from Baghdad that the process would be halted
if the US threatened to go to war.

Meanwhile, talks were continuing over Iraq's claims to have eliminated its
anthrax and VX nerve gas weapons after the 1991 Gulf War.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             March 4, 2003, Tuesday

WEB GUIDE TO TERROR ATTACK SURVIVAL

BYLINE: Ian Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 244 words


THE Government is to launch a special website showing how to survive a chemical,
biological or nuclear terror attack.

Home Secretary David Blunkett also announced plans for a massive exercise aimed
at preparing London for a "catastrophic" terrorist attack.

The capital will be brought to a standstill during the "next few weeks" so
police, troops and emergency services can practise handling a major terrorist
incident.

The new site - at www.homeoffice. gov.uk/terrorism - will be operating shortly -
and Blunkett said: "The public have a right to have their concerns addressed and
to know as much as possible about the work that goes on behind the scenes to
protect them.

"I am committed to putting as much information as I can in the public domain,
without compromising security."

The London terror attack simulation is expected to be the biggest ever staged in
Britain.

It will test the emergency services with an exercise on the scale of the
September 11 attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York.

Police will cordon off a large section of London around a simulated Ground Zero'
disaster zone.

The drill will test how the emergency services deal with mass evacuations and
decontaminations.

Separate exercises are planned to test Britain's ability to withstand attacks on
flood defences and the national gas supply.

Blunkett also said that the Government had stockpiled over 20million doses of
smallpox vaccine.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2003 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            March 04, 2003, Tuesday

Mock terrorist attack to be staged on Tube

BYLINE: By Philip Johnston Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 673 words

A CATASTROPHIC terrorist attack on the London Underground will be simulated this
month as part of the Government's planning against the threat from chemical,
biological and nuclear weapons.

A leak of the details last night, however, caused confusion over the proposed
exercise and officials said a new scenario might have to be devised.

The plan envisages an attack on Bank station in the City of London, a major
interchange where several Tube lines converge. An exercise is due to take place
on Sunday, March 23, with about 100 volunteers playing dead and injured
passengers.

The exercise is intended to replicate the effects of a chemical attack by
terrorists on a train stopping at the Central Line platform, which is closed
after the derailment at Chancery Lane in January.

As details of the test became known last night, however, the Home Office
indicated that the date and location could be changed. "It is not an effective
way to test contingencies if everyone knows where and when it is going to
happen," said one official.

The exercise is one of several bing planned to test Britain's civil
contingencies planning amid complaints that the Government is not doing enough
to protect or inform the public. Separate drills are planned to test Britain's
ability to withstand attacks on flood defences and the national gas supply.

David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, said the programme would cover the ability
of the emergency services to deal with mass evacuation and decontamination.

The Government said the exercises did not reflect any imminent threat, but were
part of the necessary planning against the possibility of such an incident.

The risk of a so-called "dirty bomb", a radioactive device detonated by
conventional explosives, is considered remote. But if such a blast took place in
the City, as the planned exercise envisages, it would cause massive disruption
to the economy by virtually closing down the banking and financial system.

The emergency services also need to prepare for a chemical attack, which
requires a different response, or biological terrorism involving the spread of a
virus such as smallpox.

The exercise was disclosed by Mr Blunkett as he gave a comprehensive assessment
of the country's preparedness. Criticism that contingency planning was
unco-ordinated and ineffective was repeated yesterday.

The BBC reported that a government adviser was unhappy with preparations for a
possible smallpox attack and that not enough vaccine was available. Only 20
million doses have been bought, whereas the American government has ordered
enough for the entire population.

Mr Blunkett dismissed the criticism during a Commons debate to renew special
anti-terrorist powers. He told MPs that more than half the population was
covered by the post-war vaccination programme, though experts say the immunity
lessens over time. He denied that cabinet ministers had been given special
protection against smallpox. "Politicians, including myself, have not and will
not seek vaccination against smallpox unless those vaccines are made readily
available to the population as a whole," he said.

Mr Blunkett said that by the end of the year, there would be 14 new Civil
Contingency Reaction Forces, each comprising 500 Territorial Army volunteers,
available to support the police in the event of a September 11-style attack.

The Government is preparing a new anti-terrorism website to give "clear,
accessible" information to the public. Mr Blunkett said: "I understand the
public thirst for information. We are not always able to give the public and the
media answers to all of their questions, simply because some of that information
would be useful to terrorists who could use it to threaten our national
security."

He added: "I am committed to putting as much information as I can in the public
domain, without compromising security."

Oliver Letwin, the shadow home secretary, said there should be a single minister
overseeing emergency planning rather than nine separate Whitehall departments.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 4, 2003

LONDON'S FULL ALERT FOR WAR;
Simulated terror attack on Bank Tube station 100 to act as victims in March 23
exercise Plan to move Cabinet to bunker in the country Police, health workers
and army on standby

BYLINE: David Taylor;Charles Reiss

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2354 words



THE DRAMATIC scale of London's preparation for a terror war was revealed today.

An extraordinary civil defence programme is being put in place to protect the
capital from the threat of a terrorist backlash once war with Iraq gets under
way.

Key moves include: A FULL-SCALE simulated chemical attack on Bank Tube station
on Sunday 23 March to test London's readiness for a catastrophe.

ESTABLISHING a rapid emergency response to biological attack, putting thousands
of police, health workers and Army volunteers on standby to cope with the
deliberate spread of smallpox.

PLANS to move the entire seat of Government from Whitehall to a secure nuclear
bunker in the countryside if central London comes under chemical attack.

A PLEDGE today from Chancellor Gordon Brown to set aside extra millions for war
on top of the £1.75 billion already pledged.

A NEW law allowing the Government to assume control of City trading in the event
of an attack on the Square Mile which could destabilise the economy.

Britain has been living with a heightened threat since September 11, brought
home by the recent Army cordon around Heathrow airport and the discovery of
ricin in a north London flat.

But the huge scale of the preparations to pre-empt terrorism and cope with the
aftermath of a successful strike is still sobering.

The exercise at Bank will play out the grim scenario of a chemical attack by
terrorists on a train stopping at the Central line station which is still closed
after the derailment at Chancery Lane in January.

Almost 100 volunteers will play the roles of dead and injured passengers while
police go through the motions of sealing off a contamination "hot zone" and
council and health teams set up mobile decontamination units.

It became clear that any chemical or biological attack on Westminster could lead
to the creation of "an alternative seat of Government" at one of three bases
outside London.

The diplomatic effort to win support for a fresh United Nations resolution to
authorise war intensified today in Washington and London.

Russia's foreign minister, Igor Ivanov, arrived in Britain for talks aimed at
countering the threat that Moscow will use its veto.

In a clear sign of the key importance of the talks, the encounter took place at
10 Downing Street rather than the Foreign Office. And Tony Blair was expected to
join the discussion to exert his personal influence. Even if Russia could be
persuaded to back a new resolution, or at least abstain, there was no sign of
retreat from France, also holding a power of veto and threatening to wield it.
And there were suggestions that the entire military operation could be put back
to the end of this month.

One critical factor behind the delay was the rebuff from Turkey which was today
still standing by its decision to deny access to US troops and forbid America
the use of its bases and ports. Washington had promised billions of dollars in
compensation and aid to Turkey, the critical jumping-off point for any invasion
of Iraq from the north. Up to 62,000 US troops had been earmarked for the
operation but the surprise vote by Turkey's parliament to reject the deal
appeared to have thrown an immovable obstacle in the way.

Although the Pentagon has said that it has alternative plans in reserve, any
rethink looks likely to put back the invasion timing, previously set for no
later than mid-March. The opposition to conflict from France, Russia, Germany
and others was reinforced by the latest promise from Baghdad to disclose details
of Iraq's nerve gas and anthrax stocks and where they had been destroyed to the
UN weapons inspectors.

Mr Blair, Mr Straw and US defence secretary Donald Rumsfeld continued to dismiss
the Iraqi moves as no more than games playing.

In Iraq, it was reported that Saddam Hussein's Republican Guard are retreating
from the Turkish border to dig in. In a separate move, the Prime Minister was
warned today by members of his wife's own legal chambers that the second UN
resolution proposed by the US, Britain and Spain does not authorise war on Iraq.
Legal opinion on behalf of CND and other antiwar campaigners concludes that the
wording "would not authorise the US and the UK to use for against Iraq".

TYPE OF ATTACK

Chemical: deliberate release of nerve agents such as sarin or poisons like ricin
would cause mass panic and could lead to large-scale casualties. Sarin has been
used twice against civilian targets in Japan, killing 18 and causing more than
5,000 casualties when released as a gas. The ricin find in north London confirms
attempts have been made to produce lethal poisons.

Biological: an airborne terrorist attack using biological weapons such as
anthrax or smallpox could cause contamination for many years. Their creation is
"not easy", but in each case "the threat is considered serious". Anthrax may be
difficult to release into the air, but is "relatively easy to cultivate" and if
inhaled usually kills within days. The smallpox virus, eradicated worldwide in
1980, has been retained legally in Atlanta and Russia. Advice to Government says
its release is highly unlikely but concern remains.

Nuclear: detonation of a so-called "rucksack nuke" is largely discounted.

Whitehall sources say: "We are not expecting a major radiological device to be
detonated in central London."

Conventional explosives: postal bombs, suicide car bombs and "carrier bag" bombs
would all be easier to produce and plant.

Assassination: the Government has made clear that the risk to public figures has
also been heightened.

LIKELY TARGETS

Airports and planes: huge security around Heathrow last month shows how
seriously the Government takes the threat of terrorists trying to blow up a
passenger jet using a missile.

Airline hijack remains a major concern after September 11. Small airstrips
represent "the soft underbelly" of ports policing there are 80 in Kent alone
which could be used to launch an attack.

"Postcard" targets: Big Ben, Buckingham Palace, Tower Bridge and Canary Wharf
are among symbols which could be attacked.

Soft targets: after the Bali bombing and the attack on a Kenyan hotel, there are
increased fears about "soft" civilian targets.

The idea of a "bomb in a carrier bag" in a busy central London bar or an
out-of-town shopping centre is regarded as far more likely than any of the less
conventional methods.

Transport network: the Tube would be an attractive target because even a small
number of casualties would spread fear to millions.

The City: the Government is so keen to avoid the four-day shutdown on Wall
Street and near collapse of many major financial institutions after September 11
that it is considering changing the law to allow the Treasury, Bank of England
and Financial Services Authority to step in to run markets and suspend financial
transactions.

THE RESPONSE

Hospitals and public health bodies

CONTINGENCY plans have been drawn up for dealing with anthrax, plague, botulism
and smallpox which reveal an unprecedented level of preparation, down to the
numbers of medical staff who would be needed to run smallpox vaccination centres
in church halls and schools in the event of a mass outbreak.

The Government's smallpox plan reveals that the first patients would be
transferred to the High Security Infectious Disease Unit at Coppetts Wood in
Muswell Hill, or the only similar unit, in Newcastle.

The facility is on continuous standby to deal with deadly and highly contagious
diseases like ebola, but averages just two or three admissions per decade - the
last case was an aid worker who died in February 2000 after contracting lassa
fever in Sierra Leone. If a case of smallpox is confirmed, the patient will be
taken to one of three completely enclosed beds, where treatment is administered
by staff in highprotection clothing.

Pressure in the building is lower than the outside world, so even if a window is
opened, contaminated air cannot escape.

If the case is confirmed as smallpox, the whole of the UK would move to a
heightened state of alert - within 24 hours a network of smallpox care centres
would be opened on secure sites, each staffed by around 140 people, who would
all be vaccinated.

The patient's close contacts family, friends and close work colleagues - would
all be given urgent vaccination and told to stay at home for between 10 and 16
days.

So-called Category B people, who have shared public transport, and
air-conditioned buildings, should also be vaccinated and told to stay at home if
they have a fever.

Families of health workers would be immunised, along with tens of thousands of
police and firefighters. The Government has stockpiled 20 million doses of
smallpox vaccine - enough for one in three Britons - but mass vaccination would
only follow if a multiple outbreak developed or public panic made wholesale
vaccination essential.

A national network of 60 smallpox diagnosis and response teams are on 24-hour
call. Secure sites have been identified for smallpox care centres and the UK
will go onto a heightened state of alert if a case is confirmed anywhere in the
world.

Stockpiled antidotes for nerve agents and some biological threats such as
anthrax have been distributed to strategic sites around the UK, with each "pod"
capable of treating 100 people.

HOMEOWNERS

SO FAR, household tips on how to survive a major terrorist attack have not been
issued by the British Government, but it has made available online plans issued
in America and Australia containing advice on how to cope with chemical,
biological and nuclear attacks.

Last month, sales of gas masks rocketed 40-fold in one New York shop after the
US Department of Homeland Security warned: "Disaster can strike at any time."

Its 56-page report - Are You Ready? - told Americans to: prepare a "safe room"
in their homes, use gaffer tape to seal windows, stock up at least three days'
supply of food and bottled water, and show children how to turn off water, gas
and electricity supplies.

The report also advised people to keep vehicles fuelled, buy a portable radio
and draw up evacuation plans for their families, equipping themselves with more
than 60 items including waterproof matches and flares and a first-aid manual.

But the report was attacked for causing alarm and panic buying.

Biological weapons expert Michael Moody said: "In most scenarios the use of
gaffer tape and plastic sheeting is probably not going to be effective."

Australians, still in collective shock after last autumn's Bali bomb attack,
have been given similar advice. But they have also been urged to have a barbecue
and fire extinguisher at the ready.

Professor Harry Smith, one of the UK's leading experts on bioweapons, said: "If
something happens, the best advice is, 'Go home, stay inside and listen to the
radio'."

Information on terrorism can be found at www.homeoffice.gov.uk/terrorism,
ukresilience.info and londonprepared.gov.uk.

EMERGENCY SERVICES

THE QUALITY of intelligence sharing between police, immigration and security
services has improved dramatically, as the ricin arrests and subsequent raids
have revealed.

Surveillance has been stepped up and there is a heightened willingness to arrest
and detain suspects - more than 170 people have been arrested since September
11.

The Cabinet Office war committee, codenamed Cobra, is meeting daily to discuss
what police say is a very real threat.

In London, security levels have been increased across the entire Tube in
response to fears about a chemical or biological attack. It is claimed harmless
gas has been released to establish how far and fast it travels.

Major security improvements have been carried out around the aviation industry.
"Sky marshals" - armed undercover police - are now available for international
and domestic flights in the UK.

"Intrusion-resistant" armoured cockpit doors will be fitted on all UK aircraft
by next month.

Nimrod spy planes have been monitoring London while RAF bases in the South-East
have been upgraded to allow jets to take out "renegade" aircraft.

A total of 2,350 police have received chemical warfare training and would take
responsibility for sealing off the cordon around a "hot zone" where
contamination had occurred.

A network of 14 Civil Contingency Reaction Forces, each made up of 500
Territorial Army volunteers, are being put in place to support the emergency
services.

Security around London's socalled postcard targets has been increased, and more
than 300 new civilian beat bobbies are playing a crucial "eyes and ears" role in
central London, at Tower Bridge and Canary Wharf.

But government, police and security services most fear a conventional bomb
attack on a bar or shopping street.

The concern is that London's natural instinct to be vigilant about suspect
packages has to be successful all the time.

Crucially, prevention depends on the ability of police and security services to
garner intelligence of a specific threat linked to a time and place.

SADDAM HUSSEIN is organising a "suicide" defence of his country that could lure
American and British troops into a street-fighting war which could result in a
large number of casualties.

Washington officials say a division of Iraq's Republican Guard, until now
encamped close to the border with Turkey, are on their way south to dig in
against an invasion. Washington experts see this as a "go for broke" decision by
Saddam, who said last week: "We will die here."

A SUSPECTED Taliban officer who helped capture terror chief Khalid Sheikh
Mohammed is to get a £17million reward and possibly a home in Britain, it was
reported today.

The Egyptian will start a new life with his wife and four children after
providing CIA officers with information that led to the arrest of Khalid, the
mastermind of the September 11 attacks. The informant, who is thought to be a
disillusioned Taliban officer, was tracked down at the Pakistani border town of
Quetta by CIA officers.


LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PREPARED FOR TERROR: LONDON IS STAGING A REHEARSAL FOR CHEMICAL ATTACK

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 4, 2003

BLUNKETT'S AMAZING ADVICE OVER TERROR ATTACK FEARS COULD SPARK PANIC IN DOCTORS'
CLINICS; GET YOUR SMALLPOX JAB NOW

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Patrick O'Flynn Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  11

LENGTH: 465 words


PEOPLE terrified of dying from smallpox in a biological warfare attack should
ask their GP to inoculate them, the Home Secretary said last night.

David Blunkett's proposal for an NHS jab to protect people from the deadly
disease stunned MPs.

It cut across existing Government policy, and Whitehall insiders were worried
that it could create more panic. Doctors across Britain who were contacted last
night by the Daily Express were also staggered to learn of Mr Blunkett's pledge.

Astonishingly, they revealed they did not have stocks of the vaccine on their
premises - and were not even allowed to keep them. The Department of Health also
confirmed that its policy was not to make the vaccine freely available.

Mr Blunkett told the Commons he would make sure family doctors were told to
administer the vaccine to patients who turned up at their surgeries requesting
it. He made the pledge after Tory Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin pressed
him on why people wanting the vaccination - which has dangerous side-effects in
a small minority of cases - could not have access to it if they had made an
informed choice.

The Home Secretary stunned MPs by telling them: "I do not believe there is a
problem in people approaching their own practitioners for a smallpox vaccine."

He promised Mr Letwin that if there did prove to be "any difficulty" in members
of the public getting hold of the vaccine, he would raise the matter with Health
Secretary Alan Milburn to make sure anxious families could get inoculated.

Mr Blunkett also disclosed in the Commons that Tony Blair and other ministers
have not been inoculated against the disease - despite Downing Street having
refused to go on the record and say whether the PM had been given the jab.

The Home Secretary told MPs: "Politicians, including myself, have not and will
not seek vaccination against smallpox unless those vaccinations are made readily
available to the population as a whole."

Mr Blunkett said there were now 20million doses of smallpox vaccine being held
in reserve, although the Government was maintaining its policy of only actively
seeking to inoculate key health and emergency service workers against the killer
bug.

The Department of Health is keen to keep back significant stocks of vaccine to
allow it to follow a policy of "area vaccination" in the event of an attack.

GPs last night insisted they knew nothing about Mr Blunkett's plans.

Staff at Belmont Hill surgery in Lewisham, south London, said: "We don't do
smallpox jabs. It is not something that we have to deal with very often. Mr
Blunkett is wrong."

A spokeswoman for the Department of Health said last night: "We are not
vaccinating any members of the public against smallpox. It is not a vaccine held
by GPs."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 4, 2003

THOUSANDS TO FLEE IN PRETEND BOMBS ATTACK; THE TERROR REHEARSAL

BYLINE: By Patrick O'Flynn and Rachel Baird

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  11

LENGTH: 1098 words


A MOCK terrorist attack on London is to be staged within the next few weeks to
test how ready Britain is to cope with the "catastrophic" effects of a
radioactive bomb or smallpox outbreak.

Hundreds of troops, police and health workers will take part in the test, with
thousands of members of the public facing either being evacuated from their
homes and workplaces or held inside secure cordons for hours at a time.

Other British cities are likely to host similar exercises later in the year as
the Government steps up its bid to minimise casualties from any major Al Qaeda
attack.

The Home Secretary David Blunkett told MPs that the drill in central London -
expected in four or five weeks - would test how the emergency services deal with
mass evacuations and decontamination in the event of attack. He called on the
public to be patient if they were involved in the exercise.

Mr Blunkett did not reveal the exact nature of the exercise, but it is likely to
be based on either a dirty bomb strike, a biological agent like smallpox or the
release of poison, such as the sarin nerve gas attack on the Tokyo underground
in 1995.

Experts said it was likely to involve all emergency services and Territorial
Army volunteers. "Future planned exercises will cover a catastrophic incident in
central London - this exercise will take place shortly - disruption to the
national gas supply and flood defences, " said Mr Blunkett.

A Home Office spokeswoman said of the London plans: "This will be a major
exercise. There will be an announcement nearer the time."

Mr Blunkett confirmed that he still believed the terrorist threat to Britain
justified a state of emergency and agreed the UK faced a higher threat than
other European countries.

In his statement, he also revealed more details of the new military Civil
Contingency Reaction Forces, which will support police in the event of a
September 11-style attack on Britain. By the end of the year, 14 forces will be
in place, comprising up to 500 volunteers drawn from existing military
reservists.

But Tory Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin said he was still not satisfied
that ministers were doing enough to prepare for a terror attack. He revealed
that a new Home Office website designed to reassure the public was empty apart
from a link to the Australian government's official contingency planning
website.

"I think there is a problem, " Mr Letwin told the Daily Express last night.

"Public goodwill is being compromised by an enormously lethargic, bureaucratic
and confused approach.

"There are arrangements which involve nine different departments and a large
number of ministers each devoting a small amount of time to contingency
planning. But there is still no single heavyweight Government figure entirely
dedicated to this issue."

Mr Blunkett's Commons statement came after BBC Radio 4's Today programme said a
Government adviser had told them ministers were not doing enough to prepare for
a smallpox attack on Britain. "There is a lethargy in Government departments, "
the unnamed official told the programme.

A leading police expert said at the weekend that a terror attack on the UK was
inevitable. David Kelly, of the Association of Chief Police Officers, said:
"They are going to get through and when they do get through we have got to be
able to put in a credible response."

Last night it emerged that the Government will not issue leaflets about the
possibility of a terrorist attack in case they cause panic. A Whitehall source
said people might think that an atrocity was imminent, resulting in huge numbers
staying at home and damaging the economy.

New Pearl Harbor plot WARBRIEF 1

US agents were in a frantic race against time last night as it emerged that
captured Al Qaeda boss Khalid Sheikh Mohammed was plotting to destroy major
bridges and blow up petrol stations, hotels and other targets across America -
including Pearl Harbor - "any day".

Counter-terrorism authorities are desperate to swoop in the next 48 hours on
terrorist cells stirred up by the arrest.

Police chiefs in New York, Washington and other US cities were told Mohammed
plotted clusters of simultaneous attacks.

He was masterminding plans to cut cables on Manhattan's huge suspension bridges
and ram hijacked petrol tankers into the pumps at filling stations.

Pakistani intelligence forces snatched Mohammed in his sleep after tracing his
satellite phone. They stopped him swallowing cyanide pills.

He planned to crash hijacked planes into Pearl Harbor in a symbolic "re-run" of
the Second World War attack.

Mohammed is suspected of cutting the throat of American reporter Daniel Pearl,
who was murdered in Pakistan a year ago.

Relatives of victims of the World Trade Center called for him to be tortured
until he reveals all he knows.

Ray Downey, son of the New York fire who was killed in the Twin Towers, said:
"If he doesn't talk, cut off his fingers one at a time until he does."

Methods that may be used include sleep deprivation, making him stand for long
periods in a freezing cell and threatening his family.

Iraq keeps up the drip-feed WARBRIEF 2

SADDAM Hussein was yesterday accused of trying to stave off war by "dripfeeding"
information on the destruction of his banned missiles and chemical and
biological weapons.

The Iraqi dictator is continuing to get rid of his Al-Samoud 2 missiles, with 16
out of the original 120 having been destroyed.

But more than 140 freefall Iraqi bombs which could be used for chemical and
biological weapons remain unaccounted for. Saddam also promised a report on the
"quantitative verification" of his destruction of anthrax and the nerve agent
VX.

The pledge came as the chief UN arms inspector Hans Blix prepared a crucial
report on Iraqi compliance due to be delivered to the Security Council on
Friday.

Downing Street said it viewed the Iraqi moves with "scepticism".

And a former UN weapons inspector said: "This is a welcome first step out of
hundreds more steps that need to be taken." He added: "It would appear that, as
in the past, Iraq is drip-feeding small amounts of information to stave off a
conflict."

The inspector said the UN teams would have to test the soil at an air base 65
miles south-west of Baghdad - where Saddam claims to have buried VX and anthrax
stocks 12 years ago - to verify how much had been deposited there and for how
long.

Allied planes again struck targets in southern Iraq yesterday. Unconfirmed Iraqi
reports said six civilians were killed.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 4, 2003

LEADER WE CAN'T RELY ON THE GOVERNMENT IN A TERROR ATTACK; WHY WE MUST PREPARE
TO SAVE OUR OWN LIVES

BYLINE: SALLY LEIVESLEY

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 836 words


SOME time in the next few weeks, Britain will discover what it is like to be on
the receiving end of a dirty nuclear bomb, a chemical weapon or an attack by a
biological weapon such as smallpox.

Thankfully the "attack", which will take place in central London, will be simply
a trial, an exercise designed to discover what will happen in the sort of
catastrophe that seems to loom ever closer.

Many will feel that the trial is overdue. As the threat of terror grows, the
public is becoming more and more concerned and wondering just how able Britain
is to cope. In the US, households have received detailed instructions about what
to do in the event of a terror attack, down to the details of the supplies they
should stockpile, and President George Bush has confirmed that he has been
vaccinated against smallpox.

In Britain, by contrast, the public has been told relatively little. A
government adviser said yesterday that too little is being done to protect the
country against a smallpox attack.

In fact, Britain should be better than other countries at managing terrorist
threats, thanks to our years of experience of dealing with the IRA. However,
biological and chemical attacks represent a big escalation in the terrorist
threat and require new strategic thinking by the Government and a host of
measures to inform and prepare the public for survival.

Vaccinations are being stockpiled but they are not being given to the primary
healthcare workers and emergency services who would need them to deal with a
major attack.

Current thinking and state of preparedness reflects old-fashioned ideas about
disease.

Historically, epidemics come from a single source but terrorists with biological
weapons might attack several places simultaneously.

Huge numbers of people would be infected very quickly and in turn would infect
others.

Those infected would move around the country, spreading the disease as they
travelled.

The conventional solution to epidemics is to cordon off infected areas. This
simply will not be effective when dealing with a terror attack that creates mass
infection in several areas, terrifying the public. The emergency services may
try to cordon off infected areas but those inside will be desperate to escape
and, by force or ingenuity, they will do so. The police are pretty good at using
cordons to keep people out of dangerous areas but keeping people in a dangerous
area is a different matter entirely.

People are more likely to be receptive if they recognise that they are being
offered vaccination, medication, knowledge of how to stop cross-contamination
between family members and how to recognise key symptoms. However, the sheer
logistics of protection by vaccination mean that police, health and other
emergency workers throughout the country will not have time after an attack to
be vaccinated and then do their duty with assisting the public. Furthermore,
with biological attacks that cannot be prepared for by vaccination, the
emergency services need personal protective equipment as well as knowledge of
how to keep effective barriers between themselves and potentially infectious
members of the public.

Chemical, biological or radiological dispersion weapons threaten the public with
contamination and may be delivered within an explosion or by passive and unseen
means of dispersal such as in aerosols. The emergency services are well trained
in dealing with explosions and their aftermath. Decontamination is also well
understood by the fire services and to some degree by ambulance and medical
personnel. However the scale of the new threat requires a whole new strategy and
the emergency services are increasingly complaining that their training and
equipment is not up to the job. The Government, it seems, has yet to respond
adequately to the scale of the problem.

CRUCIALLY, Ministers have failed to recognise or, at any rate, to communicate to
the public, that individual survival in the event of a chemical, biological or
nuclear attack depends not on the Government but on individual citizens.

Individuals need to be able to recognise, respond to and recover from weapons
that may deliver radioactive, chemical or biological contamination. If an attack
happens, there will be no point waiting helplessly for the Government to tell us
what to do; by then it may be too late.

The Government should now be telling the public to build up emergency stocks of
resources for decontamination, food, water, radios and other basic necessities.
Every man, woman and child in the country should be given guidance in dealing
with contamination or infection, taking shelter under immediate threat of an
attack, sealing off areas from external contaminants or surviving in a train
carriage when chemical, radiological or biological weapons are released.

It is up to the Government to give us this information but, if an attack does
happen, survival will be up to us.

Dr Sally Leivesley is a counterterrorism adviser

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                 March 4, 2003

Region on red alert over terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Zoe Hughes

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 371 words


New "resilience teams" are being created to help police, fire, hospital and
council officials plan and deal with any attack and major emergencies.  The
announcement by Home Secretary David Blunkett yesterday is part an attempt to
strengthen UK preparations against terrorist attacks.

As fears mount that war could be launched against Iraq in less than a fortnight,
Mr Blunkett revealed new emergency planning legislation would also be introduced
in the summer to toughen British defences.

The anti-terrorist teams, based on regional government offices including
Yorkshire and the Humber, will come into force by April 1, and will be helped by
new Territorial Army reaction forces.

The 14 civil contingency reaction forces, enlisting up to 500 reserves each and
based on TA infantry battalions, are expected to be introduced by the end of the
year to help police chiefs in an emergency.

Further details of where the forces will be based, though, were unavailable from
the Home Office.

Mr Blunkett outlined the measures in a statement to MPs saying: "The local
response capability is one of the key building blocks of the UK's resilience."
Workshops have already been held with local emergency services and planners this
year, he explained, in an effort to "enhance regional resilience" with further
tests scheduled to ensure "plans will be effective on the day".

On top of the anti-terrorist teams and TA reaction forces, the Government has
also provided 360 mobile decontamination units and more than 7,000 protection
suits to ambulance and hospital staff in the event of a chemical, biological or
nuclear attack.

Vaccine stocks have been built up over the past year and the fire service has
signed an agreement with Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott to help during any
national mass decontamination exercise.

Mr Blunkett went on: "We are improving our ability to co-ordinate planning for
major emergencies at a regional level by recruiting resilience teams in each
regional government office. Teams will be in place by April.

"These will be dedicated units - to enhance regional civil contingency planning,
including dealing with terrorist threats and other major emergencies." Caption:

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2003 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 4, 2003, Tuesday

LONDONERS TO FACE SIMULATION OF CATASTROPHIC' TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS AND CAHAL MILMO A British Chinook transport helicopter
carrying equipment near Camp Blair-Mayne in the desert of northern Kuwait
yesterday John Moore/AP

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 345 words


A "CATASTROPHIC" terrorist attack will be simulated in Westminster within weeks
to test London's ability to cope with an 11 September-style atrocity.

Police, hospitals, fire and ambulance services and emergency planners will take
part in the drill, which could be staged on the London Underground, or at a
Whitehall ministry. It will replicate the impact of a chemical, biological or
nuclear strike, testing decontamination procedures and the speed of evacuation
from a "hot zone".

The Home Office said the operation would take place by early April and would
cause disruption to the public. A spokesman said: "It will be a real exercise,
not a paper exercise." Separate exercises will also test Britain's ability to
cope with attacks on its flood defences and gas supply.

David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, said the drill would "make sure we are as
prepared as it's possible to be for any attack, including chemical, biological,
radiological or nuclear attacks". He added: "We ask for the patience of the
House and the public."

A source involved in its organisation said last night: "We are looking at an
attack in Westminster focused on central government. A specific site has yet to
be confirmed, but that is certainly the scenario we are looking at."

Brian Ward, chairman of the Emergency Planning Society, which co-ordinates
contingency planners and 999 services, said he believed the Government was
planning mass evacuations in London in the event of an attack. Its plans would
also include access routes in and out of the city, and how reception centres
should be set up to deal with victims. Similar exercises will be staged in other
British cities later in the year.

Mr Blunkett said the new military Civil Contingency Reaction Forces might not be
operational until next year, at least two years behind schedule. The Home
Secretary also announced he was to launch an anti-terrorism website to give
"clear, accessible" information to the public.

How will our services fare in a terrorist attack? Page 6;

Leading article, page 18

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 4, 2003, Tuesday

THE THREAT OF WAR: TERROR MASTERMIND WAS PREPARING MORE ATTACKS' ON US WAS
RUNNING SLEEPER CELLS' IN US AL-QA'IDA SUSPECT IS ACCUSED OF PLOTTING ATTACKS
WITHIN US

BYLINE: ANDREW BUNCOMBE IN WASHINGTON Tom Ridge: Mohammed was plotting more
attacks'; Khalid Sheikh Mohammed shortly after his capture in Pakistan on
Saturday AP Photo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 539 words


THE ALLEGED al-Qa'ida mastermind, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, was plotting attacks
against commercial targets in the United States and the Arabian peninsula, the
plans for which may have already been set in motion, American intelligence
officials claimed yesterday.

His arrest in Pakistan at the weekend and subsequent interrogation should
provide a "treasure trove" of information about the terror network, they said. A
Bush administration official said the man accused of being the operational
mastermind behind the 11 September attacks was placed in their custody yesterday
by Pakistan and that he had already been taken out of the country to an
undisclosed location. The experience of previous terror suspects suggests he may
have been transferred to a US base in Afghanistan or Guantanamo Bay in Cuba.

Officials said the 37-year-old would be subjected to "extreme pressure" to force
him to talk but they said this stopped short of torture. Interrogators believe
that the next 48 hours will be crucial. Officials said they believed he would be
subjected to round-the-clock interrogations, psychological manipulation,
exposure to bitter cold or intense heat, and even "truth drugs".

Tom Ridge, the US Homeland Security Secretary, said it was believed that the
al-Qa'ida suspect was plotting further attacks and that the recent raising of
the level of warning in the US was partly due to that. "Some of the concerns we
had that caused us to raise the threat level were attributable to the planning
he was involved in," he said.

Officials said they had already obtained a wealth of information about al-Qa'ida
from the house in Rawalpindi where Mohammed was seized early on Saturday.
Experts from the CIA and other intelligence agencies have examined computers,
computer disks, mobile phones and documents they believe will provide names,
locations and potential terrorist plots of al-Qa'ida cells in the United States
and around the world. Mohammed is also believed to have details about the
group's finances.

"It could be the mother lode of information that leads to the inner workings of
al-Qa'ida," an official told the Los Angeles Times. "How they work, where they
work, who they are, what their financial structure is."

Another US official claimed the authorities had identified "several targets in
the United States and elsewhere", adding "There were indications that he was
involved in planning attacks that were not far away."

A report on Newsweek magazine's website claims the Kuwaiti-born suspect was
overseeing an effort to have al-Qa'ida sleeper cells in the US attack suspension
bridges, petrol stations and power plants in major cities. The magazine said the
information came from at least one al- Qa'ida prisoner who knew Mohammed.

"He indicated that Mohammed would go back to plots that he had previously worked
on that had not yet come to fruition, and there was other information from other
sources which pointed to the same kind of things that we were hearing from the
detainees," an official told the magazine.

The National Security Agency is said to be eavesdropping even more closely on
electronic sources for an expected flurry of e-mails and phone calls within
al-Qa'ida.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 4, 2003, Tuesday

UK CITIES FACE MASSIVE TERROR ATTACK DRILLS;
 TESTS FOR 'CATASTROPHIC INCIDENTS'

BYLINE: PAUL GILFEATHER, WHITEHALL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 304 words

HIGHLIGHT: TRIAL: Decontamination experts at Harrogate


EVACUATIONS could be carried out in cities across Britain to test our readiness
for a major terrorist outrage.

The first exercise - simulating a dirty bomb attack or smallpox outbreak - will
take place in London within five weeks, Home Secretary David Blunkett announced
yesterday.

He said the first "catastrophic incident" in the capital would be staged to see
how the emergency services and armed forces cope with mass evacuation and
decontamination.

Our ability to withstand attacks on flood defences and the national gas supply
will also be tested.

Mr Blunkett would not give precise details of the drills but called for people
to co-operate with "calm and patience".

He said: "Future plan- ned exercises will cover a catastrophic incident in
central London - this exercise will take place shortly - disruption to the
national gas supply and flood defences."

Britain is on alert for a September 11-style attack and there is speculation the
first exercise could involve evacuating the Tube or shopping centres.

The drills are expected to be expanded to other cities.

The Home Office said of the London test: "This will be a major exercise.

"We will be making an announcement nearer the time to inform the public what's
going on."

A website is also being launched shortly to give people practical advice on what
to do in an emergency. Its address will be:

www.homeoffice.gov.uk/terrorism

Mr Blunkett also revealed that 500 reservist volunteers will make up each of the
14 new Civil Contingency Reaction Forces by the end of the year. They will
report to their local chief constable in the event of an attack.

Two specialist firms yesterday set up a decontamination unit at a hotel in
Harrogate, North Yorks, to show emergency services chiefs the aftermath of a
dirty bomb.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                             March 4, 2003, Tuesday

TERRORIST WAS PLOTTING ATTACKS

BYLINE: MIKE JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 377 words


CAPTURED terrorist Khalid Shaikh Mohammed was actively plotting attacks against
commercial sites in the United States and targets in the Arabian peninsula, US
counter-terrorism officials said yest erday.

Intelligence about Mohammed's activities led in part to the orange terror alert
- the second highest in the US that lasted most of February, said officials.

"Some of the concerns we had that caused us to raise the threat level were
attributable to the plan-ning he was involved in," said Home Security Secretary
Tom Ridge.

Authorities recovered a huge amount of information about Al-Qaeda at the house
in Pakistan where Mohammed and two others were arrested early Saturday, a US law
enforcement official said.

This includes computers, disks, mobile phones and documents that authorities
believe will provide names, locations and potential terrorist plots of Al-Qaeda
cells in the United States and around the world. Mohammed was also believed by
US officials to have details about the group's finances.

FBI and CIA officials were described as working around the clock to pour over
the seized information to prevent any imminent attacks and to determine when and
if more arrests could be made.

There was also the fear that even as officials work feverishly on the case, some
of the Al-Qaeda op-eratives might go into hiding or halt any terrorist plots. It
could also have the opposite effect of pushing Al-Qaeda cells to accelerate
plots in the United States and elsewhere rather than run the risk of being
captured.

Mohammed's interrogators - whether from the CIA, FBI or from a foreign security
service - are working against the clock. His information about impending
terrorist operations and the location of Al-Qaeda leaders and cells grows more
dated by the hour.

Whether the CIA can learn anything useful from the alleged September 11
mastermind depends on the methods of the interrogators, and his willingness to
talk.

Of top priority during the questioning is gaining intelligence that could help
quickly disrupt attacks being planned.

That could mean a domestic law enforcement raid to break up a cell ready to
strike, or an increase of security at areas Mohammed names as targets subject to
imminent attacks.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 March 5, 2003

Rehearsal For Terror Attack

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 158 words


A Major planning exercise in case of a terrorist attack is to take place in
Aberdeen next week.  Emergency services will be given scenarios to deal with as
a table-top exercise in the event of another Gulf War.

Personnel from the police, fire brigade, ambulance, accident and emergency
department at Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, local authorities, water companies and
the Scottish Executive are to take part, although the location is not being
revealed for security reasons.

A spokesman for the Executive said: "The event on March 12 will involve police
and representatives of public bodies from across the country and follow a
decontamination scenario after a chemical attack." The police spokesman said:
"It will be quite a substantial-sized exercise, but this type of exercise is
quite common." The drill will test how the emergency services deal with mass
evacuations and decontaminations in the event of a terror attack.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2003 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 March 5, 2003

Emergency moves over terror attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 924 words


Special contingency plans are being thrashed out in the Westcountry to combat
possible terrorism attacks.  As the world holds its breath over a threatened war
with Iraq, town halls, hospitals and emergency services are preparing a list of
measures aimed at protecting civilians.

Councils across Devon and Cornwall have confirmed they are working in
conjunction with the police and other organisations including the ambulance
service, fire brigades, South West Water, British Telecom and the Environment
Agency to improve existing emergency plans in the light of latest Government
guidance on bioterrorism attacks.

Civil contingency forces of volunteer reservists trained in using arms are due
to be set up by the end of the year. The units, foreshadowed in a White Paper
last July, are due to be established in 14 regions across the UK, each with 500
volunteers.

A spokesman for the Government South West explained: "The reservists would be
deployed after requests from the civil authorities and advice from regional
military commanders responsible for home defence and security. Volunteers will
be able to carry live arms." Steve Wilson, Cornwall County Council's emergency
planning officer, confirmed that contingency plans have been worked on in detail
since the September 11 attacks.

Recently, the Government has instructed Cornwall's Territorial Army to form a
civil reaction force whose duties could include roadblocks, security sweeps and
logistical planning.

In Devon, Mike Thomasson, emergency planning officer for the county council,
said the authority was due to meet major official bodies throughout the
Westcountry to discuss the region's response to cases of biological or chemical
attacks.

Mr Thomasson said that during major emergencies, incidents are dealt with
according to a special pattern following the gold-silver-bronze control
principle.

He explained: "Within each authority there will be a gold control centre
consisting of senior police officers who will produce guidance to their crews on
how to deal with the case.

"The gold team works closely with the silver group which is deployed on the
ground and passes on direction to bronze units which cordon off areas and are
directly involved in dealing with the incident. This is the usual pattern
followed in each case. However, with new guidance from the Government councils
in the Westcountry as well as the police force will try to adopt a more robust
response to terrorist attacks." But a Devon and Cornwall Police spokesman
declined to make any comments, claiming latest Whitehall recommendations on
contingency plans were considered "intelligence data" which could not be
disclosed.

Yesterday, the West Country Ambulance Trust said it had stepped up its
preparations for the possibility of a terrorist attack in the region buying 400
chemical protection suits.

The order - the biggest placed by any ambulance trust in the country - is part
of a GBP 300,000 package of measures put in place by the trust to ensure that
ambulance crews are fully equipped to deal with any terrorist incident involving
chemical or biological weapons.

Around 160 front-line staff will be trained in the use of the equipment by the
end of this month and the trust eventually hopes to train up all ambulance and
paramedic crews in the region.

The GBP 250 suits, which can only be used once, are designed to protect the
wearer from the fallout of any chemical, biological or nuclear attack.

The trust has also put in place eight mobile decontamination units for treating
members of the public.

The units are based at Redruth and Bodmin in Cornwall; Barnstaple, Exeter,
Plymouth and Torquay in Devon; and Taunton and Yeovil in Somerset.

But ambulance trust spokeswoman Catherine Ferguson said the equipment could
quickly be moved to the scene of any incident.

She said that the suits had been bought in order to protect ambulance crews when
dealing with "day-to-day" chemical spills. None of the suits have yet been used
at an incident.

But she conceded that the process had been "accelerated" following the September
11 terrorist attacks in New York.

The size of the order, which is larger than that placed by the London Ambulance
Trust, is likely to raise eyebrows.

But Ms Ferguson insisted that nothing should be read into it in terms of the
size or nature of any potential terrorist threat facing the region.

She added: "Geographically we are one of the largest trusts in the country - the
size of the order does not mean that there is a higher risk facing the
Westcountry." The trust is now carrying out regular training exercises and is
also likely to hold joint exercises with the NHS.

Meanwhile, Cornwall's main hospital trust has reviewed its major incident plan,
adding responses to a biological, chemical or nuclear attack.

The schemes are being reviewed in the light of what is seen as an increasing
risk of terrorist activity around the world. The Royal Cornwall Hospitals Trust
board was yesterday told by Denise Samuels, director of nursing, that major
incident plans were renewed annually.

Key points include decontamination of casualties, protective equipment for staff
and the erection of a decontamination unit, in a car park outside the accident
and emergency department before contaminated patients could be brought in.

A report states: "In the event of a chemical, biological, radiological or
nuclear incident the ambulance service will declare a major incident." Caption:

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2003 Western Morning News

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 March 5, 2003

'Unprepared For A Terrorist Attack'

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 2 0503WESTDP2B4Tunpr

LENGTH: 442 words


A Leaked document last night revealed that the West's emergency services are not
prepared to deal with a major act of terrorism.  Sources inside the region's
emergency services have told the Western Daily Press how just a "handful" of
police have been adequately trained for action in the event of a chemical,
biological or radiological attack.

And a secret document admits the West's police, paramedics and firefighters will
not be tested on their response to mass evacuations and decontamination.

The Government revealed yesterday that London's busiest Tube stations will be
the target of a simulated terrorist attack designed to test the capital's
ability to cope.

Police, ambulance teams and firefighters will all be called to the stations on
Sunday, March 23, with dozens of volunteers standing in as "victims" of the
attack, sources said.

But no such measures have been planned for the West.

And experts claim that if there is a "dirty bomb" strike or a biological attack,
such as the release of smallpox droplets, on a major city or town, the West will
not be ready.

The Press has discov-ered: Just "a handful" of people from each police force has
attended specialist emergency training.

There are no plans to stage major exercises aimed at testing responses to a
terrorist strike.

West doctors are not prepared for an outbreak of smallpox.

As politicians across all parties last night expressed concern at the lack of
preparation in the region, the Press questioned police forces about officers'
terror training.

But Avon & Somerset, Gloucestershire and Wiltshire police forces, who would
co-ordinate any response, refused to say how many officers had received
specialist training in the event of an attack. Insiders believe "just a handful"
from each force have attended the Government's national training base DNBC, the
Defence Nuclear, Biological and Chemical centre at Winterbourne Gunner, on the
edge of the Porton Down defence complex in Wiltshire.

The West officers that have trained are equipped with special protective suits
for use in a major incident, while ambulance bosses in the former Avon area have
ordered 100 chemical protection suits from a £706,000 allocation to health
trusts across the region.

And the region's fire brigades will soon be receiving special decontamination
units each capable of processing 200 people an hour as part of a £56million
programme which will also include 4,000 gas-tight suits for firefighters.

But crucially, there are no plans to stage major exercises specially aimed at
testing responses to a terrorist strike as is proposed in London.


LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 March 5, 2003

Britain 'not ready for terror attack'

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 552 words


BRITAIN is not prepared for a terrorist threat, despite facing the biggest risk
of civilian fatalities since the Second World War, it was claimed yesterday.



Tory former Defence Minister Sir John Stanley said the country was
under-resourced, under-prepared and under-led and urged the Government to act
before it was too late, while another MP warned there was widespread public
ignorance over what to do in an emergency.

But Home Office Minister John Denham hit back and insisted civil defence was a
very important topic and one the Government took very seriously.

A Home Office spokesman acknowledged no specific advice had been issued on what
to do in an emergency but added that if there was a biological or chemical
attack, public information would be relayed immediately through the media.

The general advice would be to get indoors and listen to the television or
radio.

The fresh warnings on civil defence come two weeks after a summit in Bradford
involving health professionals and the emergency services which heard there were
serious concerns about the readiness of Yorkshire hospitals to cope with
chemical or biological attack.

Delegates were told chemical suits to protect key staff from contamination were
leaking and ducting tape was being used to deal with the problem temporarily
until modifications could be carried out.

Last night, Yorkshire's regional health emergency planning adviser, Phil Storr,
said the problem was being dealt with and he was confident staff would be able
to cope with a major incident.

The Department of Health has been aware of some operational issues with chemical
suits since Christmas 2002. Some of the suits do have a slight leaking problem
in a sock.

A decision has been agreed between the Department of Health and the
manufacturers to address this and the suits are being modified.

Asked whether he believed the health service in Yorkshire was adequately
prepared for a serious terrorist incident, he said: I'm confident the staff
employed within the NHS are professional, diligent and able to adapt to any
disaster that may happen.

A Department of Health spokesman said all 9,000 NHS contamination suits supplied
to hospitals and ambulance services across the country were expected to be
replaced by October. Meanwhile, the Government has underlined it has no plans to
vaccinate the public against smallpox on a mass scale.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman commented after Home Secretary David
Blunkett surprised MPs on Monday by telling them people should approach their
own GPs for vaccination.

However Mr Blair's spokesman said Mr Blunkett had only been putting forward a
point of view that Health Secretary Alan Milburn would no doubt have a look at.

The spokesman said: We are following World Health Organisation guidelines not to
vaccinate the wider public but to ensure we are able to ring vaccinate should
that be necessary.

In yesterday's Westminster Hall debate, Sir John Stanley, MP for Tonbridge and
Malling, called on the Government to act before it was too late. I fear civil
defence in this country is under-resourced, under-prepared and under-led, he
said.

The UK civilian population is at the most serious risk of facing large-scale
fatalities than at any time since the Second World War.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2003

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            March 6, 2003, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: ATTACKS TO HIT HARD AND FAST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 179 words


In a strategy US Defence Department officials are calling 'shock and awe,'
forces plan to drop ten times the bombs in the opening days of the air campaign
in Iraq than they did in the first Gulf war.

If President Bush orders the invasion of Iraq, the powerful air strikes with
thousands of bombs and missiles would be combined with quick ground assaults - a
combination aimed at overwhelming President Saddam Hussein's defences, keeping
him from mustering catastrophic retaliation, and convince his forces they can't
win, Pentagon officials said.

Targets include Saddam's military and political headquarters, air defences,
communications facilities and systems he could use to launch chemical and
biological weapons the Bush administration says he has.

'If asked to go into conflict in Iraq, what you'd like to do is have it be a
short conflict,' said Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman General Richard Myers.

'The best way to do that would be to have such a shock on the system that the
Iraqi regime would have to assume early on the end was inevitable.'

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            March 6, 2003, Thursday

BLAST BREAKTHROUGH: CORUS LAUNCHES STEEL DEVELOPED FOR TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 178 words


Steel giant Corus yesterday launched a new product which allows explosion
resistant buildings to be built in a matter of hours.

The company unveiled the breakthrough as a response to growing terrorism and
security concerns.

It has billed the new type of steel (above) as being able to provide protection
for people in high risk situations, whether the risk be from terrorist or
military sources. Britain is bracing itself for an increased terror threat as
the possibility of war with Iraq looms.

The Corus product - Surefast - is described as a brand new way of constructing
explosion-resistant buildings in a fraction of the time taken using traditional
building techniques.

Its potential uses were being demonstrated at Lord's cricket ground in London
yesterday and today.

Surefast uses Bi-Steel, an immensely strong steel and concrete composite panel
technology.

The product is aimed at the security, defence, public and employee safety,
corporate risk and business continuity markets, as well as the construction
industry generally.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 6, 2003

11 die as Israel tanks attack refugee camp;
War on Terror

BYLINE: Chris Millar

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 331 words


ISRAELI forces today killed at least 11 Palestinians who were watching
firefighters put out a blaze in a Gaza refugee camp, witnesses said. More than
100 people were wounded.

The Israeli raid, backed by tanks and helicopter, came hours after a Palestinian
suicide bombing on a bus in Haifa killed 15 Israelis and wounded dozens more.

A gun battle had erupted in the Jabalya refugee camp during an overnight Israeli
operation, witnesses said, and continued as troops withdrew into an alley.

Residents came out into the streets to see the aftermath of the raid as the gun
battle raged nearby. As they watched firefighters tackling a blaze in a
three-storey building, the troops fired shells and machineguns from tanks,
witnesses said, and a helicopter hovering overhead fired missiles.

Palestinians being treated in a Gaza hospital gave conflicting reports over
whether the tank shells or missiles hit the crowd, however, they agreed that the
victims were unarmed and were watching the firefighters at work.

The Israeli army was not immediately available to comment.

Marwan Abu Shamales, 49, being treated for shrapnel injuries, said he came out
of his house after he believed the troops had withdrawn. He said: "When the fire
engines arrived and started working, the sound of an explosion was heard and I
felt like flames were cutting into my leg."

Doctors said most of the injuries were caused by tank shell shrapnel.

Thirty of the injured were in critical condition.

Palestinian Cabinet minister Saeb Erekat condemned the raid, calling it the
"Israeli government's revenge" for the Haifa suicide bombing.

Earlier, two other Palestinians were killed during the army's operation in Gaza,
during which the army blew up two buildings, including one belonging to a Hamas
activist.

Israel has stepped up its operations in the Gaza Strip since mid-February after
Hamas claimed responsibility for blowing up a tank and killing its four-man
crew.


LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 6, 2003

Now China set to veto attack;
War on Terror: New obstacle for Blair and Bush as they prepare to give Iraq a
last chance: PM BIDS TO WOO KEY 'SWING' MEMBERS OF SECURITY COUNCIL AFTER FRANCE
AND RUSSIA RENEW THREAT TO BLOCK ACTION

BYLINE: James Langton;Charles Reiss

SECTION: Pg. 6;7

LENGTH: 822 words


TONY BLAIR and President George Bush today faced yet another barrier on the road
to war as China threw its full weight behind France, Russia and Germany in
opposing military action against Saddam Hussein.

China's foreign minister said that weapons inspections to hunt down Iraq's
armoury should be strengthened and continued. And he said his country supported
the stand taken by the other doves against a new resolution in the United
Nations.

The foreign minister, Tang Jiaxuan, said that his country saw no need for a
further formal move by the United Nations.

The declaration means that three out of the five permanent members of the
Security Council, each of whom has the right to veto any action, have now voiced
strong opposition.

The hope in London and Washington, however, remained that the doves would not
press their opposition to the bitter end.

China has traditionally abstained on Security Council decisions which it
dislikes rather than using the ultimate veto weapon. And the foreign minister
today would not say which option would be chosen this time.

The dispute over dealing with Iraq threatened to become entangled with the
separate crisis over the nuclear threat from North Korea, on China's doorstep.

China today came out in opposition to American-led sanctions on North Korea and
called for direct talks between the two countries. Earlier, Britain and the
United States had inched backwards in the face of bitter international hostility
to war in Iraq with a compromise that could delay the conflict.

Senior UN diplomats signalled that Mr Bush and Mr Blair are ready to give Saddam
a final, brief chance to comply with demands to disarm.

A new draft of the UN resolution, now at the centre of a desperate diplomatic
tug-of-war, would leave "a window for a last turnaround by Iraq", one diplomat
said last night.

However, the message was that any delay would be a matter of days rather than
weeks. And both Washington and London continued to voice confidence that they
would secure the nine votes on the 15-member Security Council required to
authorise an attack.

Mr Blair today faced the full Cabinet with the Iraq crisis once again at the top
of the agenda. But open revolt - which could still see ministers resigning -
appeared to be on hold while the UN battle was under way.

The Prime Minister's own effort was concentrated on wooing the key "swing
members" of the Security Council, including Chile, Mexico, Pakistan and Guinea,
who have yet to come behind military action.

France and Russia, the two leading doves, yesterday renewed their threat to
wield their power of veto to block a resolution. But in the continuing game of
bluff and counter bluff, Britain and the US appeared confident that they would,
in the end, back down rather than trigger a crisis which would not avoid war but
would destroy the UN's credibility.

Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder of Germany, another leading voice for peace,
appeared to signal just that possibility last night when he conceded publicly
that the effort of the doves to avoid a war could well fail.

There were continuing signs last night that President Bush is ready to make the
decision to launch an invasion regardless of the approval of the Security
Council.

A White House source was reported saying Mr Bush would make a "defining
decision" later today after his discussion of battle plans with the commander of
the US forces, General Tommy Franks, yesterday.

Military planners are said to have told the President that an all-out attack,
beginning with a massive air assault, could begin within days.

In the first stage, the US would unleash more than 3,000 precision bombs and
missiles within 48 hours, aimed to force the Iraqi leadership into "shock and
submission".

Others, however, suggested the timetable for military action would take a little
longer, not least because of the roadblock placed in the way of an invasion from
the north by Turkey's decision to refuse to admit thousands of US troops on to
its territory.

The next critical stage in the diplomatic tussle will come tomorrow when the
chief weapons inspector, Hans Blix, presents his latest report to the UN.

Dr Blix said yesterday that Baghdad had been more helpful in recent weeks,
including allowing interviews with seven scientists without their Iraqi
"minders" present.

He also said that the start of the destruction of Iraq's Samoud missiles was
tangible and " spectacular" evidence of the willingness of the regime to start
disarming.

The comments were seen as a boost to the antiwar camp. But Dr Blix made clear
there were still many other question marks over Iraq's cooperation.

The concessions from Saddam were scathingly dismissed in Washington, where it
was claimed that Iraqi scientists had been forced to carry concealed bugs so
that their supposedly private interviews could be monitored.


LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: WAR CRY: US SOLDIERS FROM THE 887TH ENGINEERING COMPANY PRACTISE
PATROLLING TECHNIQUES AT CAMP NEW JERSEY IN KUWAIT; ANTI-WAR CRY: STUDENTS MARCH
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY, AGAINST THE CONFLICT. THE US
CONTINUES TO VOICE CONFIDENCE THAT IT WILL SECURE THE SECURITY COUNCIL VOTES
NECESSARY TO AUTHORISE AN ATTACK

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 6, 2003

Threat of war: BMA warns of attack by infected terrorist

BYLINE: John Carvel Social affairs editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 433 words


Doctors' leaders warned yesterday that there could be no effective defence
against a biological attack by a self- infected terrorist walking through a busy
street spreading a disease such as smallpox.

The British Medical Association said the government's green paper on biological
and chemical weapons did not take account of the possibility that human beings
could become the distributors of highly contagious biological agents.

Vivienne Nathanson, the association's head of science, said: "This is an
extremely worrying possibility as very little technology is required. All that
is needed is a person to infect themselves with a contagious virus like smallpox
and then walk through a busy city to spread disease."

Dr Nathanson told the Commons' science and technology committee that the only
real defence against bio-terrorism was to prevent the development of chemical
and biological weapons.

There was a case for civil defence preparation against small-scale attack with
known biological agents. "But no medical response exists to counter unknown
biological weapons or weapons for which there is no vaccine and/or no successful
treatment," she said.

The BMA was concerned that too few people were aware of defence plans in the
event of a bio-terrorist attack.

One of the lessons of September 11 was that officials responsible for dealing
with a disaster could be among the first to be killed. If a director of public
health was not available, others should be able to intervene.

"We keep hearing about weapons of mass destruction, but this is not an accurate
description of biological weapons," said Dr Nathanson.

"It is essential to recognise that they are weapons of mass killing and
incapacitation. These weapons do not destroy physical infrastructure, but kill
people, spread fear and interrupt the workings of society."

She added: "It is important to understand why some states or terrorist groups
use biological weapons. They do so precisely because physical infrastructure is
unaffected and because they are cheap to produce and disperse. The only real
defence is to prevent these weapons being produced in the first place."

Scientists should be made to swear an oath, similar to the doctors' Hippocratic
oath, promising not to work in a field that would lead to developing these
"weapons of mass killing", the BMA said.

Smallpox vaccine is being given to key health workers and could be used more
widely in the event of an attack, but some people, such as those with eczema and
pregnant women, would be unprotected, a spokeswoman added.


LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             March 7, 2003, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: MUSLIMS IN 'DON'T ATTACK IRAQ' PLEA

BYLINE: JOHN ASHTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 354 words


British Muslims appealed to the Prime Minister to make 'the only brave and
courageous decision, and to abolish all plans for attacking Iraq' last night.

The plea comes in an open letter to Mr Blair in which the Muslim Association of
Britain urges him to embark immediately on a campaign to resolve the issue
diplomatically and peacefully.

It reads: 'The case for war has not been made, despite the Government's best and
most sincere attempts.

'This campaign that will spill the blood of hundreds of thousands, is not only
illegal due to the lack of international backing and its unilateral format, but
is also highly immoral, as the aims and objectives are clearly other than those
flaunted in the media by our own Government as well as the US administration.

'Strategic, economic and political hegemony for the United States is clearly
what this campaign is about, and it is high time Britain disassociated itself
the reform.'

The association warns: 'Launching an attack on Iraq will benefit only a few who
can see no further than short-term interests, that can only be achieved by
playing havoc with millions of lives and bringing a country, already on its
knees, to total collapse and dissemination. 'This can never be in the best
interest of the Iraqi people, the peoples of the region, nor of the
international community throughout the world. If anything, such a campaign will
only flame the sentiments of hatred, xenophobia, racism and extremism.'

Since the September 11 atrocities in America, the association and many other
sister organisations have worked tirelessly to bring about calm within their
communities, while appealing to the Government to act responsibly to avoid
tensions flaring up.

'We must say, however, that while the 2.5 million strong Muslim community in
Britain has been controlled and disciplined... it has been the Government and
its policies at home and abroad, that have been lacking of such sense of
responsibility, and seemingly oblivious to the potential tensions, divisions and
gaps that such policies, actions and statements create within our society.'

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             March 7, 2003, Friday

Security alert over terrorist attacks on British troops

BYLINE: Daniel McGrory

SECTION: Home news; 19

LENGTH: 831 words


Militants target military convoys, Daniel McGrory reports from Kuwait City

Security is being tightened around British units arriving in Kuwait after senior
ministers were shown secret intelligence details of "a credible threat" of
terrorist attacks on troops in the next few days.

Islamic militants have already killed two US Marines, wounded two others and
were recently foiled in an attempted attack on a British Army convoy as it left
a port on the outskirts of Kuwait City.

Kuwaiti forces arrested five Islamic militants yesterday and seized a large
amount of weapons and ammunition. An Interior Ministry statement said that the
suspects, described as extremists, included four Kuwaitis and one non-Kuwaiti.
The men had confessed to weapons training, the statement said, and security
forces had found guns, grenades and ammunition.

What concerns US and British military commanders is that many of the suspects
arrested for alleged involvement in these attacks have been identified as
serving members of the various branches of Kuwait's security organisations. Some
were wearing their uniforms and using their security passes to evade checkpoints
and get close to allied military bases.

The ever-increasing volume of military traffic seen clogging Kuwait's main
highways, with British and US convoys transporting equipment to the tens of
thousands of newlyarrived troops, is obvious prey for drive-by gunmen.

Khaled Messier al-Shimmari, a policeman, was jailed for 15 years earlier this
week for seriously injuring two US soldiers in an ambush before fleeing across
the border to Saudi Arabia.

American sentries reported that they were fired on in a drive-by shooting at
their camp in Shuaiba on Wednesday. The attack came just hours after police
found a cache of weapons and explosives at an abandoned building in the desert
at Sabiya.

Some of the weaponry, including grenades and rifles, is understood to have come
from military stocks. A US patrol found another arsenal of weapons hidden in a
pick-up truck that was stopped at a checkpoint close to a desert road leading to
one of the Americans' main camps.

At the weekend, a 37-year-old first lieutenant with the Kuwaiti National Guard
was arrested by Kuwaiti undercover officers after a car chase along the main
Gulf Road. The man was caught after he tried to ram his car through the main
gates of the National Assembly with 700 rounds of ammunition and weapons in the
vehicle.

Police are still investigating three men, serving with the Defence and Interior
Ministry security departments, who are charged with plotting attacks on American
and British forces at the scores of makeshift bases set up in the northern
deserts of Kuwait.

The Interior Ministry has assured British and US commanders that they have
purged their security ranks of any militant threat, a promise which allied
military officers regard with some scepticism.

One allied commander said: "Security around ports and airports where our
equipment and manpower are arriving is the Kuwaiti responsibility.

So, too, are the main roads and hotels where some of our personnel are staying.

They don't exactly fill you with confidence."

British commanders have not yet been given the full details of the abortive
attack on an Army convoy last month as it left Shuwaikh port.

A Kuwaiti undercover unit spotted a car containing four men as it accelerated
through traffic. They intervened as the vehicle tried to cut across the
slow-moving convoy, led by a British Land Rover, on the dual carriageway.

The suspect car veered away and crashed as it tried to escape. But only the
driver, a Kuwaiti man, was captured. The three others fled, including the leader
of the alleged terrorist cell, whom the driver identified as a Saudi Arabian.

As the colossal allied military build-up continues, there are daily warnings
from local Islamic groups about attacks, which are being taken seriously because
of the amount of weaponry freely available in this country.

The Kuwaiti Government has admitted to the presence of al-Qaeda units operating
inside its borders, but it is equally concerned about local groups which,
although not linked to Osama bin Laden's network, share his violent ambitions
towards the Western force massed on Iraq's border.

Security officials say that last week there was an attempted hijack of a Kuwait
Airlines jet by an Afghan man whose identity has not been released. Officials
say that an off-duty Kuwaiti Army officer foiled the hijack of the aircraft,
which was carrying the country's United Nations delegate to the capital for
discussions about a new resolution. Evidence of increasing militancy is also
being seen daily in the capital with gangs of Islamic extremists preventing
families from entering shopping malls in Kuwait City. The gangs are protesting
about "the corruption of men and women shopping together" and of Western culture
polluting their Islamic society.


LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             March 9, 2003, Sunday

MORTUARIES SOUGHT TO TAKE MASS FATALITIES' FROM TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: GEOFFREY LEAN ENVIRONMENT EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 453 words


Ministers are secretly scouring the country for mortuaries to take thousands of
civilian bodies from a terrorist attack after war breaks out with Iraq.

David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, has appointed one of Britain's leading
coroners to spearhead the search for huge temporary mortuaries, such as aircraft
hangers. Richard Sturt, who retired as the East Kent Coroner two years ago, is
touring the country meeting planning chiefs to assess how they could cope with
"mass fatalities".

But emergency planners are criticising the search as too small and too slow to
meet the urgency of the threat.

In his 22 years in the job, Mr Sturt became Britain's most experienced coroner
in dealing with the aftermath of disasters, presiding over the inquests on the
victims of the capsizing of the Herald of Free Enterprise in 1987, the Deal
bombing in 1989, and a big coach crash on the M2 four years later. He was also
in post in 2000 when 58 Chinese immigrants were found dead in the back of a
lorry at Dover.

The 63-year-old solicitor - a prominent churchman Christian who has held several
senior posts at Canterbury Cathedral - is now about two-thirds of the way
through his highly confidential task, and is to report to Mr Blunkett next
month.

Mr Sturt's work is being kept secret because civil servants believe that their
revelation would create public alarm and strengthen unease about the war, which
is expected to increase the risk of terrorist outrages in Britain.

Local authorities began identifying big temporary mortuaries in the 1980s after
the Hillsborough and Lockerbie disasters. But experts say that most areas have
room for only about 100 to 200 bodies, and ministers now accept that they may
have to cope with thousands at a time.

They also accept that a massive explosion could cause widespread dismemberment
of bodies and that space will have to be provided for "sorting them out" for
burial.

Mr Sturt is identifying aircraft hangers and army drill halls as possible
mortuaries. But the impending war and the continuing fire dispute are making his
task more difficult.

West London had originally settled on hangers at RAF Northolt, but these are now
expected to be needed for the war. Other possible sites are being used by Green
Goddess fire engines.

But emergency planners say the Government is moving far too slowly in getting
just one man to do the exercise, 18 months after the 11 September attacks. One
accused ministers of proceeding with "glacial slowness" and of having "no sense
of urgency".

Late last week neither the Home Office nor Mr Sturt would comment on his search.
But the Home Office confirmed it was "doing ongoing work on mass fatalities".

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                                 March 9, 2003

Alert by textmessage - is this really how the Government will tell us of a
terrorist attack?

BYLINE: Martin Smith

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 573 words



AN extraordinary series of high-tech measures to warn the public of terrorist
attacks - including text-messaging Britain's 50 million mobile phone subscribers
- are under urgent consideration by the Government.

Other methods set to be used to alert the public include the instant
interruption of television and radio broadcasts and sending automated voice
messages to home and workplace telephones.

Warnings would be flashed on car radio visual displays, and existing roadside
electronic traffic signs would instruct drivers to keep out of an area in the
event of a chemical or biological attack.

The proposals have been drawn up by the National Steering Committee for Warning
and Informing the Public (NSCWIP), a partnership of central and local
government, emergency services, public utilities and professional organisations.

The committee was set up in 1995 with the single remit of 'encouraging
improvements in the arrangements for warning members of the public of an
imminent or actual threat to life, health or property and to inform them of the
appropriate action to take'.

But since the September 11 attacks, its work has become more crucial to
Britain's security and, with the likely terrorist repercussions of war with
Iraq, it is submitting fresh recommendations to the Government.

Talks are at an advanced stage with BT, mobile phone companies and television
and radio stations to establish the fastest, most efficient method to broadcast
warnings.

One Government source told The Mail on Sunday that text-messaging was a favoured
option as it would instantly cover 70 per cent of the population, but
technicians were trying to iron out a hitch.

The source said: 'In many cases, a person does not know who has sent the text.
We are working with the phone companies to ensure that those who receive the
texts know they are not a hoax.' Plans are also being drawn up in the event of a
national power failure caused by an attack on the National Grid or an
electromagnetic strike knocking out electrical systems.

These include providing every household with a windup radio, the use of
loudhailer vans, helicopter 'sky-shout' systems, maroons and flares like those
fired by ships in distress, and hand-operated sirens.

The latest NSCWIP report to the Government says the ideal public warning system
is one that ' captures' the highest percentage of the at-risk population 'no
matter where they are, what they are doing or what time of day it is'.

It adds: 'Indoors or outdoors, day or night, in the car or doing the dishes -
something will grab your attention and warn you of an incident. It might be a
wide-area siren, a telephone call to your home or mobile, or via the radio in
your car.' The committee has adopted a slogan - 'Go in, stay in, tune in' -
which has been used for an educational video to teach schoolchildren how to
safeguard themselves in the event of a major emergency.

However, the NSCWIP warned the Government eight months ago that 'there is a lack
of adequate legislation, and as result, a lack of commitment, funding, ownership
and responsibility for the issuing of public warnings. Overall, not a good
situation for the UK to find itself in'.

Last night a senior Government spokesman confirmed that 'a wide range of
technology' for warning the public, including text-messaging, was under
consideration but 'no firm decisions' had been taken.


LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 March 9, 2003

Comment Extra: Inside the mind of a terrorist: As fear of terror attacks in
Britain rises, it is vital to understand what drives young to men carry out
atrocities. In a disturbing personal testament, Rachid, a 31-year-old Algerian
jailed in his homeland for his beliefs and now living illegally in London, gives
an insight into the mesh of religion, politics and violence that creates killers

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2379 words


SO, FELLOW Muslims, Osama bin Laden has called us to arms. With the latest
excuse for terrorism being the war against Iraq, the old opportunist tells us to
address the crusader thus: 'The only language between you and us is the sword
that will strike your necks.'

As an Algerian who has watched numerous neighbours and friends turn to
terrorism, I received his message with apathy. Did the Algerians lazing in the
cafes of London suddenly put down their coffees and reach for explosives? No,
because Osama's words alone are not enough to turn somebody into a terrorist.
But the personal experience of many Algerians is.

For sure, Algerians admire Osama for shaking the notion that the superpowers are
invincible. His beauty and poetry recall the noble Islamic warriors of the
medieval age - and in our time, the brave mujaheddin who stood up to the tanks
of the Soviet atheists invading Afghanistan.

Those Algerians who fought beside him were the godfathers of the two main
Algerian terrorist groups, the GIA (Armed Islamic Group) and the GSPC (Salafist
Group for Preaching and Combat) which were able to thrive under the extra arms,
money and morale provided by al-Qaeda, in exchange for a wide network of
Algerian terrorist contacts in Europe, disguised as chic Westerners.

Al-Qaeda created the global terrorist, exploiting the nausea felt over Arab
nationalism, as new rulers turned out to be as brutal and greedy as the old
imperialist oppressors.

Massacres of thousands of suspected Islamists in Syria, Egypt, Saudi Arabia,
then Morocco and Algeria, ensured it was fundamentalism, not Communism, that
exploded as a unifying force across the Arab world, to the delight of the
British and the Americans.

We all felt excited by the victory against the Soviets in Afghanistan. Suddenly
our people were not just bare- footed beggars but the conquerors of a
superpower. Many rushed to join the fundamentalist movement as an alternative to
our corrupt government.

Al-Qaeda is a cloak patched from different sources of discontent. Certain views
are shared, but we Algerian rebels have our own agenda and our own scores to
settle with the oppressors of our country.

The police and gendarmes who burst into our homes and kill our friends and
family have wounded us far more than American decadence. They are the immediate
source of our rage. Bin Laden's skill as an ideologue is to transform particular
grievances into a universal struggle.

Algerians have always been fiercely independent. We don't need bin Laden to tell
us war against Iraq is unjust, or that American greed is evil, or that the
killing of Palestinian children is an outrage; most of all, we do not need him
to teach us the sacred Koran. Bin Laden is not the Eastern equivalent of your
Churchill, inspiring us to fight when we are close to despair. He is merely the
self-appointed logo of a pan-Islamic movement that pre-existed him by hundreds
of years and will outlive him.

Already, when he talks of Afghanistan, Osama sounds like a nostalgic old man
telling his war stories to fidgeting young people. There are some who wonder if
he is still only a construction of the CIA, an invisible bogeyman used to
justify wars culminating in the American appropriation of oil.

It takes more than the speeches of bin Laden to turn an Islamist into a
terrorist. It takes years of feeling abused. To make me kill, my torture needs
to be personal. To send me into a fury, I need flashbacks of suffering, not
empty ideological concepts. The Algerian government's tyranny has made the
struggle feel real enough. Terrorist volunteers came running because of the
blood that they tasted on their punched lips.

It is almost incomprehensible to the Western mind how groups of healthy,
handsome, young men, could spend their youth not dancing, drinking and making
love, but sitting solemnly in a flat concocting poisons to punish infidels.

Stranger still seem those converts to terrorism who have been in England for
years and tasted the fruits of freedom - the nightclubs, the money, the pretty
girls. And when Algerians go out raving we are wild: we drink ourselves
senseless, 'zing' girls more than 10 times a night.

So why give it all up to be a terrorist? Are these men sick? Warped by drugs?
Bribed? Rarely. Terrorism is enticing enough to Algerians without the need for
any intoxication or payment.

I come from the terrorist generation. America has gangsta rap; we have
terro-chic. The terrorists charge around Algeria in designer clothes, Levi 501s,
gelled hair and Italian shoes. These GIA emirs (princes) are handsome young men,
deadly and romantic. They have nicknames, such as Yacine 'Napoli', Lyes
'l'egorgeur ' (throat-cutter) and Hocine 'Flicha' which means 'arrow' - a refer
ence to the speed at which he could kill policemen and then run away.

The capture in 1998 of this group of youths and their subsequent execution, made
them into legends. At the Algiers football stadium, a song starts up, directed
at the police, which roughly translates as 'Don't worry, motherfuckers, Flicha's
coming after you', interspersed with dog barks. The song ignites around the
stadium and becomes deafening.

From the outside, the terrorists one meets look respectable, bourgeois even.
When they speak of Islam their eyes light up. They might be killers but not the
kind you are used to in the West. The Algerian terrorist generally has a rich
and full emotional life, yet he is capable of bringing about injury and death.

So what is the motivation?

Reared in large families and seldom alone, the average Algerian is a stranger to
the individual 'I' identity that defines Western liberty. For us, joy and pain
are collective experiences. We feel each others' suffering as our own, which is
why the death of every Muslim brother, whether in Chateauneuf prison or
Palestine, is taken personally.

Collective responsibility is also used in reprisal, with, for example, all
Americans being blamed for dead Palestinians. Ramzi Yousef claims this
'collective punishment' was invented by the Israelis who have bombed the
innocent families of terrorists. Our regime has done this for years: murdering
suspects' parents, raping their sisters. Inevitably, the terrorists take revenge
- for sins committed now and throughout history.

AT THE CORE of Algerian anger festers the ulcer of imperialism. Algerians see
the same old principle at work - foreign invaders sucking the cream out of
Algeria: the Spanish, the French and now the multinationals.

The engineering companies are heavily protected (unlike our citizens), remote
and to the masses, aloof. Not a drop of oil is seen to trickle down to the poor.
Algerians combined noisy support for Chirac's anti-American stance last weekend
with pathetic pleas for visas. France denies us even one week's stay in return
for the 100 years she spent in Algeria uninvited.

France's very strength as a capitalist nation was founded on stolen goods, our
goods, yet France complains about Algerians coming over to 'milk the country'.

For the terrorists, this plundering of our resources amounts to a declaration of
war. They steal from Westerners and from the Algerian elite, calling it the
'redistribution' of resources confiscated from unbelievers. Women are kidnapped
and carried off for sex with this excuse, as the legitimate gains of a holy war.

During the French occupation, we called our terrorists freedom fighters. The
French used guns to enforce bans on the Arabic language, Arabic street names
and, most upsetting of all, the Arabic Koran, to break the Algerian spirit.
Small groups of nationalist 'terrorists' spread into mobs of soldiers and in
1954 the 'War of Liberation' began.

The French response included a shiny guillotine. Many old inhabitants of the
kasbah still remember watching their neighbours dragged out and beheaded on the
whim of a French general. Our fathers faced bombs, gas and snipers and in 1962
the French gave up. At last, the people were free to be Algerians, free to be
Arabs and most importantly for us, free to be Muslims.

My generation of Algerians knows what our fathers endured for our liberty. But,
instead of relaxing in a land of peace and plenty, we found ourselves still
bitten by poverty, with inflation and unemployment and successive governments
hoarding the nation's wealth.

In 1991/2, when the government cancelled the elections following the anticipated
victory of the Islamist FIS party, we all poured into the streets. Mass
imprisonment and executions followed.

For more than a decade, the regime copied French tortures - the blowtorch, the
drill, fingernail extraction, toilet-water drinks through chiffon, electric
shocks to the genitals, with some new refinements, such as buggering suspects'
mothers and forcing prisoners to commit acts of bestiality, prompting suicides.

The paranoia about terrorism among the pro-Western governments of North Africa
has done everything to fertilise its seed. One terrorist said: 'I wasn't a
terrorist, until they came for me and told me I was.' Every beating pushed him
further over the line between the Islamist and the terrorist.

Ask any North African terrorist whom they hate more - the decadent Westerner or
the treacherous Arab governments - and it will always be the latter. The cheers
for Chirac's peace campaign on his trip to Algeria didn't mean we have forgotten
French crimes, it's just that the murderers since 'liberation' have made the old
French generals look about as frightening as Tintin. War bruises a nation; civil
war twists and splits it, driving it insane.

The cycle of revenge is endless. Our terrorists began to kill not only the
military and the police but civilians such as journalists, doctors, teachers or
Christians. Intestines are used to decorate trees, heads are arranged on sticks,
foetuses cut out of wombs.

Civilians and charities maintain that many of the worst atrocities are committed
by government troops injected with desensitising drugs and dressed up as
terrorists in false beards or disguised by ninja masks. They are blamed for
horrors such as the baby found baked in an oven, and the skulls found arranged
in the mountains, which the GIA denied in a video that nearly all of us have
seen.

But neither the military nor the terrorists leave their business cards on the
corpses. The terrorists fear God alone, and believe Him to be on their side. The
Algerian who stabbed a British policeman in Manchester earlier this year did so
not out of hatred but out of habit, coming from a country where the government's
use of torture and the death penalty has made capture fatal. The innocent
British policeman was the scapegoat for evils engendered thousands of miles from
his home.

Our Islamic roots go deep. Even when we feel forced to leave to make a living in
the West, we are tortured by loneliness and longing for our homeland. We live in
the ugliest parts of the cities, working for pitiful wages, sending what little
profit we make home to our families.

The initial thrill of Western decadence quickly wears off. Hot sex is often
followed by cold rejection. Poverty protects us from the thrall of consumerism.
Our minds drift back to the golden memories of our youth, the love and sharing
among families and neighbours. Nostalgia is a sweet-smelling but fearsome
political force. The perfection and harmony we recall merges, hazily, with the
dream of the Islamic state.

Our sense of deprivation is unbearable, but we also know the Algeria we are
exiled from is not the haven it was. We feel violated by the Westernisation of
our country - the nightclubs, the thieves, the drugs. The terrorists put the
dealers' heads on road signs. Modern vices infect our land - the neglect of
religion, the worship of money, the break-up of families and the degradation of
women.

In exile, two things sustain us. One - the feeling of brotherhood with other
Algerians, and two - the practice of our religion. Without them, we writhe in
agony like fish without water. To keep them, we would sacrifice anything.

Al-Qaeda's representatives convince the Islamist his jihad is not aggressive but
in defence of Muslims persecuted worldwide. There is no time to be selective:
you make an all-or-nothing choice, for the cold, selfish, atheist West, or
Islam, with all its spirit, passion and fire.

Solidarity and obedience are mingled. The explosive malcontent becomes a tightly
controlled member of al-Qaeda. Before an action, the recruit prays until he is
in a trance-like state.

The psychological, spiritual and emotional support given to brothers fills their
hearts to overflowing. The fear of arrest is transcended. The terrorist senses
only the pleas of his brothers, a deep anger and a limitless passion for God,
for whom he could even, like Abraham, kill his own son.

Perhaps if our man hadn't been stuck in a ghetto, homesick, lovesick, unable to
speak English and unable to work, he might not have been so cut up by the
spiritual wasteland. He might not have had so much time to brood or run into the
arms of the brothers recruiting.

Maybe if he didn't have the paranoia about being deported or extradited to his
death, he might have cared about his life. He might have believed in freedom if
he hadn't seen the West back bloody regimes and oil wars. He may not have felt
so desperate if poverty hadn't forced him into exile: illegal, paralysed,
scratching a living for the smallest slice of pie.

Maybe if he didn't feel abused and that all Muslims are abused, now and
throughout history, he might not have been so hasty to redirect the world stage.

The terrorist closes his mind completely to the victims of terrorism - the
screams of the Twin Towers victims, the hideous injuries of bomb explosions, are
blocked from his consciousness. The reality is completely veiled by the romance.
There is not an absence of feeling. It is just that all his love is concentrated
on his heart's desire - Allah. The thought hasn't occurred to him that God might
not like what he is about to do. Inside, his brain is fired up with zeal, his
soul transfixed and enraptured by religious passion. He closes his eyes - and
draws the knife.


LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             March 10, 2003, Monday

MOCK TERROR ATTACK DENIAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 128 words


TRANSCO insisted this week there were "no plans" to hold a simulated terror
attack at their national gas control centre in Hinckley.

Some staff were due to take part in an exercise in London on March 23 where a
mock attack will be staged at one of the capital's tube stations.

Home secretary David Blunkett has also indicated that a simulation to disrupt
the nation's gas supplies could be staged at a later date.

It was believed this would involve the Hinckley base of Transco, in Bridge Kiln
Street, off Coventry Road, which houses a national control centre.

But Caroline Davidson from Transco, said: "There is no planned simulated
exercise for Hinckley. Along with lots of people, we are taking part in the
exercise in London, but that is it."

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 March 12, 2003

Couple Terrorised In Alness Attack

BYLINE: Erlend Barclay

SECTION: News; 999; Propertycrime; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 443 words


An Alness couple say an attack on their house at the weekend has left them
living in a state of fear.  Donnie and Helen Mackenzie, who live in the town's
Perrins Road, were awakened early on Saturday when a concrete ornament from
their garden was thrown through their bedroom window.

Their greenhouse was also slashed, garden furniture damaged and ornaments and
plant pots smashed.

Police believe a group of local vandals carried out the attack.

Yesterday the pair described the ordeal - one of a series of incidents in the
town at the weekend - and revealed they could not sleep because they were
worried of a repeat incident.

They awoke shortly after 5am on Saturday when the ornament - a present from a
grandchild - smashed through the window and landed on the bed.

Mr Mackenzie, 53, jumped out of bed, ran to the phone and called the police.

Mrs Mackenzie, 52, stayed in bed while he went to investigate.

"When the window smashed it was like an explosion," she said. "It's double
glazing so the whole room was covered in glass." There was no noise outside and,
knowing the police were on their way, they opened the back door and looked
outside.

"The whole garden was an absolute mess," said Mr Mackenzie. "The plastic of the
greenhouse had been slashed along one side, all the plant pots had been emptied,
24 ceramic pots were smashed, 24 garden ornaments were missing and a tree had
been uprooted and thrown into a neighbour's garden." The ornaments were later
recovered in pieces in buckets behind a nearby church.

The couple have already carried out a series of repairs to what they estimate to
be GBP 2,000 worth of damage. But the effects are psychological as well as
financial.

"I've got up every night since the incident, walked around the house and looked
out the windows," said Mr Mackenzie. "It's at night that it gets worse. When you
lock everything up you don't know what's going to happen." The police are
currently investigating the incident along with a series of other crimes in the
town that weekend.

An elderly woman living in Kirkside had her garden fence damaged by what police
described as "a group of youths"; a litter bin was thrown through the window of
a telephone kiosk in Alness High Street; and a paving slab was thrown through
the window of the Rigger Bar.

Alness police sergeant Alistair Shewan said: "A number of these acts of
vandalism may or may not be connected, but regardless each one has a victim.

"It is important that the community come forward and we would appeal to anyone
who may have information to contact us on 01349 882222 or the confidential line
on 01349 880999." Caption:

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2003 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           March 12, 2003, Wednesday

Terror attacks foiled as watchdog warns public

BYLINE: Richard Ford, Home Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 628 words


BRITAIN's anti-terrorism watchdog said yesterday that "enemies in our midst"
could be planning a bomb attack similar to that in Bali, in which at least 200
people were killed.

Lord Carlile of Berriew, QC, issued his warning as The Times learnt that four
terrorist attacks in Britain planned by al-Qaeda have been thwarted by the
security services and police in recent months. Details of the planned attacks
were made in security service briefings given in Whitehall.

Lord Carlile, appointed by David Blunkett 18 months ago, also pointed to
weaknesses in Britain's defences, including isolated airstrips, small ports and
coves where terrorists could smuggle in biological and nuclear materials.

MPs at Westminster were surprised by the outspoken warning that those most at
risk were not VIPs such as the the Queen, the Prime Minister and politicians,
but members of the public. Lord Carlile said: "There are individuals and groups
operating in this country who present a very great danger to the ordinary
citizen of this country.

"Further, it is naive in my view, to think that those who are most in danger are
sitting in the Palace of Westminster, or Windsor Castle or any local authority
building. It is my belief that the people who are in most danger are our
friends, our sons and our daughters, and we have to be very vigilant to protect
them. Bali is the lesson."

Lord Carlile made it clear that his assessment of the terrorist threat facing
the State and public was derived from secret evidence, including all the
information given to the Home Secretary, before he determined that 13 people
currently detained without charge are suspected international terrorists. Asked
why that figure was so low if the threat were so great, Lord Carlile said that
Britain was a country reluctant to lock people up without charge.

It was obvious that if the authorities could get the people "organising the
danger or providing crucial technical links" then a great deal could be achieved
to remove the present danger, he said.

"There is an ever-present danger. I believe every citizen in this country is an
anti-terrorist officer. If they see a stray bag or someone behaving oddly they
should report it. By that degree of co-operation we can avoid a concentration
camp mentality."

Lord Carlile, who is the independent reviewer of the Terrorism Act 2000 and of
controversial powers to detain people without charge, added: "There are enemies
in our midst."

He told the Home Affairs Select Committee of his alarm at gaps in security at
ports and airports, particularly those involving checks on airline crews who, he
said, at Heathrow underwent less rigorous checks than passengers. He was
concerned that if a rogue state or group were able to infiltrate an airline, it
might be able to infiltrate a crew. "My real concern is the big, international
airports," he added.

Small ports, airstrips and even coves needed tighter security. "Small airfields
were described to me by a working bobby as the 'soft underbelly' of ports
policing.

"We have to remember that lethal material could be brought into this country on
a small yacht into a small harbour anywhere around the coastline. This is a very
real danger and causes me an enormous amount of concern."

He also criticised the conditions in which Special Branch officers at Heathrow
must work. Lord Carlile said he agreed with a report earlier this year which
accused some airport operators, including the British Airports Authority, of
preferring to let space to retailers because of the income they received.

"The police should be given the accommodation for nothing, or for very little,
because they are protecting the interests of the airport operator as well as the
public."


LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 March 12, 2003

Man's throat cut in terror attack

LENGTH: 321 words


TWO men were stabbed in a vicious knife attack in the early hours of Saturday
morning in Leigh centre.

Police are appealing for witnesses to the attack which happened between 12.30am
and 1am when three friends a 25-year-old from Cheshire and two 27-year-old local
men were heading for the town centre to continue their night out.

Near the junction of Leigh Road and The Avenue they were approached by two men
who shouted abuse at them and in the ensuing row a man produced a knife pinned
one of the 27-year-olds in a doorway and cut his throat.

Disarm offender

The victim's two friends tried to disarm the offender who then stabbed a
25-year-old man from Cheshire in the leg.

The man with the knife was chased by the two 27-year-olds who caught him and in
the struggle the man with the throat injury was stabbed three more times in the
shoulders and lower back.

Two of the victims were taken to Bolton Royal Infirmary and were discharged over
the weekend. The third man escaped without injury.

Police said the victims did not see what happened to the other man who was
shouting abuse at them and they believed he was not involved in the attacks.

The man with the knife is described as white in his early twenties tall lanky
and was wearing a white or cream coat. The man who was with him at the beginning
of the incident was also described as white and in his early twenties.

Detective Constable Cath Greer of Leigh CID said: "These men were on their way
to the town centre on a night out when they became victims of a completely
unprovoked attack by an armed man.

"One of the men suffered multiple stab wounds and is lucky to have been
discharged from hospital so quickly. Both men who were taken to hospital will
need repeated treatment in the future."

Anyone with information should contact Leigh CID on 0161 856 7254 or call
Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 13, 2003

Emergency services practise for terror attack

BYLINE: Graeme Smith

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 177 words


SCOTLAND'S emergency services would struggle to cope with a large scale
terrorist chemical attack,

An exercise based on a theoretical sarin attack in Aberdeen yesterday involved
more than 150 players from all the emergency services, health service, local
authorities, utilities, and the Scottish Executive.

Scotland's nine police forces were represented at the exercise on the outskirts
of the city.

Sarin was the poisonous gas which killed 12 when it was released by terrorists
in the Tokyo underground.

The exercise highlighted the problems of dealing with hundreds of people who
might be contaminated or need to be evacuated as a result of such an incident.

David McIntosh, the area's emergency planning manager, said work was in progress
to cope with such a situation but the exercise showed that more needed to be
done.

He said: "We are ready to deal with it but how well we would deal with it, I
don't know. The type of scenario we are looking at is beyond what we could have
imagined several years ago - or even a year ago."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 13, 2003, Thursday

TERROR DOG AD ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 103 words


A TERRIFYING TV ad showing a snarling dog crawling out of a man's mouth has
attracted record complaints.

Special effects in the Wrigley's XCite chewing gum promo are so shocking that
more than 430 people in one week have phoned the Independent Television
Commission.

ITC spokeswoman Helena Hurd said the ad could be banned. She added: "A lot of
complaints were from parents saying children were terrified. Adults also said
the ad was distastefully realistic."

Wrigley's said: "It's never our intention to upset anyone. But it's almost
impossible to create an engaging and powerful ad everyone enjoys."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             March 14, 2003, Friday

Domestic disasters 7. terrorist attack

BYLINE: Patrick Kidd

SECTION: Features; Bricks and Mortar 22

LENGTH: 453 words


ON MARCH 23 the Government plans to test its own readiness for a terrorist
attack with a staged disaster on the London Underground at Bank Tube station. No
doubt ministers would advise us not to try this at home, but some degree of
swotting up on good safety practice might prove comforting in these troubled
times.

Unlike a leaking roof or a burst drain, a terrorist attack on your street really
is a domestic disaster and not one the Yellow Pages can solve readily. Those of
you lucky enough to have a parent or grandparent who lived through the Second
World War may find them an invaluable (and possibly unstoppable) source of
expertise. In America, reams of emergency planning literature have been issued,
the best of which are at www.fema.gov/areyouready and the oddly named
www.twotigersonline.com, which suggests that Shere Khan and Tony from Frosties
are leading the reaction to terrorism. US citizens have been hoarding canned
goods, medical supplies and TV listings in case they're confined to their
basements for a month.

In Britain there has not been the same panicky response, partly because 30 years
of IRA threats have left us with a pretty blase attitude and partly because of a
wish to avoid the hysteria that followed the Protect and Survive farce. Many
people may still have a dog-eared copy of the 1980 pamphlet that told us what to
do after a nuclear strike. Those who don't should read Raymond Briggs's When the
Wind Blows. By advising people that they'd be safe from fallout if they painted
themselves white and hid under a door, the Government sowed paranoia.

This time, the reaction has been much more softly-softly, although I understand
that the Home Office is soon to launch a public advice website,
www.homeoffice.gov.uk/terrorism, and in the event of an explosion or chemical
attack, the Government will issue advice via the BBC and local radio stations.

Although it is always sensible to have a stocked food and medicine cupboard, and
to keep candles, batteries, radios and important documents close at hand, in
reality there is precious little that we can do in advance apart from being
vigilant and staying calm. The Government website (www.ukresilience.info) has
details about how to handle suspect packages, and who to call if you are
worried.

For instance, the Metropolitan Police anti-terrorist hotline is 0800 789321, and
the National Poisons Information Service number is 0870-600 6266.

Finally, some words of advice for those peaceniks who want the Prime Minister to
resign if we go to war. Should Tony Blair step down, John Prescott would be the
acting Prime Minister until Labour chose a new leader. Don't panic, Captain
Mainwaring, don't panic!


LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 15, 2003, Saturday

PLAYING IT SAFE;
 WITH WAR LOOMING AND FEARS OF TERRORIST ATTACKS ON TOURISTS, WHERE

BYLINE: SIMON CALDER ADDITIONAL RESEARCH BY ALICE ROONEY Rocky outcrop: South
Georgia; There's no terrorism, but there are hidden dangers in Kiribati (top);
Macau (left) and Cape Verde (right) Doug Scott/Getty/AP; Little crime: Falklands
G Renner; Mutiny: Pitcairn Island Alamy

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1715 words


The Maldives: "The high number of foreign nationals could make one of the many
resort islands an attractive target for a terrorist attack." Denmark: "You
should be aware of the risk of indiscriminate terrorist attacks." France: "We
believe there is an increased general threat to visibly British institutions
from global terrorism."

What is the world coming to, as we slide towards war? For the traveller whose
guide is the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, it looks an exceedingly dangerous
place. The Government's official travel advice (www.fco.gov.uk) makes similar
warnings to almost every country on earth.

So where, in the eyes of the Foreign Office, are you likely to be safe? Trawl
through the hundreds of pages of travel advice that it supplies, and you can
find a handful of places where the Travel Advice Unit eases its hard line.
Places such as the Cape Verde Islands off the west coast of Africa, where visits
"are trouble-free, provided sensible precautions are followed", and where this
tour of the safe world begins. Be warned, though, that the low-risk status of
these destinations could have something to do with the fact that most are
extremely difficult and/or expensive to reach.

Cape Verde Islands

Where: a scattering of former Portuguese colonies 3,000 miles south- south-west
of Lisbon.

Safety first: "There is no recent history of terrorism in Cape Verde."

How to get there: via Lisbon on TAP Air Portugal (0845 601 0932). About pounds
1,000 return.

What to see: Fog, mostly. Should it clear, you may catch glimpses of the sharp,
verdant terrain.

Hidden dangers: "Sea conditions around Cape Verde are sometimes treacherous
(there are also many submerged rocks)." If you get into any scrapes, be warned
that Our Man in Cape Verde - isn't. HM Ambassador to the archipelago, Alan
Burner, resides in Dakar, Senegal. The Honorary British Consul in Cape Verde,
Antonio Canuto, "can only offer limited consular assistance in an emergency".

Ascension Island

Where: a dot on the mid-Atlantic ridge, nine hours' flying time south of Brize
Norton, that acts as a filling station and listening post.

Safety first: "Crimes or violence against residents or visitors are virtually
unknown."

How to get there: The only flights are aboard RAF Tristars, which depart every
few days from the Oxfordshire air base. Through Andrew Weir Shipping (020-7265
0808) you will pay pounds 900 return.

What to see: You will be one of the first tourists to enjoy Ascension to the
full, since restrictions have been eased only this year. "A popular activity on
Ascension Island is walking on Green Mountain and the other dormant volcanoes,"
says the Foreign Office. Don't worry if it rains, because the Government's
travel advice helpfully notes, "Alcohol is cheap".

Hidden dangers: "It is easy to sprain an ankle," adds the FO. "There is a pounds
100 fine for dropping litter."

St Helena

Where: the same longitude as Skye, but without the road bridge.

Safety first: "The vast majority of visits to St Helena are trouble free, and
crimes of violence are virtually unknown."

How to get there: aboard RMS St Helena, which sails from Portland in Dorset four
times a year and takes three weeks. To get there more quickly, you can board her
at Ascension Island; the onward fare costs pounds 345 one way, for a two-night
voyage sharing a four-berth cabin. Again, Andrew Weir Shipping (020-7265 0808)
is the company you need.

What to see: one of the most isolated societies in the world.

Hidden dangers: "It is an offence to wear T-shirts or clothing in public with
offensive slogans."

Falkland Islands

Where: on the 60-degree line of longitude, around 8,000 miles from Britain.

Safety first: "There is little crime or disorder and the risk of terrorism is
low."

How to get there: you know that RAF Tristar to Ascension Island? Its final
destination is Mount Pleasant, the not-altogether appropriate name for the
islands' main airport. The fare from Brize Norton to Mount Pleasant goes up on 1
April to pounds 1,568, if you book through the Falkland Islands Office (020-7222
2542) a month in advance; the price jumps nearly pounds 1,000 if you don't. You
can stop over in Ascension at no extra cost. "A compulsory mine briefing is
provided by the military upon arrival." And because the plane may not be able to
land, "carry some currency in US Dollars in case the flight is diverted to South
America or North Africa".

What to see: superb birdlife.

Hidden dangers: "Sunlight can be very bright and the wearing of good sunglasses,
hats and a high factor sunscreen is recommended."

South Georgia

Where: a rocky outcrop 800 miles east of the Falklands.

Safety first: "The vast majority of visits to South Georgia are trouble- free."

How to get there: South Georgia has no tourist accommodation, and visitors must
receive permission from the government of South Georgia to disembark. The only
way to visit as a tourist is as a stop on an Antarctic Cruise. Last Frontiers
(01296 653000, www.lastfrontiers.com) does a cruise which takes in South
Georgia, the Falklands and South Orkneys among other stops; expect to pay
upwards of $ 3,995.

What to see: if the Falklands were a little too lively for your tastes, you can
enjoy the simpler pleasures of South Georgia. "Visitors can purchase stamps from
the Post Office and stamps and gifts from the Museum shop on South Georgia."

Hidden dangers: "All of the historic buildings of the former whaling stations at
Grytviken, Prince Olav Harbour, Leith Harbour, Stromness and Husvik are in a
dangerous state of disrepair and wind-blown debris including asbestos dust
presents a significant health risk."

British Antarctic Territory

Where: a slice of the extreme south on a continent that is 58 times bigger than
Britain.

Safety first: "The risk of terrorism is extremely low."

How to get there: plan well ahead. You or a tour operator needs a permit from
the Foreign Office, for which you must apply "not less than six months before
undertaking the proposed activities". It is accessible by boat only between
November and February; contact Adventure Network International (001 866 395
6664, www.adventure-network.com) for details of its voyages from Punta Arenas in
southern Chile.

What to see: "Visitors can purchase stamps and gifts from the Port Lockroy Post
Office/Museum"; oh, and you may see some devastatingly beautiful icescapes.

Hidden dangers: "You should be aware of the risks posed by the harsh climactic
conditions."

Pitcairn Island

Where: a scrap of land less than two square miles, halfway between Panama and
New Zealand, which loosely translates as a long way from anywhere. It was first
occupied by Fletcher Christian and his fellow mutineers from the Bounty, and
presently has a population approaching 50.

Safety first: "There have been no terrorist attacks on Pitcairn in its 200-year
history."

How to get there: I called the Commissioner for Pitcairn, Leon Salt, at his
office in Auckland, New Zealand (00 64 9 366 0186) for advice. "Charter a yacht
from Tahiti, fly to meet it in French Polynesia - specifically the Gambier
Islands - and it takes about three days from there."

What to see: Mr Salt, who is of Pitcairn descent, says the island society is the
main attraction: "The lifestyle, the people: it's simple and self- reliant, the
people are in touch with the environment and everything that's around them." The
main historic sight is Thursday October House, which is said to have belonged to
the first son of Fletcher Christian - Thursday October Christian, born in 1790.
Don't expect a racy time: smoking and drinking are against the tenets of the
predominant Seventh Day Adventist faith.

Hidden dangers: "The nearest hospital facilities are in French Polynesia... the
Governor's Representative on the island can provide advice if required. She can
be contacted through the Governor's Office or, if on the island, by knocking on
her door."

Kiribati

Where: a vast territory, occupying an area of the mid-Pacific as large as
Australia, though with rather less land and fewer people.

Safety first: "We are unaware of any evidence of a threat to western interests
in Kiribati."

How to get there: first find a flight to Brisbane (about pounds 500 return from
April to June), and pay about the same again for an Air Nauru flight to the
capital, Tarawa.

What to see: the surf, the sealife and Second World War relics on Makin Island.

Hidden dangers: "You should not swim in the lagoon in South Tarawa as it is
highly polluted."

Solomon Islands

Where: an archipelago north-east of Australia.

Safety first: "You should not venture into parts of rural Guadalcanal, or on to
the island of Malaita without first checking the latest advice with the British
High Commission. Visits to other provinces are generally trouble-free."

How to get there: fly to Sydney or Brisbane and change there.

What to see: the mountains that rise steeply from the South Pacific.

Hidden dangers: "Swearing is a crime and can lead to large compensation claims
and even jail."

Macau

Where: a former Portuguese colony that is now part of China.

Safety first: "The incidence of violent crime to foreigners is low but
pickpocketing and other street crime can occur in some areas."

How to get there: fly to Hong Kong and take a boat across to Macau.

What to see: a dilapidated Portuguese colonial city now overawed by skyscrapers
and casinos.

Hidden dangers: "Take extra care when visiting casinos late at night. Public
offices shut down when the Typhoon 8' signal is hoisted. You are advised to
remain indoors."

Iceland

Where: a geologically adolescent island dangling from the Arctic Circle
north-west of Scotland.

Safety first: "There is no history of terrorism in Iceland."

How to get there: from Heathrow or Glasgow on Icelandair (020-7874 1000,
www.icelandair.co.uk), which has packages from pounds 289, or from Stansted on
Iceland Express (0870 8500 737, www.icelandexpress.com) for pounds 108 return.

What to see: steaming thermal springs amid dramatic lunar scenery.

Hidden dangers: "Iceland is very expensive - be prepared to spend plenty of
money."

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 March 16, 2003

IRAQ CRISIS: Iraqi spy network set up in Britain: Fear of terror attacks fuelled
as defectors tell their stories

BYLINE: by Jason Burke, Northern Iraq

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 587 words


IRAQI intelligence services have established a network of informants and have
several active agents in the UK, defectors have revealed. Their information
raises fears of a wave of sabotage attacks in the event of a war in Iraq.

In a series of interviews, senior Iraqi intelligence officers who have fled
Saddam Hussein's regime said at least one London-based journalist on an
Arabic-language newspaper is an agent of the Mukhabarat, Iraq's feared
intelligence organisation.

Over the past 10 years, Saddam's agents have recruited Muslims from other
countries on pilgrimages to Mecca and paid them large sums to travel to the UK,
often exploiting illegal people-smuggling networks and the asylum system, to act
as informants and agents, they said.

Iraqi intelligence trained, equipped and directed the terrorists who took over
the Iranian Embassy in 1980. Saddam's agents have been behind the killing of at
least one Iraqi dissident in London and the attempted assassination of several
more over the past three decades.

The defectors also revealed that Iraqi intelligence officers had trained
Palestinian terrorists at a base near Baghdad and, for the first time, revealed
details that confirm Saddam's role in the failed assassination attempt on George
Bush Senior in Kuwait in 1993. But they denied any link between al-Qaeda and the
Iraqi regime.

One defector, a Mukhabarat colonel called Abid Hussein, said: 'Many people were
working in Britain to collect information for (the Mukhabarat).' He named a man
currently employed as a journalist on an Arabic-language newspaper in the UK as
a spy.

A second Mukhabarat defector, Kassm Mohammed al-Hut, said he knew of the
recruitment of four North African Muslims at Mecca in 1994. The men were given
rudimentary training and sent to the UK.

Such operations continued throughout the Nineties, he said, with the growing
numbers of Iraqis entering the UK illegally to claim asylum pro viding cover for
other agents infiltrated into Britain. Abid Hussein, who was interviewed
independently of Kassm Mohammed al-Hut, confirmed that Mukhabarat officers
travelled routinely to Mecca to monitor the behaviour of Iraqi pilgrims and to
recruit agents.

Both men were interviewed in a prison in northern Kurdistan in front of Kurdish
security officers.

Iraqi operations in the UK date back to the late Seventies, said Abid Hussein,
who joined the Mukhabarat's foreign intelligence section in 1975 and visited
London as a diplomat shortly afterwards.

In 1978, he said, the Mukhabarat was behind the murder of Gen Abdul Razzaq
al-Hayef, a former Iraqi Prime Minister, outside a hotel in London. Abid, who
fled from Iraq to Germany in 1999 but was jailed by the Kurds when he returned
for his family, named the two Mukhabarat colonels responsible.

According to Abid, the Iranian Embassy siege in 1980 was run by a senior
Mukhabarat officer called Fawzi al-Naimi. 'I was in special operations in
Baghdad at the time and I saw their files and their information,' Abid, 49,
said.

Weapons for the Iranian Embassy operation were smuggled from Kuwait to London
with the help of the Abu Nidal terrorist group, which was then close to Saddam's
regime.

Espionage operations in the UK are now run from the upmarket al-Mansour district
of Baghdad in a building with five interlinked rooms known as the 'UK Desk'.

The unit is headed by a former lecturer in English at Baghdad University, who
was once the Mukhabarat's head of station in London.


LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Wales on Sunday

                             March 16, 2003, Sunday

LESS THAN ONE POUND EACH;
 THAT'S HOW MUCH IS SPENT ON PLANNING AGAINST TERRORIST ATTACKS IN

BYLINE: LAURA KEMP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 856 words


LESS than a pound is being spent on every person in Wales to prepare the nation
for terrorist attacks.

While Britain is on red alert and war with Iraq looms, emergency planners at
Wales' 22 councils have been given just pounds 386 extra in funding.

Last year, every authority was handed a basic sum of pounds 53,000 for its civil
protection measures. This year that figure is pounds 53,386, which represents a
below-inflation rise of 0.7 per cent.

That amount of money is topped up according to the size of the population of
each authority, so while Cardiff council emergency planners will receive pounds
87,332, Bridgend will get pounds 63,323 and Flintshire will receive pounds
77,741.

The pounds 386 for each council means basic spending on emergency planning is
40p per person in Wales. And the extra cash would only cover the cost of three
top- quality gas masks, 24 survival packs, 25 bottles of anti-radiation tablets
and the wall of an 8ft by 30ft bomb shelter for up to 20 people.

The rise follows our report which revealed that Welsh intelligence expert Gordon
Thomas warned Israeli spies believed there was 'a real and present danger' of
suicide attacks on British cities, with Cardiff Wales Airport on the hit-list.

And only last month the Home Office issued Welsh emergency planners with
guidelines on how to cope in a chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear
(CBRN) attack.

Alan Young, head of Gwent Emergency Planning Service, which covers Caerphilly,
Blaenau Gwent, Monmouthshire, Torfaen and Newport, said: 'The rise isn't even
enough to cover pay awards or inflation let alone the additional duties we have
since the September 11 attacks.

'Now we have to plan for incidents we wouldn't have considered to be realistic
prior to September 11.'

Gavin Macho, principal emergency planning officer for Cardiff and the Vale,
stormed: 'We are on the brink of war and we are being asked to prepare for the
threat but how can we do this when we are underfunded?'

David Ian Jones, North Wales AM, today branded the rise 'completely inadequate'.

'That sum doesn't even meet the paper clip budget. I find it terribly worrying
particularly as we are about to go to war with a Muslim state. We are part of
the United Kingdom and we are a terrorist target,' the Tory AM said.

But the Cabinet Office, which dishes out the grants, defended the rise, saying
post-September 11, civil emergency planning departments were given a 35 per cent
increase in funding.

A spokesman said: 'The government takes this issue very seriously and we are in
talks with local authorities to agree a national framework.'

And Lib Dem Lembit Opik, Montgomeryshire MP, said: 'When you consider terrorism,
it is risk management, it cannot be risk elimination. The rise doesn't sound
like a lot of money but until someone comes up with a way of guaranteeing a
terrorist could not wreak havoc in Wales we have to consign ourselves to the
fact that the best defence is to remove a terrorist's motivation rather than
repress it.

'There is a case for spending more but in reality can you eliminate terrorism if
you spend pounds 386, pounds 3.86m or pounds 386bn?'

HOW DO WE PREPARE FOR AN ATTACK?

WE asked the experts exactly that - they gave us NO answers.

In America and Australia, the Governments have issued in-depth booklets which
spell out how to prepare for terrorist attacks.

In the UK, there is no Government advice available to the public. The Home
Office is preparing to set up a website 'to communicate with the public' - but
as yet there is no launch date.

When we asked why there was no information available, the Home Office told us:
'If we felt the need to do it we would do it. The Home Secretary is happy not to
and the Prime Minister is happy not to.'

That's despite Tony Blair's comment that the threat of terrorism is 'present and
real' in the UK.

The National Assembly told us: 'Responsibility for emergency planning in Wales
is not devolved but the assembly works closely with the emergency services,
local authorities, health authorities and other emergency planning organisations
to ensure effective integration and collaboration in emergency planning in
Wales.'

The spokesman added leafleting was 'not necessarily' within the assembly's
jurisdiction but 'if necessary we would act in the appropriate way'.

Gwent Police advised us to call the Army in Brecon, who said 'Don't panic!'.

And various councils urged us there was no need to worry.

North Wales Tory AM David Ian Jones is so concerned about the lack of
information, he is calling for action.

'People deserve to be treated like adults particularly when we are on the
receiving end of a terrorist threat.

'In Wales, I believe the assembly has a duty to press for information on behalf
of the public. Nobody knows what to do.

'Terrorism poses a much more serious threat to Britain than it does in Australia
but we have no information.

'I don't want to cause panic but if people don't know what to do in an attack,
they will be even more panicked.'

What do you think? Let us know

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 March 18, 2003

Britons at 'higher risk' of terrorist attack in war

LENGTH: 589 words


The Government warned Britons across the world yesterday that they faced a
heightened risk of terrorist attacks during a war with Iraq.

A statement from the Foreign Office made clear that terrorist attacks were a
serious possibility, not just in high-risk destinations but in popular tourist
resorts across the globe. "The risk of indiscriminate terrorist attacks in
public places, including tourist sites, will be especially high during military
action in Iraq," a Foreign Office spokesman said. "You should be vigilant, take
sensible precautions, be aware of local sensibilities, monitor the media and
check our travel advice for the country you live in or plan to visit."

The Government also issued a final warning to Britons still in Iraq, including
journalists, to leave the country immediately. A spokesman said: "While we make
every effort to minimise the risk of collateral damage from proximity to
possible targets, some residual risk will always remain."

Travellers were urged to avoid Jordan, which borders Iraq, and Britons remaining
in Kuwait, Israel and the occupied territories, Jordan, Bahrain, Syria, Qatar,
Oman and Saudi Arabia were told to follow instructions issued by local emergency
services in the event of chemical or biological attacks.

In the UK, the Home Office issued updated advice telling people to buy bottled
water and canned food, and listen to battery-powered radios in the event of a
terrorist attack.

The material was published as ministers announced that a large-scale exercise to
test the response of emergency services to a chemical or biological attack on
the London Underground, due to take place on Sunday, had been postponed.

The Home Office bulletin said: "The principal threats come from international
terrorism and, in particular, extremist groups, including those who erroneously
claim to be acting for Islam. We are aware of the risk of ... terrorist
groupings seeking to exploit action against Saddam Hussein's regime by further
attacks."

Working under the formula of "go in, stay in, tune in", the online advice told
people to immediately head for their homes or any other safe location in the
event of an attack.

Homeowners should have bought basic supplies and made sure they could receive
information on a battery-powered or wind-up radio, it said.

The website said: "It is sensible to be prepared for any emergency in the home
and to make plans for any major disruption, including severe weather and
floods."

But the advice also sought to calm fears about extremists operating within
Britain, saying that there were "no plans" to intern or detain Iraqi citizens
resident in the United Kingdom. An internment policy during the 1991 Gulf War,
which led to 91 Arab nationals being held without trial in a camp on Salisbury
Plain in Wiltshire, was widely derided after it emerged that most of the
detainees were opponents of President Saddam's regime.

Sales of gas masks increased in London yesterday. One supplier said that sales
had risen from 10 to 100 a week since the Iraq crisis began. He said he expected
sales to hit 300 once the war began.

Terrorism experts criticised the Home Office message, saying it failed to go
beyond what common sense dictated. Bill Durodie, of the Centre for Defence
Studies at King's College London, said: "Since 11 September, governments have
wanted to be seen to be doing things. Whether or not these measures have any
practical use is questionable [#150] it is a sort of spin for emergencies."


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            March 18, 2003, Tuesday

JAIL TERROR OF FREED CHILD CARE WORKERS;
 ATTACKED, SPAT AT AND IN FEAR FOR THEIR LIVES

BYLINE: MARK HOOKHAM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 530 words


TWO Merseyside care workers freed after their child abuse convictions were
quashed have said they fearedfor their lives in jail.

Michael Lawson, 62, and Basil Williams-Rigby,57, were released last week after
the Court of Appeal declared their convictions unsafe.

Both men last night hit out at police investigation methods and claimed
allegations against them had been motivated by the lure of compensation.

Mr Williams-Rigby,from St Helens, who was jailed for 12 years in August 1999,
said he was twice assaulted while in Risley Prison in Warrington.

He said: "I had to run t he gauntlet every day when I walked from my cell to the
workshop.

"I was attackedonce in t he education u nit and people spat at meevery day.

"One p risoner was admonished for talking t o me. In t he end, I learnt to keep
my head down and keep away from the places where I could beattacked." Michael
Lawson, a former Merseyside Police officer, was jailed for seven y ears in June
2000 after being convicted of sexual abusein aMerseyside carehome.

At his appealon Friday,Mr Lawson's barrister said the original trial had been
distorted by alist which was read to the court of 20 colleagues who had been
arrested or were facing child abusecharges. Hardly any had been convicted and
the list was said to have left the impression that "provable abuse must have
been widespread." Mr Lawson, from West Derby, saidhe will now campaign for the
release of other care workers and teachers whom he believes are innocently
jailed. He said: "I simply could not defend myself because all the defence
witnesses were being discredited and the jury was being told they were
themselves being investigated.

"The investigations into child abuse in carehomes becamecompensation
contaminated. "People serving t ime in p rison knew they could make money
through allegations - even if the allegations fell down.

"There are around 120 care workers and teachers still protesting their
innocence.

"I am not bitter and I know the police have a tough job to do but I will
campaign for their release." The pair's successful appealhas put Merseyside
Police's Operation Careback under the spotlight.

Both men last night condemned t he "trawling" techniques used by detectives.

This method, which was criticised last year by MPs sitting on the home affairs
select committee, involves police following up an initial complaint of abusein a
children's home with interviews of others who lived there at the time. Mr Lawson
said: "The police methods need t o be subject to afull and proper judicial
inquiry.

"Trawling was indiscriminate and more akin to touting for allegations among
vulnerable people."

Mr Williams-Rigby said: "I feel very angry when Merseyside Police say they have
behaved impeccably.

"I am adamant the methodology was tainted. Witnesses were being contacted who
were serving life sentences in prison."

Mr Lawson's first request after his release was a guided tour of the Houses of
Parliament by Crosby MP Claire CurtisThomas, who has been fighting for his
release. He said: "I was used to only walking in the exercise yardand s aidI
wanted t o go for along walk."

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Q FREE: Care workers Michael Lawson and Basil Williams-Rigby whose
convictions were quashed; Q FIGHT: CurtisThomas

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       March 18, 2003, Tuesday Edition 1

Terror attack on student at station

BYLINE: By Louise Redvers , The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 395 words


   A shaven-headed lout has left a young student too scared to go out at night
time, following a terrifying attack.

The 19-year-old student was pounced on last week at Chillingham Road Metro
Station in Heaton, Newcastle.

The attack happened on the pathway leading from Chillingham Road down towards
platform two, at 7.15pm on Thursday.

The second-year university student, who three days earlier had been celebrating
her 19th birthday, was walking to catch a train to her boyfriend's house near St
James's Park when the man suddenly grabbed her from behind and wrapped her arms
around her body in the frightening encounter that lasted nearly five minutes.

Describing her nightmarish experience, she said: "I was on my way from my house
in Heaton to catch the Metro to go round to my boyfriend's.

"I was walking along with earphones on, but I could hear some footsteps and I
saw a shadow approach me.

"A man then reached out, grabbed my shoulder hard and spun me around. He was
muttering something, but I couldn't quite hear what he was saying.

"I screamed out at the top of my voice for help, but there was no one around to
hear me or to help.

"I was trying to shake him off but he had a really tight grip on me and was
squeezing me. It was really scary and I couldn't move."

After a few minutes, the teenager originally from Yorkshire, managed to shake
off her attacker and run home where she was comforted by friends.

The Northumbria University geography student was not hurt in the incident and
had nothing stolen, but she has been left extremely shaken and no longer feels
comfortable about using the Metro at night or travelling alone after dark. Her
attacker is described as white, aged between 25 and 35, between 5ft 1in and 5ft
3in, with a skinny build and a shaven head.

He was wearing a light-coloured puffa-style jacket and black-rimmed glasses.

Det Constable Andy Smith investigating the incident said: "We believe a Metro
train arrived seconds after the man escaped.

"Passengers who got off the train and walked up the pathway might have seen
something and we would like them to get in touch.

"We need help in tracing the man."

Anyone with any information should contact Newcastle East CID on [0191] 214 6555
ext 62245

A Nexus spokesman said; "this is a police matter and Nexus is co-operating fully
with this investigation."

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 March 19, 2003

Guidelines for terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 99 words


HOURS before the expected war, the Government has advised members of the public
to "go in, stay in, tune in" in the event of a terrorist attack on the UK.

In an updated website launched today, the Home Office is telling people to go
indoors and listen for specific instructions which will be broadcast on the
radio.

It says people should take "sensible precautions" such as having battery powered
torches, radio, ready to eat food, bottled water and blankets.

However, the Department says there is no need to take further measures such as
stockpiling food or buying a gasmask.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           March 19, 2003, Wednesday

TROOPS IN BIO ATTACK FEARS;
 WAR ON TERROR COUNTDOWN TO BATTLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 416 words


SADDAM HUSSEIN is preparing to use chemical weapons in a last stand,according to
intelligence reports.

The Pentagon claims the Iraqi leader has given field-level commanders the
authority to use them without orders from Baghdad.

Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman said: "We continue to receive reports
supporting the assertion that there is a high risk the Iraqi regime would use
chemical weapons at some point during any conflict."

Allied troops massed on the Kuwaiti border have been ordered to begin taking
their anti-nerve agent tablets.

The tablets,called Naps, short for Nerve Agent Pre-treatment Set, build up the
body's resistance to nerve agents and boost the effectiveness of emergency
injections given after a victim is contaminated.

But chief UN weapons inspector Hans Blix said he does not believe Saddam's
government will use chemical or biological weapons, even as a last resort,
because it would turn world opinion in favour of the US.

As the countdown to war continued, the UN completed the withdrawal of its
weapons inspectors and aid workers from the country,bringing down the final
curtain on the efforts to find a diplomatic solution to the crisis.

President Bush has given Saddam and his two sons until 1amUK time tomorrow to
flee Iraq or face war.

But officials in Washington have not ruled out an attack before then,
particularly since the Iraqi regime has flatly rejected Bush's ultimatum,
declaring that Iraq did not choose its leaders "by decree from Washington,London
or Tel Aviv".

That could mean an attack tonight. Britons still remaining in the Gulf region
were being advised to leave by the Foreign Office today.

The last advice from the Foreign Office was issued yesterday evening, warning
against nonessential travel to south eastern Turkey because of heightened
tension over Iraq and the threat of terrorism.

Updating its travel advice for the strongly Kurdish area, the Foreign Office
warned those already there to maintain a high level of vigilance and consider
whether it was essential they remain. The advice follows similar warnings about
Saudi Arabia,Syria,Yemen,Oman, Bahrain,Jordan,Lebanon, Kuwait, Qatar and Israel
and the occupied territories.

Meanwhile, Turkey's government said today it would ask parliament to grant the
US Air Force the right to use Turkish airspace in an Iraq war but would not
immediately ask the legislature to vote to allow in US troops which would open a
northern front against Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STAND-BY:British Harriers and right,loading bombs on US Tomcat; SIT IN
FOR PEACE: Top,More than 100 people made their feelings known during a peace
demonstration outside Liverpool town hall this afternoon as five protesters
chained themselves to the railings. Below right: Kurds waiting to leave.Left:
Saddam on Iraqi television

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           March 19, 2003, Wednesday

WE'LL NEVER FORGET HOW YOU SAVED US BUT GIVE OUR LIVES OF PEACE BACK SOON;
 COUNTDOWN TO WAR: BOMBS WILL SOOTHE TERROR ATTACK WOUNDS

BYLINE: ALEXANDRA WILLIAMS IN KUWAIT

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 650 words

HIGHLIGHT: DANGER: Sheep farmer Sami Alsharq is losing business aftre having to
move his flock; CONCERN: Watch repairer Saif Bori said yesterday: "We are afraid
here in Kuwait."


A KUWAITI man, his face wet with tears, embraces a strapping US soldier.

Below the image, reproduced on thousands of posters around Kuwait, are the
words: "We will never forget."

It is a photo taken in 1991 when the US and its allies liberated this tiny
country from Iraq. Kuwaitis will never forget. They remember with enormous
gratitude.

But probe beneath this sentiment and a tinge of resentment that the armies have
returned is evident.

Families are stockpiling food. Gas masks are strapped to people's hips at all
times. TV viewers are constantly reminded of the three warning sirens. Shelters
have been hastily erected. This oil-rich country - smaller than Wales - has also
experienced another change.

It has been chopped in half.

A line has been drawn from the south-west corner to the coast. The north is now
out of bounds to Kuwaitis. Farmers and their stock have been evicted to
transform the area into a vast military camp.

Sheep farmer Sami Alsharq, 32, praised the Americans before bemoaning the fact
that business is falling. His flock would normally graze in the lush grass near
the Kuwait-Iraq border. But they have been forced to move south to the Al-Rash
market.

He said: "The Americans and British are very good people. They saved us.

"But they have now made things dangerous. We cannot stay up by Iraq. But even
those shepherds who were brave enough to stay have been ordered out.

"Down here the grass is not as good. We are all penned up in small areas as soon
as one sheep gets ill it spreads. All we farmers do is sleep. Selling meat has
become very hard. People are not spending their money.""

Around 250,000 servicemen and women are now camped in the deserts near the Iraq
border. The arrival of foreign troops has increased the population of Kuwait,
which is 2.3 million, by roughly 10 per cent.

Normally at this time of year, before the temperature rises to 120 degrees,
Kuwaitis would be holidaying in the desert. This year they have been forced to
abandon their plans.

The six-lane road through the desert to the Iraqi border is being used by the
military.

In the port of Shuwaikh, in Kuwait City, the fishermen are also praying the war
is swift. Yesterday scores of men lay on their dhows. Some played dominoes,
others dozed.

Father-of-six Abdul Hussein Joher, 58, said: "Fishing is stopped until the war
is over. Finished. It's very, very bad and we worry."

There is also an evening curfew, prompted by fears of a suicide boat attack on
US ships as they unload troops and equipment.

Abdul said: "We have no money coming in. We would not criticise the Americans
because they saved us but we would like it if they could do their job quickly
because we have to get back to work."

Traders in Kuwait City are also feeling the pinch. Hordes of people crowded
around Bronze Line Gifts when watch repairer Saif Bori, 27, offered his views on
war.

He said: "We are very afraid here in Kuwait. We are scared for our safety and we
are scared for our livelihoods. It costs me 600 dinah (pounds 1,300) to rent my
shop each month. Yesterday I made 10 dinah all day."

He laughed when asked if he felt anger towards the Americans. "Anger? Of course
not. How could we? Saddam must go. We want a good result but we want it fast."

But neighbour, fabric trader Mohammed, disagreed: "You have to forgive and
forget. We have moved on since 1991. Leave Saddam alone and he will leave us
alone.

"What's the point of revenge? Why interfere? Bush is trying to rule the world."

But for those selling gas masks and other essential supplies business is
booming.

Mohammed Hassan, 29, works in Ahmed Al Saleh Supplies. He said: "I have sold
over 1,000 gas masks. We just had a mother in here who bought six. She wanted
one for her baby but we don't do those so I sold her tape instead to seal the
windows of her house."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           March 19, 2003, Wednesday

MOGADON COWBOY;
 COUNTDOWN TO WAR: BOMBS WILL SOOTHE TERROR ATTACK WOUNDS: BLINKERED

BYLINE: RICHARD WALLACE US EDITOR IN WASHINGTON DC

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 703 words

HIGHLIGHT: AVENGER: Bush goes on warpath; MISSION: US marines under their
national flag in Kuwait desert


CROSS-EYED and apparently feeling no pain, George Bush cocked America's trigger
in a speech which addressed America and Iraq, but pointedly ignored the rest of
the world.

The Mogadon Cowboy is defying international opposition and will take Iraq by
force, a tortuous and brutal retribution for the self-loathing that haunts
America - September 11.

It is that terrible, grotesque day that the president is ultimately avenging.

And the invasion of Iraq by a terrifying onslaught of US firepower will give
Americans the tangible retribution they have needed for 19 long months.

It cannot be underestimated how raw and impotent America has felt since that
day. A mighty superpower laid low in a matter of minutes by an unseen - and
until then largely unknown - enemy. They felt sucker-punched.

Bush vowed to get even, but with a hydra-headed enemy like al-Qaeda it has
proved impossible to deliver the physical satisfaction of kicking someone's
butt, landing that KO punch to say "Don't Mess with the US of A".

Saddam is undoubtedly a mad and evil tyrant. But for Mr Bush and his
war-mongering cronies, it's the apparent ease of the target that impresses.

All wars are political and to knock over a cartoon despot like Saddam with the
minimum of casualties but maximum "shock and awe" firepower will be like
national Viagra, restoring the US's potency in a matter of hours.

Suddenly the Stars & Stripes will be back flying with pride rather than sorrow.
His White House ultimatum echoed his words following 9/11 - a war on terror must
be fought. But there is still no conclusive link between terror and Saddam and
it is this urgency for war that has totally isolated the US.

Syria? Yes. Iran? They boast about it. And, of course, our good friends and
allies Saudi Arabia (18 of the 19 hijackers were Saudi), but there are political
allegiances and military complications to those alternatives.

By a sickening coincidence the existence of an al-Qaeda list of 20 top Saudi
families who have financed Osama bin Laden's crimes was revealed yesterday.

Hundreds of pages of names, cash payments, dates etc going back to the late
1980s illustrated how our longtime allies have encouraged and continued to
bankroll terrorism. It is the mother of all proof. They even gave the list a
nickname - The Golden Chain.

But getting into a scrap with the Saudis won't win Bush a second term in the
White House next year.

Wiping Saddam off the face of the earth, and chalking it up as a righteous
revenge for September 11, will.

Bush, his arm swinging manically, attempted to be statesmanlike, dropping his
John Wayne-style references to "smokin' out" terrorists and his hideously
inappropriate folksiness.

The lack of smirking, the absence of "heh-heh" bar-room gags exposed what a
shell he really is. As his eyes wandered across the teleprompter, his head
unnaturally still, it might well have been the world's most advanced robot.
Paroting words stitched together by a raft of aides the cod-Shakespearean
language did not hide the reality.

He droned: "The United States of America has the sovereign authority to use
force in assuring its own national security. That duty falls to me, as
commander-in-chief, by the oath I have sworn, by the oath I will keep."

Meaning - we'll bomb the crap out of anybody we perceive to be a threat and the
rest of the world can go hang.

With the doctrine of pre-emptive strikes, Bush's hawks have trashed 50 years of
diplomacy and international law. He blamed the UN for not living up to its
responsibilities - one of the few times his face registered emotion, as if he
had a foul taste in the mouth.

Whatever criticisms there are of the UN it has been a key plank in preventing a
global conflagration since 1945 and a vital forum for the disgruntled.
Fifty-eight years of effort out the window, no questions asked.

Has anyone in the Bush administration even read a history of Iraq?

The in-fighting of Iraqi opposition leaders ready to take over, citing perceived
slights going back years, has most ordinary Iraqis shaking their heads in
despair. They want Saddam gone, but what fresh hell lies in store?

r.wallace@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 March 19, 2003

London not prepared for terror attack says councillor

LENGTH: 392 words


A Bromley council leader has questioned London's ability to cope with a major
terrorist attack.

Councillor Michael Tickner said the borough's parks could be turned into
makeshift cemeteries in the event of a major terror strike according to
Bromley's council leader.

Speaking after being briefed on the capital's terror contingency plans
Councillor Michael Tickner said his borough was ready for an attack but
questioned London's readiness especially if there is more than one strike at
once.

He says there are not enough mobile decontamination units operated by
firefighters to deal with a large scale chemical emergency.

He said: "If there is a chemical attack in Bromley it would take 10 truckloads
to transport equipment which would be set up in a road such as Bromley High
Street.

"People who had been exposed to the chemicals would have to take off all their
clothes and walk through a long tunnel of plastic sheets while being sprayed
down with anti-chemical agents.

"It's cumbersome and takes a lot of people to operate. It's fine if there is one
attack but if there are more than one at a time there will be serious problems."

But the Minister for Fire and Emergency Services Nick Raynsford has slammed Cllr
Tickner's comments saying: "I am sorry he is making these comments before
checking his facts.

"There is a programme in place to ensure London can cope with chemical attacks
and a lot of new equipment has been procured.

"At a time when everyone in London is pulling together alarmist and unfounded
comments are very disappointing."

Cllr Tickner says Bromley Council is as prepared as it can be for a chemical
biological or nuclear strike.

He added: "An emergency room has been set up in the Civic Centre with a direct
phone line to the cabinet.

"We have thousands of sandbags shovels sleeping bags space blankets protective
clothing and 24-hour access to supermarkets and hardware stores if extra
provisions are needed."

An emergency incident control vehicle which can be used as a mobile briefing
room is being kept at the council depot.

Although he would not be drawn on specifics Cllr Tickner says massive casualties
would be dealt with quickly.

"There are plans to use parks as mass graves if an event occurred in which there
were mass civil deaths."

March 19 2003 14:00

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 March 20, 2003

New Guidance Over Possible Terror Attack

SECTION: News; Other; War; Pg. 4 2003BATHCH323newgu

LENGTH: 499 words


The Home Office issued new guidance to the public today, advising them to keep
tinned food, bottled water and a battery-powered torch at home.  In the run-up
to war in Iraq, ministers updated their guidance to householders on how to
protect themselves in the event of a major terrorist attack on Britain.

They stressed there was no specific information which had led them to believe
terrorists were planning a large-scale incident in the country, such as a
nuclear, chemical or biological attack.

But they advised the public: "It is sensible to be prepared for any emergency in
the home and to make plans for any major disruption, including severe weather
and floods." Advice posted on the Home Office's terrorist website said
householders should have on hand batteries, a battery-powered torch and radio,
ready-to-eat food such as canned goods, bottled water and blankets.

Telephone numbers of local police, council, utility companies and family members
should also be kept handy in one place, it added.

"Make sure you know where the main switches for electricity, water and gas are
located in your home, as you may need to turn them off in an emergency, " it
added.

"Continue to go about your dayto-day business in the normal way, but remain
alert and vigilant." A Home Office spokeswoman stressed the updated information
was not urging people to stockpile food and water.

"It's sensible to have a few bottles of water and some food around, just in case
supplies are cut off, " she said.

"It's certainly not advising people to stockpile against the threat of
terrorism." The advice urged members of the public to keep an eye out for
suspect bags, packages or vehicles and for people acting suspiciously at
stations or airports.

"Trust your instincts: if you feel something is wrong, ring the police, " it
added.

The website also stressed there was no need for the public to buy gas masks or
protective clothing.

In the event of a terrorist attack, the website advised: "If you are at the site
of an incident, follow the instruction of the emergency services.

"If it is a major incident and you are not in the immediate area, our advice is
to 'go in, stay in, tune in'.

"It is always sensible to have a battery-powered or wind-up radio in the house
to prepare for a range of emergencies, including power cuts and floods." The
Government would not be issuing a leaflet giving advice on a chemical or
biological attack, it added, because "there is no such thing as a standard
chemical or biological incident, and therefore no such thing as a standard
response".

If a terror attack takes place while children are at school, police will work
with schools to ensure children are protected, it said.

"The action taken would depend on the incident itself, and would not be very
different from the emergency plans that schools already have for fire
evacuations and bomb threats." The website can be accessed through www.
homeoffice. gov. uk.


LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 March 20, 2003

UK left open to terrorist attacks: DUP

LENGTH: 190 words


TONY Blair has left the UK dangerously exposed to terrorist attacks during war
with Iraq, DUP deputy leader Peter Robinson claimed today.

The East Belfast MP accused the Prime Minister of refusing to outline the
Government's internal security plans while conflict rages in the Middle East.

Even though President Bush has put in place defence schemes to prevent another
September 11-style strike, Mr Robinson warned No 10 was unprepared.

He said: "In the USA they have visibly increased security and the presence of
military personnel at possible targets.

"No such level of heightened security seems to be forthcoming in the UK."

He challenged Mr Blair to outline his plans to combat the threat.

"As Britain and the US engage with Iraq, the Government claim to have plans to
deal with any potential attack from the global network of terrorism. It is
essential that these plans are communicated to the people of the UK.

"It is time for Tony Blair to bring forward his internal security measures so
that the people of the UK can support his actions abroad in the knowledge of
security and safety at home."


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            March 20, 2003, Thursday

TERROR ON A TOWPATH;
 ATTACKS ON TWO WOMEN

BYLINE: ANNA WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 273 words


WOMEN in Solihull were today warned to avoid a canal towpath following
terrifying attacks on teenagers. The two assaults happened within minutes of
each other as the victims walked along the bank near Richmond Road, Olton,
yesterday afternoon. Detectives are now urging females to keep away from the
area until the attacker is caught.

He struck for the first time around 5.25pm.

A 17-year-old girl, from Solihull, was walking home alone when the offender
pounced from behind.

He grabbed her around the waist and dragged her into a nearby bush.

The hysterical teenager screamed for help and managed to fight off the attacker
before she ran to a nearby shop for help. Minutes later the same man struck in
Lincoln Road North - less than half a mile away.

He jumped on his second victim and once again dragged her into thick hedgerow
while kicking her and ordering her to be quiet.

Detective Inspector Mark Evans, of Solihull CID, said today: 'We are very
concerned about the conduct of this man.

'We are warning women to stay away from the area and be on their guard.

'They should not wander along the towpath alone. One could only guess at the
motives of this person, but we are taking the two incidents very seriously.'

The offender is Asian, aged between 20 and 22, 6ft 2in tall, of slim build, with
short dark hair and a distinctive large jaw.

Neither of the girls were hurt, but detectives say they were extremely disturbed
by the attacks.

A police helicopter joined officers in a hunt for the offender.

Anyone with information should contact DI Evans at Solihull CID on 0845 113
5000.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            March 20, 2003, Thursday

WAR IN IRAQ 2003: FEARS THAT ATTACK WILL BE TRIGGER FOR TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 360 words


A MILITARY onslaught against Iraq could destabilise the Islamic world, boost
terrorism and trigger huge social and economic problems in the volatile Middle
East.

Warnings over possible repercussions have ranged from nuclear strikes and the
creation of a new generation of suicide bombers, to humanitarian problems like a
refugee crisis and depressed oil prices hitting stability.

Analysts fear the prospect of images of Iraqi civilian casualties being beamed
around the Arab world could trigger an uprising against the West.

Syrian president Bashar al-Assad and President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt have both
warned that an attack on Iraq could widen the divide between Arabs and the West.

The difficult relationship between the Arab states and nearby Israel has been
tested to the extreme by the country's ongoing incursions on Palestinian
territory.

Saddam Hussein has threatened to strike Israel if he comes under attack. In
response Israel warned it would defend itself with all the means at its
disposal, a chilling threat from a nuclear state.

But any retaliation which was seen as an over-reaction - an accusation often
levelled at Israel over its attacks on the Palestinians - risks polarising the
region, and Saddam has been keen in the past to try to play on loyalties among
the Arab states.

Many have already proved to be far more reluctant to side with America than in
1991, when Iraq's invasion of Kuwait gave a solid political motive for action
against Saddam.

Most would not be sorry to see Saddam go - he has attacked Saudi Arabia, Iran,
Kuwait and Turkey in the last 20 years - but oppose military action and fear
that regime change would give too much influence to US interests.

Still more would prefer the international community solved the Israel- Palestine
conflict first.

Iraqi opposition groups have vowed to work together to achieve a free,
democratic country. But that prospect does not please all of the country's
neighbours, some of which are not themselves democratic and fear change could
spread to threaten their own regimes, and that puppet leaders would be
introduced to support the West.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            March 20, 2003, Thursday

NEW ADVICE ON TERROR ATTACKS;
 WAR IN THE GULF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 191 words


THE Home Office yesterday issued new guidelines to the public on how to protect
themselves in the event of a major terrorist attack in Britain.

In the run-up to war in Iraq, ministers warned people to keep tinned food,
bottled water and a battery- powered torch at home - and to have useful
telephone numbers handy.

But they stressed the move was not in response to any specific information on a
possible attack.

A Home Office spokeswoman said: "It's certainly not advising people to stockpile
against the threat of terrorism."

Advice posted on the Home Office's terrorist website urged people to keep an eye
out for bags, packages or vehicles and for people acting suspiciously at
stations or airports.

But it stressed there was no need for the public to buy gas masks or protective
clothing.

It added: "Continue to go about your day-to-day business in the normal way, but
remain alert and vigilant."

The website can be accessed through www.homeoffice.gov.uk.

Meanwhile, Britain's top scientists have been drafted in by the Royal Society to
prepare the country for a chemical or biological attack by terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2003 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            March 20, 2003, Thursday

WAR IN THE GULF: STADIUMS TO BE MORGUES IN TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 417 words


A SECRET list of hospitals and stadiums which would be turned into morgues in a
terrorist attack has been drawn up.

Scots health authorities have been given the names of venues which could be used
to store bodies.

Hospitals have been told to be ready to clear their morgues for an influx of
corpses and are on standby to help with casualties from any attacks.

St John's Hospital in Livingston, which has a specialist burns unit, is
understood to be expected to cope with the dead as well as taking in casualties.

However, the Scottish Executive insist their back-up plans are under wraps.

A spokesman said: "We have well-worked plans for emergencies."

Scottish police chiefs met First Minister Jack McConnell yesterday to discuss
security measures against any terrorist acts.

The biggest domestic fear is a chemical or biological attack on a city which
could result in thousands injured or killed.

Hampden stadium in Glasgow and Meadowbank in Edinburgh are likely to be turned
into makeshift emergency hospitals and morgues in any disaster.

The plans were revealed yesterday as the Home Office issued guidelines to the
public on how to protect themselves from a major terrorist attack.

Ministers warned people to keep tinned food, bottled water and a battery
-powered torch at home - and to have useful telephone numbers handy.

But they stressed the move was not in response to a specific threat.

A spokeswoman said: "It's certainly not advising people to stockpile against the
threat of terrorism."

The Home Office website - www.homeoffice.gov.uk - urged people to watch for bags
or vehicles and for people acting suspiciously at stations or airports.

But it stressed there was no need to buy gas masks or protective clothing.

It added: "Continue to go about your day-to-day business but remain alert and
vigilant."

A vaccination programme to protect medical workers against smallpox has also
begun.

Around 50 front-line health staff will be offered jags against the highly
contagious disease.

It is a key part of the Executive's outbreak plans drawn up last year.

First to be vaccinated are five-man volunteer teams, which include infectious
disease specialists, an A&E nurse and a paediatrician.

In the event of an outbreak, they would then vaccinate people around the source.

Mass inoculation was ruled out as the jag can cause complications, but enough
vaccine for every man, woman and child in Britain is being stockpiled.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2003 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 March 20, 2003

McConnell puts Scotland on full alert for threat of terror attack

BYLINE: Eddie Barnes

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 516 words


Scottish Political Editor SCOTLAND is preparing itself for reprisal terrorist
attacks in the wake of war on Iraq, Jack McConnell said yesterday.

The First Minister, who was briefed by police yesterday, assured MSPs that no
threat had been identified.

But he acknowledged there was 'clearly going to be an impact on Scotland' as a
result of the war.

The emergency services are on high alert should the worst happen and extremists
use the conflict as an excuse for terror.

Hospitals are ready to handle a potential chemical or biological attack, and
have been alerted to the possibility of receiving casualties flown home from the
front.

In an emergency statement to the Scottish parliament yesterday, Mr McConnell
conceded: 'Our country faces war.'

He added: 'These are deeply worrying times. No one can view the start of a war
especially a war with fearsome weaponry with anything other than horror.' The
First Minister paid tribute to Scotland's armed forces stationed in the Gulf.

The Royal Scots Dragoon Guards and the Black Watch have been deployed, in
addition to Royal Navy personnel from Rosyth and Royal Marines from Arbroath.

The Scottish parliament, he said, owed them 'our care and clear support'.

The First Minister said decontamination equipment and vaccines were ready in the
event of an attack in Scotland.

The country's eight chief constables have been placed on emergency alert.

They have agreed plans for each force to help the others in the event of any
attack.

During the conflict, Mr McConnell, Deputy First Minister Jim Wallace, Health
Minister Malcolm Chisholm and Parliament Minister Patricia Ferguson will meet in
a special contingencies group.

Mr Wallace, as Justice Minister, is also in charge of the nation's emergency
planning.

Mr McConnell said Scotland's economy and its tourist industry were vulnerable to
the war.

He was greeted by sustained applause by MSPs after warning that the country
would not tolerate any intimidation of ethnic groups in the wake of war.

War, he said, 'must not result in violence against other minority groups'.

He added: 'We will not accept such behaviour in Scotland, whether it takes the
form of bullying in schools or racially motivated attacks on people, their
property or places of worship.'

SNP leader John Swinney said yesterday: 'While we oppose this country going to
war, we can only pray for the safe return of our troops and express our support
to them and their families.'

The sombre parliamentary mood was interrupted briefly by Scottish Socialist MSP
Tommy Sheridan, who furiously dismissed the conflict as 'immoral and illegal.'

In what was seen as a clear attempt to be expelled from the chamber and thereby
gain publicity he embarked on a tirade against Mr McConnell.

He then refused to abide by parliamentary protocol by sitting down at the end of
his question.

His supporters, who packed the public gallery, also attempted to disrupt
proceedings.

They tossed confetti marked with antiwar messages onto the floor of the chamber.


LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       March 20, 2003, Thursday Edition 1

Britons facing terror attacks

BYLINE: By John Deane , The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS IRAQ, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 342 words


   Foreign Office warns of tourist risk

Britons around the world have been warned they face a heightened risk of
terrorist attacks during military action against Iraq.

The Foreign Office last night issued urgent new travel advice for travellers and
tourists to stay vigilant hours before the blitz on Saddam began.

It stated: "The risk of indiscriminate terrorist attacks in public places,
including tourist sites, will be especially high during military action in Iraq.

"You should be vigilant, take sensible precautions, be aware of local
sensibilities, monitor the media and check our travel advice for the country you
live in or plan to visit."

The Foreign Office also issued new advice relating to neighbouring Jordan,
advising against all travel to the kingdom.

The advice stated: "Military action in Iraq is imminent.

"There is an increased threat from terrorism to the safety of British nationals
in neighbouring countries.

"There is also a risk of the use of chemical and biological weapons by Iraq in
the event of hostilities.

" Jordan might be affected. We advise against travel to Jordan.

" If you are already in Jordan, we advise you to consider leaving while air
routes remain open, unless your presence is essential.

"If Jordanian airspace is closed, or flights are disrupted, we advise British
nationals to adopt a low profile, minimise travel and practice sensible security
precautions."

Britons living in Kuwait, Israel and the Occupied Territories, Jordan, Bahrain,
Syria, Qatar, Oman and Saudi Arabia were warned in the event of a chemical or
biological attack, they should follow the local authorities' and emergency
services' instructions.

The Foreign Office has already advised all British citizens to leave Iraq
immediately and hinted Western reporters could be lured close to military
targets to be used by the military as human shields.

It also warned of a potential breakdown in law and order in Iraq following
military strikes.

Foreign Office travel advice can also be obtained on 0870 6060290

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 20, 2003

War in the Gulf: Civil defence: Baked beans and batteries - the key to surviving
a terror attack: Home Office advises householders to lay in stores

BYLINE: Alan Travis Home affairs editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 414 words


Every home in Britain should keep on hand a few cans of beans, some bottled
water and some blankets for use in the event of a major terrorist attack, under
new Home Office guidance issued yesterday.

The emergency civil defence planners also believe everyone should have a supply
of batteries, a battery-powered or wind-up radio, and a battery-powered torch
alongside a supply of ready-to-eat food to help them through any emergency which
cut off access to power, water, and telephones.

The Home Office was keen to stress yesterday that there was no specific
intelligence which led them to believe that terrorists are planning a nuclear,
chemical, biological or other kind of attack in Britain.

But the advice posted on the Home Office website says: "It is sensible to be
prepared for an emergency in the home and to make plans for any major
disruption, including severe weather and floods."

At the same time the government announced it was postponing a civil defence
exercise simulating a terrorist strike on the London tube. "The government has
decided to postpone the counter-terrorist exercise planned to take place this
weekend at a London Underground station. This is due to the international
situation," said a spokesman.

More than 400 people, including fire, ambulance and police, were due to take
part in a five-hour simulated biological attack on the out-of-action Central
line at Bank station.

A Home Office spokeswoman said the updated guidance on how to cope a terrorist
was not urging people to stockpile food or water. "It is sensible to have a few
bottles of water and some food around, just in case supplies are cut off. It's
certainly not advising people to stockpile against the threat of terrorism."

The advice urges householders to keep the phone numbers of the local police,
council, util ity company and relatives handy in one place and says that "if
there is a major incident and you are not in the immediate area then the
official advice is to stay indoors and tune to local radio or television news".

The government says it will not give detailed advice in advance on how to
respond to a chemical or biological attack on the grounds that it would be
misleading as "there is no such thing as a standard chemical or biological
incident, and therefore no such thing as a standard response".

Instead information will be provided in the event of an attack. Further
information is available at homeoffice.gov. uk/terrorism.


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 20, 2003

War in the Gulf: Britons abroad warned of terror attacks

BYLINE: Colin Blackstock

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 277 words


The Foreign Office warned Britons around the world last night that they face an
"especially high" risk of terrorist attacks during the war with Iraq.

As British and American troops gathered on the Iraqi border, the Foreign Office
travel advice statement said: "The risk of indiscriminate terrorist attacks in
public places, including tourist sites, will be especially high during military
action in Iraq.

"You should be vigilant, take sensible precautions, be aware of local
sensibilities, monitor the media, and check our travel advice for the country
you live in or plan to visit."

It also issued new advice for Jordan, advising Britons in the kingdom to leave
if possible and warning against travelling there .

The advice stated: "Military action in Iraq is imminent. There is an increased
threat from terrorism to the safety of British nationals in neighbouring
countries.

"There is also a risk of the use of chemical and biological weapons by Iraq in
the event of hostilities. Jordan might be affected.

"We advise against travel to Jordan. If you are already in Jordan, we advise you
to consider leaving while air routes remain open, unless your presence is
essential.

"If Jordanian air space is closed, or flights are disrupted, we advise British
nationals to adopt a low profile, minimise travel and practise sensible security
precautions."

Britons who are living in Kuwait, Israel and the occupied territories, Jordan,
Bahrain, Syria, Qatar, Oman and Saudi Arabia were warned that in the event of a
chemical or biological attack, they should follow the instructions of the local
authorities and emergency services.


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 20, 2003, Thursday

THE IRAQ CONFLICT: EMERGENCY PLANNING - GOVERNMENT TERROR ADVICE ATTACKED AS
CHILD-LIKE' PEOPLE LIKE CHILDREN'

BYLINE: CAHAL MILMO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 571 words


THE GOVERNMENT was accused yesterday of failing to adequately prepare the public
for a terrorist attack after it issued "updated" advice telling people to buy
bottled water and canned food and listen to battery- powered radios.

Anti-terrorism experts said information released on the Home Office website
detailing what to do in a public emergency treated Britons "like children" by
giving only the most basic guidance.

The material was published as ministers announced that a large-scale exercise to
test the response of emergency services to a chemical or biological attack on
the London Underground, due to take place on Sunday, had been postponed.

The latest Home Office anti-terror bulletin, issued with the approval of David
Blunkett, the Home Secretary, confirmed that Britain was in a state of
"heightened readiness" for a terrorist attack to coincide with an assault on
Iraq.

Under the heading "The Threat", the warning said: "The principal threats come
from international terrorism and, in particular, extremist groups, including
those who erroneously claim to be acting for Islam. We are aware of the risk of
... terrorist groupings seeking to exploit military action against Saddam
Hussein's regime by further attacks."

But the advice also sought to calm fears about extremists operating within
Britain, saying that there were "no plans" to intern or detain Iraqi citizens
resident in the United Kingdom. An internment policy during the 1991 Gulf War,
which led to 91 Arab nationals - mainly Iraqis and Palestinians - being held
without trial in a camp on Salisbury Plain in Wiltshire was widely derided after
it emerged that most of the detainees were opponents of Saddam Hussein's regime.

Instead, the Government appeared yesterday to be concentrating on a message
asking for public vigilance, and suggesting measures appropriate for
circumstances from a chemical attack to bad weather.

Working under the formula of "go in, stay in, tune in", the online advice told
people to immediately head for their homes or any other safe location in the
event of an attack.

Prior to any incident, homeowners should have bought basic supplies and made
sure they could receive information on a battery-powered or wind- up radio.

The website said: "It is sensible to be prepared for any emergency in the home
and to make plans for any major disruption, including severe weather and
floods."

Terrorism experts criticised the message, saying it failed to go beyond what
common sense dictated.

Bill Durodie, of the Centre for Defence Studies at King's College London, said:
"Since 11 September, governments have wanted to be seen to be doing things.
Whether or not these measures have any practical use is questionable - it is a
sort of spin for emergencies."

The Home Office said that the website information was intended to set down basic
self-protection measures.

A new government website, separate to the Home Office portal and dedicated to
anti-terrorist measures, is expected to appear by the end of next month.

Sales of gas masks increased in London yesterday. One supplier said that sales
had risen from 10 to 100 a week since the Iraq crisis began. He said he expected
sales to hit 300 once the war began.

Security alerts also dogged commuters in the capital yesterday after abandoned
luggage forced the closure of the Jubilee line and the Docklands Light Railway.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 20, 2003, Thursday

BRITONS AT HIGHER RISK' OF TERRORIST ATTACK IN WAR;
 THE IRAQ CONFLICT: TRAVEL WARNING

BYLINE: CAHAL MILMO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 588 words


THE GOVERNMENT warned Britons across the world yesterday that they faced a
heightened risk of terrorist attacks during a war with Iraq.

A statement from the Foreign Office made clear that terrorist attacks were a
serious possibility, not just in high-risk destinations but in popular tourist
resorts across the globe. "The risk of indiscriminate terrorist attacks in
public places, including tourist sites, will be especially high during military
action in Iraq," a Foreign Office spokesman said. "You should be vigilant, take
sensible precautions, be aware of local sensibilities, monitor the media and
check our travel advice for the country you live in or plan to visit."

The Government also issued a final warning to Britons still in Iraq, including
journalists, to leave the country immediately. A spokesman said: "While we make
every effort to minimise the risk of collateral damage from proximity to
possible targets, some residual risk will always remain."

Travellers were urged to avoid Jordan, which borders Iraq, and Britons remaining
in Kuwait, Israel and the occupied territories, Jordan, Bahrain, Syria, Qatar,
Oman and Saudi Arabia were told to follow instructions issued by local emergency
services in the event of chemical or biological attacks.

In the UK, the Home Office issued updated advice telling people to buy bottled
water and canned food, and listen to battery-powered radios in the event of a
terrorist attack.

The material was published as ministers announced that a large-scale exercise to
test the response of emergency services to a chemical or biological attack on
the London Underground, due to take place on Sunday, had been postponed.

The Home Office bulletin said: "The principal threats come from international
terrorism and, in particular, extremist groups, including those who erroneously
claim to be acting for Islam. We are aware of the risk of ... terrorist
groupings seeking to exploit action against Saddam Hussein's regime by further
attacks."

Working under the formula of "go in, stay in, tune in", the online advice told
people to immediately head for their homes or any other safe location in the
event of an attack.

Homeowners should have bought basic supplies and made sure they could receive
information on a battery-powered or wind-up radio, it said.

The website said: "It is sensible to be prepared for any emergency in the home
and to make plans for any major disruption, including severe weather and
floods."

But the advice also sought to calm fears about extremists operating within
Britain, saying that there were "no plans" to intern or detain Iraqi citizens
resident in the United Kingdom. An internment policy during the 1991 Gulf War,
which led to 91 Arab nationals being held without trial in a camp on Salisbury
Plain in Wiltshire, was widely derided after it emerged that most of the
detainees were opponents of President Saddam's regime.

Sales of gas masks increased in London yesterday. One supplier said that sales
had risen from 10 to 100 a week since the Iraq crisis began. He said he expected
sales to hit 300 once the war began.

Terrorism experts criticised the Home Office message, saying it failed to go
beyond what common sense dictated. Bill Durodie, of the Centre for Defence
Studies at King's College London, said: "Since 11 September, governments have
wanted to be seen to be doing things. Whether or not these measures have any
practical use is questionable - it is a sort of spin for emergencies."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 March 20, 2003

War may spark terror attacks

SECTION: News; 999; Campaigns; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 450 words


War on Iraq could trigger a wave of terrorist atrocities as part of an uprising
against the West, senior officials have warned.  American and British targets in
both the Middle East and the West would be at risk from militant groups like al
Qaida, whose recruitment may be boosted by anti-Western sentiment.

High civilian casualties and a long, drawn-out campaign would heighten the risk,
officials including the former head of the British diplomatic service have
warned.

Steven Simon, the former senior director for transnational threats in the US
National Security Council, said recently so-called "soft targets" like tourist
destinations could come under attack.

War with Iraq would "spur a surge in attacks against US, UK and French assets"
in the Middle East, he told the Commons foreign affairs select committee, "as
well as opportunistic attacks against Westerners elsewhere".

"British diplomatic missions abroad will be at risk as well as areas or sites
frequented by British tourists.

"Businesses which are believed to be British may also become targets of
spontaneous violence as well as terrorist attack.

"British military personnel will also be subject to risks on par with the one
they faced at the height of violence in Northern Ireland," said Mr Simon.

He warned any military action against an Islamic country like Iraq would be
certain to boost al Qaida recruitment in the Gulf, the US and in Britain,
including in British mosques and prisons.

Such an increase in recruitment in Britain could lead to more terrorist cells
operating, and significantly heighten the danger of an attack.

Tony Blair and Home Secretary David Blunkett have both conceded there is "a mass
of intelligence" suggesting that Britain is under a continued threat of
terrorist attack. And former Cabinet minister Mo Mowlam launched one of the most
outspoken attacks on the potential consequences of the plans for war last
weekend, saying the West could become the best "recruiting agent" for terrorism.

"You don't beat terrorists by bombing them," she said.

"All you do is act as a very good recruiting agent for them because more young
people then turn toward the terrorists, and you alienate the complete civil
population because you bomb them.

"You beat terrorists by talking to them. It's the only way you can do it." Ms
Mowlam said she would have resigned from the Cabinet over the issue if she was
still in it.

And she added: "I don't think I could sit there with this going on." But Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw has said Britain would only back a US-led war if it felt
the moral justification was strong enough to convince not only the West but also
its critics in the Islamic world.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2003 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 March 20, 2003

Terror attack exercise postponed

BYLINE: Local London Reporter

LENGTH: 143 words


A simulation of a terrorist attack on London Underground
(http://www.thetube.com) planned this weekend to test the capabilities of
emergency services has been cancelled.

A spokesperson for the Department of Transport said the emergency planning
exercise had been delayed because of the war in Iraq.

"The Government has decided to postpone the counter- terrorist exercise. This is
due to the international situation " the spokesperson told Local London.

Hundreds of volunteers and emergency services staff were to have been involved
in the test run of London's ability to cope with a terrorist attack.

It is believed the exercise would have been carried out at Bank tube station.

This postponement comes as officials warn of a heightened risk of terrorist
attacks with military action beginning against Iraq.

March 20 2003 11:30

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 March 21, 2003

US authorities on high alert for terror attack

BYLINE: By Sean O'Driscoll

LENGTH: 391 words


SECURITY has been stepped up in Washington as America braced itself for possible
terrorist attack as the war against Iraq began.

Manholes around the city have been welded over and officials have hurried a
multi-million dollar project to put chemical sensors in subway stations.

Security has increased in hospitals and federal buildings while schoolchildren
are being prepared for car bomb or chemical attacks.

Angela Tighlemann, a school principal in North-West Washington, said she hoped
that a daily terrorist attack drill would eventually become automatic for the
children.

"We want to reach a point where they don't have to think about it, they respond
to an emergency," she

said.

"If it comes, there might not be any warning, they need to be prepared
themselves."

Lisa Farbstein, a spokeswoman for the Metro Transit Police who guard the
Washington subway, said that "quick masks" have been issued to their officers to
protect them in case of chemical or biological attack.

The Transit Police are also hurrying to install $ $ 1m dollar chemical detection
systems in each of twelve subway stations.

"We don't want anyone to know which stations we are putting them in, because
terrorists could go to another station. We can't give them any information they
might use to maximise an attack," she said.

Libby Lawson, a spokeswoman for the DC Water and Sewer Authority, said that the
authority had recently spent $ $ 5m on sensors, cameras and perimeter security
to ensure that the water supply remains secure.

The district police have also hurried preparations for chemical attacks and are
currently setting up a 60-person hazardous material unit, while another 160
officers have been trained in decontamination work. Sensors have also been
placed along roads and rivers to detect radiation.

George Foresman, deputy assistant for preparedness at Virginia Governor Mark
Warner's office, said that security had been stepped up in the Virginia suburbs
of Washington since President Bush's "end of diplomacy" speech on St Patrick's
night.

"We had talks with the people from Homeland Security Department that night, and
we've been moving fast since then. We've been preparing for this since last year
but now that war is upon us, there are constant updates and changes to be made,"
he said.


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            March 22, 2003, Saturday

MOTHER OF ALL BOMBINGS;
 MISSILES BLAST SADDAM'S PALACE BAGHDAD DEVASTATED IN ATTACK NEWSMEN TELL OF
FIRESTORM TERROR

BYLINE: Anton Antonowicz In Baghdad

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 826 words


THE mother of all bombings started last night at 9pm, Baghdad time.

Warnings had begun 55 minutes earlier, when the sirens began wailing and
sporadic anti-aircraft fire blazed into the sky.

There was a lull, a calm. And then the storm came.

The main target was clear and close - Saddam's domain just across the River
Tigris.

I stared ahead, slightly shell-shocked and ashamed to be also slightly crouching
while the photographers alongside me recorded the devastation of the massive
pile officially known as the Council of Ministers.

Unofficially, it is said to be the site of Saddam's bunker.

Whatever it was, it is no more. A series of bunker-buster bombs struck it dead
centre, leaving it little more than burning rubble by 9.45pm.

Each wave of bombs sent crushing shockwaves coursing through our balcony and the
room beyond.

The curtains billowed and I thanked God for all the chidings of my colleague to
cover those windows in clingfilm and duct tape.

Some 400 yards away from my room in the Palestine Hotel, just across the Tigris,
is one of Saddam's palaces - the most gaudy, the one with Iraq's mythical
leaders cresting each corner.

It is ablaze, along with many other buildings in a once privileged, tonight
cursed, compound.

It is as if Buckingham Palace, the White House, Parliament and Congress had all
been wiped off the map in 45 awful minutes.

The main symbols of sovereignty in one nation have been obliterated.

I have been in many places, in many wars but never had to endure anything close
to the 45 minutes which have just elapsed.

In every direction, north, west, south or east, there were explosions, too many
of them to count.

The number of buildings ablaze was also countless, in a seemingly relentless and
remorseless eruption. Then a terrifying heart-stopping void of a noise gushes
above the hotel.

One of my colleagues believes it is an F-16 Eagle ground attack fighter jet.

Something is released and a huge plume of smoke and flame erupts across the
riverway.

The distance of the explosion is difficult to gauge. There is ack-ack fire
returning from the ground. The noises are elemental. Awful.

The sheer ferocity of last night's attack stunned even reporters with years of
war experience behind them. Baghdad-based war correspondent Peter Arnett said
the bombardment was "much bigger" than anything he witnessed in the previous
Gulf conflict. Ten buildings in front of his hotel were destroyed in just a few
minutes.

"This is just like something out of an action movie, except it's real," he told
NBC News.

Sky News's David Chater said: "I can't tell you what has been hit but I can hear
the wailing sirens of ambulances racing through the city.

"There are now fears of many, many casualties. The hospitals will be overflowing
tonight.

"I can hear the screaming of a jet engine. And another.

"There has been an explosion. It looks like the next phase of this is being
carried out by bombers. There are raging fires in the city centre, some of them
around the presidential palace.

"I've never seen anything like it, a firestorm of missile attacks, or bombs, I'm
not sure which.

"Huge shock waves are sweeping across the city.

"It was extraordinary. The Pentagon had long been threatening shock and awe but
I have never seen anything like it.

"This latest attack was very different from earlier. We've had cruise missiles.
We've had 1000 lb smart bombs.

"I could hear jets screaming across the Tigris and they seemed to be bombing on
buildings already hit."

"There have already been a large number of civilian casualties from the previous
two nights but they were nothing like this.

"It is inevitable that in a city like this, so many people, that people are
going to be caught. The casualty wards are filling. It is inevitable."

Ian Glover James, of ITV News, said: "The entire city centre has been shaking
with massive explosions, several buildings are on fire, there are plumes of dark
smoke going into the night sky.

"There are five or six at least, major targets, huge high-rise buildings.

"At least one I believe is one of the presidential palaces, several must be
government ministries, they're in that district of the city."

Michael Nicholson, ITV's correspondent in Baghdad, said: "It's just
unbelievable. The city is almost on fire now.

"On the left hand side here, I think one of the royal palaces has been hit.

"All we can see now are palls of smoke moving from right to left and in between
these huge balls of orange flame as Baghdad is now slowly burning.

"We do have a bird's eye view of the destruction that is now taking place. This
is nothing like we have seen these past few nights.

"We've never seen anything like this - they are destroying Baghdad."

US news station CNN was last night ordered out of Iraq by the government, who
accused it of spying for the American government.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2003 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 22, 2003

TERROR ATTACKER'S 12 YEARS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 101 words


A DRUG addict who attacked the 73-year-old uncle of former Rangers player Stuart
McCall was jailed for 12 years yesterday. John Johnston, 30, left John Clark, of
Hamilton, Lanarkshire, bleeding during a robbery last May.

Lord Nimmo Smith told Johnston at the High Court in Edinburgh: "Somehow you got
into his house where he should have been safe.

"You broke his cheekbone, his jaw and several ribs and you badly damaged one of
his eyes. You left him helpless and he lay there for the best part of two days."

"You have as good as killed him."

Mr Clark is still in a rehabilitation unit.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            March 22, 2003, Saturday

WAR IN IRAQ: ALERT OVER TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 119 words


AUSTRALIA today warned that terrorist groups may be planning an attack on
Westerners in the Indonesian city of Surabaya over the next few days.

Australia's foreign ministry said it had "credible information that terrorist
groups with a history of targeting Westerners and Western interests may be
planning terrorist activity on or about March 23 in Surabaya, Indonesia".

The ministry advised Australians not to travel to Surabaya and told those
already there to stay indoors and use extreme caution.

Surabaya, on Indonesia's main island of Java,has been the scene of street
protests against the USled military attacks on Iraq. Australia has contributed
2,000 troops to the war against Saddam.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 22, 2003, Saturday

Fears over terror attack lead to panic buying

BYLINE: Valerie Elliott and Jill Sherman

SECTION: Home news; 9

LENGTH: 734 words


BOTTLED water companies are raiding their reserves as shoppers stock up amid
fears of terrorism or disruption of the national water supply.

The leading supermarket chains have reported increased sales of bottled water,
particularly in London and the South East.

In a number of supermarkets near the M25, shelves have been emptied of water.

There were also reports of some stores limiting the number of purchases as a
result of panic buying.

The stockpiling of bottled water came as domestic water suppliers were told to
step up security measures to protect reservoirs and treatment works against
chemical contamination, although there is no specific threat to supplies.

The panic buying follows Home Office advice this week for households to keep
emergency provisions of bottled water, although some firms believe the
unexpected warm weather may have contributed to the sales.

Highland Spring, which sells nearly five million litres of mineral water a week,
has been inundated with requests from stores for more water. The production line
at its main plant at Blackford, near Perth, is already operating 24 hours a day,
seven days a week.

A spokesman said: "We are very, very busy and we are having to go into our
stocks to meet demand."

Highland Spring also supplies Tesco's own brand of Mountain Spring water, which
may also account for some increased business.

At Spadel UK, which imports Spa water from Belgium and distributes Brecon Carreg
water from a plant in Wales, Ian Hall, the firm's general manager, was watching
the market.

If consumer demand continues this weekend he is ready to introduce three-shift
working at the Welsh plant to meet orders. Staff are already being trained for
this extra shift, which was intended to coincide with the growth in sales
expected during the summer.

Mr Hall said: "The panic buying seems to be concentrated in London and the South
East and at present it is difficult to detect a national pattern. It could be
that people feel safer outside the South East."

At Sainsbury's at the O2 Centre in northwest London shoppers were stocking up on
bottled water as well as tinned goods and dried foods.

Rima Elassaad, 31, a mother of two, had filled her trolley with 17 bottles of
water. She said: "I always get bottled water for my children because I don't
want them to drink tap water. I am scared supplies will run out."

Mike Duncan, 33, lives above the 24-hour Tesco supermarket in West Cromwell
Road, West London, and usually buys just a few items daily. But yesterday he
bought more than usual.

"I saw other people buying up goods so I thought I had better stock up too," he
said.

Three nurses who share a house bought water, tinned goods, batteries, candles
and matches.

Claire Lucas, 26, said: "I do not really know what is going to happen so I am
getting prepared."

Her flatmate, Annette Willsher, 24, added: "I am more concerned living in London
because I think it is more of a target for terrorists."

The nurses said Tesco staff had been allowing customers to buy just two packs of
water because the demand had been so great.

Shoppers at Waitrose in Marylebone, Central London, were also stockpiling goods.

Petrouchka Stafford, 30, who bought bottled water and torches, said: "You have
to be prepared because they could contaminate the water and bring London to a
standstill. I think it's worth it."

Despite the stockpiling of goods, the leading retailers said panic buying was
unnecessary and that there were plenty of supplies.

To maximise the safety of water supplies, officials at the Department for
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs have been working closely with the water
industry. Defra said this was one of its top priorities.

A security adviser from Water UK, which represents the industry, has attended
emergency contingency meetings at the Cabinet Office and all water companies
have been urged to update their plans.

Extra mobile patrols and security guards have been deployed in areas that could
be vulnerable to terrorist activity and some firms have increased their testing
frequencies.

Firms supplying domestic water said that there was no specific threat to water
supplies but acknowledged that they had updated contingency plans as a result of
recent events. Thames Water said that security had been stepped up at all points
of the water chain.


LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                 March 23, 2003

THE TERROR ATTACKS OF 11 SEPTEMBER HAVE CHANGED THE FACE OF AVIATION FOREVER AND
THE CORPORATE TRAVEL MARKET IS NO EXCEPTION.

BYLINE: Tracey Boles;

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 424 words


The terror attacks of 11 September have changed the face of aviation forever and
the corporate travel market is no exception. A variety of services has sprung up
to meet the demands of executives who want to avoid the hassle of flying
conventionally but have seen their corporate travel budgets shrink.

Booking an executive jet is about to become as easy as buying a ticket for a
low-cost airline with the launch of a new service by Bombardier Flexjet Europe
to be called Skyjet Europe, which will allow customers to book flat-rate fares
according to destination, as on conventional airline services.

Flexjet has previously charged customers per hour flown and required them to
promise they will fly a minimum of 25 hours a year. The new service, to be
launched within the next few weeks, is an extension of one which has operated in
the US for several years.

Flexjet believes the European market, where it has enjoyed 30% annual growth
over the past four years, is still underdeveloped. The company experienced a
surge in interest after 11 September caused companies to shun business class
travel on scheduled airlines. Customers will be able to choose from four
different-sized planes and 250 destinations out of 80 UK airports.

Bombardier targets its business jets at corporations and high net worth
individuals who do not want the expense of a business jet on their balance
sheet.

There are currently 100 customers, corporate and private, in the company's jet
membership programme attracted by the freedom of the service which lets them fly
around several European airports in one day.

Warren Buffett's rival service, NetJets, which plans to launch in Russia soon,
sells shares in jets, operating in a similar way to a time share.

Clients buy a "fraction" of an aircraft and can then fly for a certain number of
hours, depending on how much of the plane they buy. It does not come cheap: a
one-sixteenth share of a plane costs about $250,000 upfront, then there is a
monthly management fee and a pay-as-you-go charge of over $1,000 an hour.

Fractional ownership suits those who fly 50-500 hours a year; those who fly less
would do better with charters, such as Manhattan-based Blue Star Jets.

The number of fractional jet owners grew by 22% from 2000 to 2001 while the
charter-by-demand market jumped 30%.

Frustration with increased airport security has pushed many executives into the
charter market, where a broker bids out travel plans to a collection of private
jet operators to get the cheapest price.


LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2003 Sunday Business Group

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The News of the World

                                 March 23, 2003

US SARGE IN TERROR ATTACK ON TOP BRASS

BYLINE: Neil Michael

SECTION: GULF WAR II

LENGTH: 258 words


    Officers' grenade horror+PM popularity soars+Elite ops revealed

    A US sergeant was held last night after a grenade attack on an American base
in Kuwait.

    Sixteen top brass with 2nd battalion of 101st Airborne Division were injured
when grenades were rolled into a group of three tents in Camp Pennsylvania.

    Colonel Ben Hodges and a number of majors and captains were among the
wounded who came under small arms fire as they ran from the tents.

    Shortly after the attack, the un-named US sergeant-who had access to
munitions-was reported "missing".

    Witnesses said he had been "acting strange" moments before the attack.

    He was later found cowering in a bunker with a gunshot wound in his leg.
When asked if he'd been injured when he'd thrown the grenades, he answered:
"Yes".

    He is believed to be a black Muslim attached to the 2nd battalion of the
101st Airborne Division. Two Kuwaiti nationals employed as interpreters were
also arrested but later released.

    Security was immediately tightened at the base, which had already been on a
high state of alert.

    The injured soldiers, who arrived at the camp seven days ago and were due to
take part in a massive push into Iraq, were taken to a field hospital by
helicopters.

    Of the 16 wounded, eleven were in a "serious" condition.

    Colonel Chris Holden, head of a battalion of the 101st Airborne Division at
nearby Camp New York, said: "When you have someone inside your camp who is
dedicated to throwing a grenade inside a tent, there isn't much you can do."


LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             March 23, 2003, Sunday

Consumer anxiety skews the economy Spending on big ticket items is well down,
but warnings about terrorist attacks have led to a run on bottled water and
batteries, write Robert Watts and Damian Reece

BYLINE: By ROBERT WATTS AND DAMIAN REECE

SECTION: Pg. 08

LENGTH: 984 words

The British economy has seen an immediate change in spending patterns in the
first week of the war, prompted in part by Home Office advice last Wednesday to
lay in stores of bottled water, batteries and torches in case of terrorist
attacks.

Although the conflict in Iraq is thousands of miles away, consumers are behaving
as though the UK is under siege. Gas mask sales are soaring and some
supermarkets are reporting sharp increases in sales of canned goods.

Meanwhile, travel companies are cancelling their advertising, while many London
commuters are giving a much-needed boost to London's taxi cabs by shunning the
Underground.

The manager of a Robert Dyas hardware store in the City of London estimates that
the shop sold about 100 torches in two days following the Home Office advice. In
less than a day's trading it had sold out of D-size batteries, which power
larger torches. Energizer, which supplies Robert Dyas, has seen demand for
batteries increase fivefold since Wednesday night.

Graham Taylor, the marketing manager of Robert Dyas, says sales of batteries and
torches increased 500 per cent across the country last week. "Sales of water
filters and duct tape have doubled too, although I'm not sure exactly why," he
says. "Are people taping up windows?"

Robert Dyas has also sold out of wind-up radios, another item on the Home Office
list of useful items to have at hand in case of a terrorist-induced power
failure.

At Waitrose, the supermarket group owned by John Lewis, there was a surge in
sales of canned meat, canned fish, bottled water and baby food on Wednesday
night and Thursday. "A mad Wednesday night was fuelled by the Home Office
statement and a horror headline in the Evening Standard," the company said.

An Asda spokesman said that sales of bottled water increased by 20 per cent last
week. "But any surge in spending is patchy," he observed. "There's a lot more in
London and the South East, whereas the Scottish have been sanguine. We've seen
no increase in sales of tinned food or water north of the border."

A visit to the Haywards Heath branch of J Sainsbury, West Sussex, on Friday
confirmed the apparent paranoia that is gripping parts of southern England. It
had run out of still bottled water. Up the road in Crawley, Tesco's water
supplies were running very low, but staff at both stores stressed that
deliveries were on the way.

However, it is not just food that people are stockpiling. Spymaster, a shop in
the West End of London that sells bullet-proof jackets and an array of espionage
gear, sold 100 gas masks a day last week.

"They usually just sit there gathering dust . . . We barely sell one a week,"
says Julia Adams, the store's manager.

Adult gas masks retail for pounds 100 to pounds 200, while baby and child gas
hoods, which have also been selling strongly, fetch a heftier pounds 587.50. At
least 40 people have shelled out pounds 528 each for a full nuclear, biological
and chemical suit, complete with filter, boots and mask.

"People are very nervous, very worried, especially those using the Tube," Adams
says. "They feel they aren't being told the whole story by the Government, and
need to protect themselves.

"We even had a builder in from Leeds who said that he didn't feel safe working
in London. He took a stack of our brochures back with him to the site because he
knew colleagues would be interested."

Nervousness about the possibility of an atrocity on the Underground has heralded
a mini-boom for London cabbies. "People are telling me all the time they don't
want to use the Tube," says Jim Kaye, a taxi driver from Romford. "It's partly
that they don't want to be in a confined space if something nasty happens."

Vivian Blick, the operations director of Freeplay, which makes wind-up radios
and torches - which are sold in Argos and John Lewis - says: "Business has gone
ballistic. We saw a tenfold increase in the sale of radios and a fourfold
increase in the sale of torches on Thursday and Friday," he says.

But while consumers are stocking up their bunkers, spending on the pleasures of
life took a dive last week. Holiday bookings tumbled 40 per cent, according to
leading tour operators. They are now hastily cutting the number of holidays
available for this summer to avoid oversupply and a damaging price war.

"Holiday sales started to go down as soon as we saw pictures of tanks at
Heathrow," says Manny Fontenla-Novoa, the chief executive of Thomas Cook UK.

"This past week the industry is 30 to 40 per cent down, with the worst-affected
areas being the eastern Mediterranean, including Cyprus and Greece, Turkey and
Egypt."

But holidaymakers who have already bought their trips to sunnier parts seemed
phlegmatic about the conflict. "We had three aircraft leaving for Egypt last
week and we had only two no-shows," said Fontenla-Novoa.

Travel companies and airlines started pulling advertising campaigns last week.
ITV has eliminated the advertising break during its special 9pm news bulletins.

And it disclosed that British Airways has cancelled adverts for its Club World
promotion, while the Irish Tourist Board and Expedia, the online travel company,
have followed suit.

Newspapers have also been affected. "If you look at this morning's Daily Mail,
you have to turn to page 15 before you see an advertisement," says Peter
Williams, the finance director of the Daily Mail and General Trust.

"The lead-up to this conflict has created uncertainty in the travel, airline and
hotel categories," says Mick Desmond, the joint managing director of ITV.
"Advertising of high-ticket items has also been hit.

"Our April forecast for revenues is to be up 3 to 5 per cent but some of that
depends on the war.

"When there is uncertainty, our ability to look forward is very limited. There
is no clear view of what revenues look like going forward."
[PS]City: [ES]

Business - Focus:

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                             March 23, 2003, Sunday

WAR DAY FOUR: AMERICANS INJURED IN TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 119 words


TEN American military personnel were injured in a terrorist attack on a US
command tent in northern Kuwait last night.

Witnesses say they saw two grenades rolled into the tent, occupied by members of
the 101st Airborne Division, which exploded seconds later.

Ten people were injured in the attack, six of them seriously. They were treated
at the scene by medics before being ferried to and army field hospital.

There were also reports of small arms fire at the camp in Qatar, forward
headquarters of the US Central Command.

Spokesman Lieutenant Commander Charles Owens confirmed the attacks last night.
He said the injured were rushed to a field hospital but had no word on their
condition.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Wales on Sunday

                             March 23, 2003, Sunday

TERROR ATTACK ON US CAMP IN KUWAIT;
 US SOLDIER HELD AFTER GRENADE BLAST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 893 words


A TERROR attack on a US military camp left 13 servicemen injured and one soldier
missing in the early hours of the morning.

The triple grenade attack hit the US 101st Airborne Division's New York camp in
Kuwait.

And last night there were reports that a Patriot missile intercepted a Scud
above Camp New York.

Confusion surrounded the grenade attack with some reports claiming that two
Kuwaiti nationals carried out the attack while other reports suggested that an
American soldier may have played a part.

Last night a US soldier, believed to be a Muslim, was being questioned by the
Americans.

There were reports that he was responsible for throwing grenades into the
commanding officer's tent.

The attack followed a series of heavy explosions in Baghdad as the coalition's
aerial assault on the Iraqi capital resumed as evening fell. Nine large
explosions shook the city's outskirts just after dark.

The renewed air attack on the Iraqi capital came on the back of daylight raids -
the first of the war. Then as night fell, anti-aircraft tracer fire tore across
the sky.

It was believed that United States B-52 and Stealth bombers were in action over
Baghdad, plunging large parts into darkness. Oil wells could be seen burning
outside the city.

However, early indications were that the assault on the city was not as strong
as Friday night, with some of the focus of the attack switching to the northern
city of Mosul where explosions and anti-aircraft fire were heard.

Iraqi TV reported that a ruling Baath party leader was killed in clashes in the
desert between US and Iraqi forces near Najaf, north of Baghdad, at 10pm our
time.

During the third day of war, the Americans launched 500 cruise missiles on Iraq.
The United Nations scrambled food aid to the north yesterday as 500,000 Iraqis
were reported to be fleeing the invasion.

Iraqi television last night claimed Saddam Hussein was alive and well, and
showed him meeting with top officials.

Yesterday the US commander heading the coalition's military operations, General
Tommy Franks, said the unfolding campaign was 'unlike any other in history'.

He released grainy aerial photographs, apparently showing lines of hundreds of
Iraqi soldiers snaking across the desert to surrender.

A Pentagon briefing last night claimed up to 2,000 soldiers had thrown down
their arms.

However, there were reports of unexpected heavy fighting around Iraq's second
city, Basra, despite claims that the entire Iraqi 51st Division had given itself
up. Iraq denied the surrender.

The day also brought further coalition casualties with the deaths of seven Royal
Navy aircrew - one of them an American officer - in a mid-air collision between
two Sea King helicopters from HMS Ark Royal over the Gulf.

Sky News reported that four American marines first feared killed had actually
only been injured in an ambush in central Iraq. There was no clear figure of
Iraqi casualties.

At least one journalist was killed in north east Iraq and ITV reporter Terry
Lloyd, cameraman Fred Nerac and local translator Hussein Othman were all missing
after reports they came under 'friendly fire' near Basra.

General Franks, in his first public appearance since the start of hostilities in
the early hours of Thursday, said he was satisfied with the progress the
coalition forces had made in the first 72 hours of the conflict.

'This will be a campaign unlike any other in history,' he told a news conference
at his headquarters in Qatar.

'A campaign characterised by shock, by surprise, by flexibility, by the
employment of precise munitions on a scale never before seen.'

His words were echoed in London at a Ministry of Defence news conference by
defence secretary Geoff Hoon.

'This operation is going according to plan and is, in many respects, ahead of
plan, but I don't think it is sensible to go further than that,' he said.

British and US commanders were at pains to stress that all the targets were
precisely selected in order to minimise civilian casualties.

The targets hit included the complex of government buildings on the west bank of
the River Tigris in Baghdad, as well as missile sites, air defences and
command-and-control bunkers.

Mr Hoon said the aim was not to reduce Iraq into a 'wasteland'.

'As (Friday night's) dramatic television pictures showed, the lights stayed on
in Baghdad but the instruments of tyranny are collapsing,' he said.

British and US warplanes flew more than 3,000 sorties on Friday while hundreds
of Tomahawk cruise missiles were launched from warships in the Gulf.

General Franks acknowledged that contact was continuing with senior Iraqi
officials, suggesting support for the regime was fracturing.

'We have ongoing dialogue with a number of senior Iraqi officials. Those
discussions with people will continue in the days ahead,' he said.

General Franks indicated that Basra would not be stormed. Coalition commanders
are anxious to avoid getting sucked into street-to-street fighting and were
instead hoping that there would be an internal uprising.

'We expect we will work with Basra and the citizens of Basra,' he said. 'This is
about liberation, not occupation.'

Elsewhere, the US Army was said to have made advances in the west, seizing two
bridges over the River Euphrates.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 24, 2003, Monday

THE IRAQ CONFLICT: US RENEWS MISSILE ATTACK ON ISLAMIC 'TERROR GROUP';
  NORTHERN IRAQ

BYLINE: PATRICK COCKBURN IN ARBIL, NORTHERN IRAQ Soldiers fighting for the
Patriotic Union of Kurdistan have launched attacks against Ansar al-Islam EPA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 551 words


THE US launched missiles for the second day yesterday against an Islamic group
based in Kurdistan which is accused by the US of having links with al-Qa'ida and
Baghdad.

The US attacked positions of Ansar al-Islam in their mountain stronghold close
to the Iranian border. There were also ground attacks by the Patriotic Union of
Kurdistan (PUK), which controls the surrounding territory.

At the same time American planes started landing on small airfields in
Kurdistan, bringing in soldiers expected to play a role in opening up a northern
front. Hoshyar Zebari, a high-level Kurdish official, confirmed that several
dozen US soldiers had landed at Harir, a small airstrip in the mountains 40
miles from Arbil. Scores of US troops also flew in to Bakrajo airstrip near the
eastern city of Sulaymaniyah. Al-Jazeera television said yesterday another plane
with 280 soldiers on board had landed.

There was no visible activity in Harir yesterday and the Kurdish guards said
they could not admit anybody to the airstrip. The US troops were originally
meant to come two months ago, but their arrival was delayed while the US tried
to get Turkish agreement for military support.

The soldiers who arrived at Bakrajo did everything possible to preserve secrecy,
flying in on four planes which landed without lights and took off immediately
afterwards.

The assault on Ansar al-Islam did not get off to a good start. Of the 57 people
killed by US missiles and bombs, all but two were from another Islamic group
called the Komala Islami, a purely Kurdish group, who were sleeping in their
headquarters building. Before the war began, Komala Islami announced that they
did not want to fight the US.

Ansar retaliated for the air strikes on Friday night with a car bomb which
exploded at a checkpoint, killing five people, including Paul Moran, an
Australian cameraman.

Ansar was yesterday reported to have retreated into the mountains in the face of
a PUK offensive. In the past, Ansar has shown that, though only a few hundred
strong, it can fight hard and has used suicide bombing and assassination as
effective weapons.

Ansar sprang to prominence when it was accused by the US of having links to both
al-Qa'ida and the government in Baghdad, though this seemed an unlikely
alliance. Mullah Krekar, the leader, has vehemently denied this from Norway,
where he is exiled. It is more likely that the group depends on a measure of
Iranian support and tolerance.

Mullah Krekar has always declared that his aim was "to bring down the Iraqi
regime and replace it with an Islamic regime". Within its enclave, Ansar has
carried out measures similar to those applied by the Taliban in Afghanistan,
such as banning music, dancing, alcohol and television.

It is possible that some of the recently arrived US troops will be used against
Ansar, which was denounced by Colin Powell, the US Secretary of State, as having
links to the Iraqi government. This is an unlikely thesis given that it is
primarily a Kurdish and Islamic organisation, not a combination likely to endear
it to Saddam Hussein.

Its prominence is probably due to a decision by the PUK that the existence of an
extreme Islamic group on its territory could be used as propaganda tool to
mobilise US opinion against Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                             March 24, 2003, Monday

VIEW POINTS: WE WILL BLAME TONY BLAIR FOR TERROR ATTACKS ON THIS COUNTRY

BYLINE: DEREK HANLIN GELLI ARAEL ROAD, GILFACH GOCH, PORTH

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 183 words


THE question has been asked: will we blame Blair if there are terrorist attacks
in this country? Well yes, we will.

Bush and Blair, the Christian leaders of the free world, are about to unleash a
massive bombardment on the civilian population of Iraq.

This will result in tens of thousands of civilians' deaths, it will displace up
to two million people and will leave some 10 million people needing humanitarian
assistance. The people who carry out this killing of civilians, the smashing of
hospitals, schools, water treatment plants, roads and bridges will be in
uniforms, so this is somehow acceptable behaviour.

The people who retaliate will not be in uniforms so therefore it will be
unacceptable behaviour.

Are we therefore saying that it is acceptable to sit in an aircraft two miles up
in the sky dressed in a smart uniform in no danger and getting paid to drop
cluster bombs on civilians of another country?

But then not acceptable for someone not in uniform to plant a bomb in the city
centre of the country that is responsible for the attack on their country?

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           March 26, 2003, Wednesday

'Hitler' Mugabe launches revenge terror attacks

BYLINE: By Peta Thornycroft in Harare

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 373 words

PRESIDENT Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe has compared himself to Adolf Hitler.

At the state funeral of one of his cabinet ministers, Mr Mugabe said: "I am
still the Hitler of the time. This Hitler has only one objective, justice for
his own people, sovereignty for his people, recognition of the independence of
his people, and their right to their resources.

"If that is Hitler, then let me be a Hitler tenfold. Ten times, that is what we
stand for."

Hours later members of the Zimbabwe National Army, including Mr Mugabe's elite
force, the Presidential Guard, began a pre-dawn rampage in revenge for the
opposition general strike last week.

The attacks left more than 250 people injured, scores of them seriously, but
victims remained defiant yesterday. Patricia Mukonda, 27, a secretary at the
head office of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change, needed hospital
treatment.

Up to 60 members of the Guard and other soldiers arrived in two armoured
personnel carriers in Mabvuku, a working class suburb east of Harare, and
attacked under cover of darkness.

Bursting into her house, they accused her of burning three buses during the
two-day strike.

"They beat me all over," she said, adding that she was sexually assaulted with a
baton while her six-year-old son was forced to watch.

"They said I was [MDC leader Morgan] Tsvangirai's prostitute," she said.

"They roped me to the window sill, took a glass and broke it, and pushed my left
arm on to it and I fainted. They heard a woman crying and rushed out and my
brother came in and took me to a field, and I slept."

Miss Mukonda, who is chairman of her local residents' association and has been
arrested five times, said the soldiers promised to return to Mabvuku and kill 20
people by the end of the month.

"They have to come at night when we are sleeping, when we are weak," she said.

"What hurts my mind is that I am in hospital, and I should be revenging. I will
be the first soldier of the MDC."

The United States condemned the regime's actions and said the attacks were
directly linked to Mr Mugabe's "Hitler" remarks.

President George W Bush has frozen the assets of Mr Mugabe and 76 other
government officials, accusing them of undermining democracy.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                                 March 26, 2003

Terror attack film for schools

LENGTH: 452 words


A VIDEO advising young children what to do in the event of a terrorist attack
could be provided to primary schools across Swindon.

Swindon Council's emergency planning officer Sam Weller has bought several of
the public information video called Go in Stay in Tune in which cost £17.50 each
but has yet to decide whether to distribute them to libraries and schools across
the borough.

The thrust of the seven-minute video produced by Training Videos Associates is
to inform children of what to do in the event of a chemical spillage with the
same principles being applied with a terrorist attack in the UK in light of the
war on Iraq.

The target audience is seven to 11-year-olds with the video advising them to
stay inside and monitor events on television.

The action focuses on three friends as they respond to a chemical tanker
accident near to their homes.

But the town's headteachers have said the film is totally inappropriate and some
say they will refuse to show it.

"There is little children can do about the war and it would not be constructive
to show the video to them " said Andrew Nye head of Seven Fields Primary School.

Moredon Junior School head Lauren Connor echoed his feelings and said: "It's not
appropriate and would only make the situation worse for the kids. They are
already talking about the war and attacks and some of them are scared. I would
always ask parental permission to show something like this anyway."

However emergency planner Mr Weller said: "The threat assessment is low for this
area but we are in constant touch with the police and partner agencies and we're
certainly not complacent just working to make Swindon safe.

"Spare batteries candles and tinned food are necessary in the event of any
emergency but we have got to be very careful about when and how we give out
information because I don't want to be seen as being alarmist in any way.

" I would hope we would be robust enough to deal with whatever is thrown at us."

There is no evidence that Swindonians have been stockpiling food and water as in
the United States but the close proximity of RAF Fairford from where American
B-52 bombers have been flying scores of bombing raids to Iraq has heightened
tension in Swindon.

Local government emergency planners create strategies to deal with the threat of
natural disasters like floods and earthquakes chemical nuclear biological and
radioactive attacks.

TVA spokesman Alan Davies said: "The video was produced predominantly for areas
where there might be a higher risk of major incidents.

"It has been widely distributed across the UK and we have had great interest in
it in the light of current circumstances."

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            March 27, 2003, Thursday

TRIADS TERROR;
 GANG FEAR OVER BRUTAL ATTACK

BYLINE: Andrew Walker Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 287 words


A CHINESE gambler has been beaten up in an attack thought to be linked to Triad
debts.

Kam Mau Law, 42, had to be treated in hospital after a gang of heavies pounced
on him.

The attack came minutes after an argument inside a Glasgow city centre casino.

The Record revealed police fears about mounting Triad-related violence last
week.

A spate of attacks has heightened fears about the activities of groups like the
Wo Sing Wo, 14K and Snakeheads in Scotland.

Our investigation revealed the grip they have on the Chinese community.

As well as running extortion, protection, vice and drugs rackets, Triad gangs
traffick in illegal immigrants.

Investigators told of their frustration as they try to stem the tide of people
arriving in Britain after being smuggled here by the Snakeheads.

The latest attack happened at 9pm on Monday in Waterloo Lane, Glasgow.

Mr Law had been in the Gala Casino in Bath Street. Police sources said he was
seen "having a discussion" with another Chinese man.

On leaving the building, Mr Law was confronted by a gang of four Oriental men.

He was pushed into the poorly lit street and beaten over the head.

After the gang ran off, he managed to raise the alarm and was treated in the
Western Infirmary before being allowed home. A police source said: "We think
this centres on Triad debts.

"The discussion inside seems to have been over a debt of some kind

"The victim was struck over the head with some kind of blunt instrument.

"We haven't been able to get a great description of his attackers."

A police spokeswoman appealed for witnesses, adding: "The casino would have been
busy and there may have been people who saw what happened."

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2003 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 27, 2003, Thursday

GULF WAR 2: SADDAM'S MEN POUR FROM BASRA IN SURPRISE ATTACK: LEGACY OF TERROR AS
RULERS FLEE COALITION ADVANCE

BYLINE: TOM NEWTON DUNN WITH 40 COMMANDO NEAR BASRA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 369 words

HIGHLIGHT: SAFE: Fahed, 4 days old, is given British aid yesterday


"YOU must protect us," Nadia pleaded with Royal Marines Major Paul Underwood,
after barricading herself in her family home. "You don't know the danger I'm
in," the three-months pregnant woman said.

As the wife of the only one of 50 police who did not flee the town of Al Faw
when the Marines arrived on the first night of war, locals have threatened to
terminate her pregnancy with a knitting needle.

Her husband burned his uniform in the town square to protect his family from
retribution as servants of Saddam's regime. But in southern Iraq the tyranny is
loathed by the Shiite and Marsh Arab population.

Here, the Ba'ath Party murdered and tortured at will to maintain their iron grip
on power.

And it is why so many Ba'ath Party members have disappeared off the face of the
earth, long before we even reached them.

While pockets of regular Iraqi soldiers obeyed orders, stayed and fought, their
political masters fled.

The deserted Ba'ath HQ in Sahib, 20km south of Basra, is typical of what 40
Commando has found on its 70km push north.

It stands out as the only painted building protected by defences.

Inside marines found four months worth of UN food aid - a means of controlling
the town's 200 families with hunger. A cynical, evil ploy which worked. Saddam's
men had gone but their ghosts remained.

While locals thanked and chatted to commandos in broken English, as a journalist
I was black-balled.

Abbas, a man in his 30s, said: "Nobody will talk to you. Saddam's people will
kill any man, woman or child who does. Saddam is not finished yet. When he is,
we talk then."

This culture of fear is hindering progress for the commandos.

Major Underwood, 39, from Poole, Dorset, said: "Some of them seem to be bursting
at the seams to tell us things. But they are still terrified of retribution. I
put it down to years of oppression and fear."

At 5pm yesterday a junior Ba'ath Party member sent to spy on coalition troops
gave himself up at Sibah.

While he had lost the will to fight, he told of others planning guerilla warfare
on British troops in Basra.

It seemed the regime may have fled, but the city is a long way yet from being
out of harm's way.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 March 27, 2003

Teachers Knock Terror Attack Film

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 6 2703WESTDP2A3teach

LENGTH: 100 words


Headteachers yesterday hit out at plans to show a video on how to deal with
terrorist attacks to children as young as seven. Council chiefs want to
distribute a £17.50 public information video called "Get in, Stay in Tune" to
primary school showing how to cope with a chemical or biological attack - or an
atrocity on the scale of September 11.

But teachers in Swindon, Wiltshire, fear the tape will terrify children who are
already upset by the war in Iraq. Lauren Connor, head of Moredon Junior School,
said: "It's not appropriate and would only make the situation worse for the
kids."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 March 27, 2003

'Pillar of society' was sex attacker who brought terror to suburbs

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 523 words


A TEENAGE sex attacker who terrorised his neighbourhood while living a double
life as a pillar of society was jailed for life yesterday at Leeds Crown Court.

Mortgage adviser Nicholas Wright was only 19 when he tried to rape three young
women in a series of increasingly violent late-night attacks in Bingley, Baildon
and Shipley last year.

In a courtroom packed with Wright's friends and family as well as his victims,
Mr Justice Holland sentenced him to three life terms, with a minimum tariff of
five years in prison.

He said psychiatric reports showed Wright, now 20, was such a serious danger to
women he had no choice but to jail him despite his unblemished record as a bank
employee and a keen cricketer who helped to train youngsters.

He said: There are two groups in this courtroom. One group knew you as a young
man of positive good character.

The others know only too well the dark side of your character. They know only
too well why you are here.

One outstanding characteristic of these attacks was the escalating level of
violence. By the third attack, it became violence for its own sake.

The impact on each victim has been serious. It will take each of them a long
time to sustain any significant recovery and it will never be complete.

Mr Justice Holland said Wright would not be released until a parole board was
satisfied he was no longer a danger to women.

The police hunt for Wright began on April 20 last year when he attacked a
20-year-old woman as she walked home just before midnight in Salts Mill Road,
Shipley.

He dragged her on to waste ground where he sexually assaulted her, covering her
mouth as she screamed. Two passers-by, who had noticed him following her,
intervened before he could rape her.

On July 13 he struck again, using the same method of driving round lonely
streets looking for a young woman alone. This time he dragged an 18-year-old off
Park Road, Bingley, and into the Prince of Wales woods. He repeatedly punched
her but she managed to fight her way free.

On August 24 he targeted a 24-year-old woman in Green Road, Baildon, pushing her
up an embankment and beating her about the head. Again, her screams attracted
passers-by and Wright fled.

During the struggle she bit his finger. His blood was later found on her
underwear, providing DNA evidence which linked him to the first attack. Police
then released an electronic image which led them to Wright, of Scott Lane, East
Riddlesden, Keighley.

He pleaded guilty to three charges of attempted rape.

Det Supt Phil Sedgwick of West Yorkshire Police said officers were not searching
for anyone else in connection with two other less serious assaults in the
Bingley area last summer but they would interview Wright in prison.

Speaking after the hearing, he said: I'm told by people who know him that he was
a decent lad with a decent job but they only knew one side to him. The victims
saw his darker nature. Who knows what his character was really like?

The secretary of Baildon Methodist church cricket club, where Wright played for
several years, said everyone was stunned by his confession.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2003

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 March 28, 2003

Police primed for terror attack

BYLINE: Johnathan Schroder

LENGTH: 323 words


AN EMERGENCY meeting was called by Enfield police chiefs to calm fears of a
terrorist attack in the borough.

The "public reassurance" event on Friday was organised in the wake of military
action in Iraq and the growing fear of retaliatory chemical biological and other
terror assaults on the capital.

Concerns were raised in Enfield before last Thursday's declaration of war
following the discovery of the deadly poison ricin in Haringey in January.

The meeting held at Enfield Civic Centre was led by new borough commander Chief
Supt Simon O'Brien who aimed to assure residents there is no specific threat to
Enfield but that people should be wary and tell police if they see or hear
anything that could be suspicious.

Chief Supt O'Brien said: "There is no specific risk in this borough but we have
the ability to respond to any threat and have plans to deal with incidents of
all types. I am confident that we can respond to the most anyone can throw at
us."

He said that as part of the reassurance exercise two dedicated security vehicles
will patrol vulnerable parts of the borough 24-hours a day. Chief Supt O'Brien
admitted that some officers would be involved in security operations in central
London as they had since September 11 but made an assurance this would not
affect general policing in Enfield.

Cllr Mike Rye said: "We don't expect any difficulties but the message about
communicating concerns is very important. Enfield has a huge number of people
with different backgrounds and religions and the communities must work
together."

Leader of the Racial Equality Council Chaudhury Anwar said: "We want community
cohesion and have to demonstrate that we can work together."

Residents are urged to contact police if they have any worries about suspect
premises on 8345 1380. Call the anti-terrorism hotline on 0800 789321 if you
have any other useful information.

March 28 2003 12:30

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 March 29, 2003

Terror Attacks Planned

SECTION: News; Other; War; Pg. 5 2903BRISEP1C3terro

LENGTH: 103 words


The Us State Department has said it had information that Iraqi intelligence
officers planned terrorist attacks against US interests in two foreign
countries. In both cases, the operatives were arrested, terrorist material was
confiscated and attacks were not carried out, spokesman Richard Boucher said.

The United States has asked a number of countries to expel suspected Iraqi
intelligence officers based on "the significant threat posed by their presence,
"Boucher said.

He declined to identify the two countries in the alleged terror plots, but a
counter-terrorism official said one was Jordan.


LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 29, 2003

PLANS DRAWN UP TO BEAT TERROR ATTACK AT HOME; BRITAIN FACES FOOD RATIONING

BYLINE: By Rachel Baird Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 2

LENGTH: 633 words


SHOPPERS will be plunged into the nightmare of food rationing following a
terrorist atrocity in Britain, it emerged last night.

The Government is dusting off its longestablished plans to impose restrictions
on essential goods because of the threat.

The seriousness of the situation was highlighted by Tony Blair. He warned that
the public had not yet woken up to the dangers facing the country.

"I believe that there is this new security threat and I think that we really
haven't opened our eyes to it, " he said. "I think America has, in a sense,
because of September 11, because it was such a gross atrocity that it shook and
changed its entire psychology."

Large-scale rationing of food, clothes and fuel was abandoned after the Second
World War in 1954.

But it could be needed again if an attack sparked mass panicbuying and
subsequent shortages or if a major food-producing area of the country was hit,
experts said.

Ministers have been warning for months of the high risk of a terrorist attack
and it has increased since the start of the war in Iraq.

Details of the rationing review were given in a Parliamentary answer from
Treasury Minister Ruth Kelly to Paul Keetch, Liberal Democrat MP for Hereford.

It said: "HM Treasury is reviewing its areas of responsibility with regard to
civil contingency planning."

The answer also gave a list of those areas of responsibility, which include
rationing, protecting art treasures and the transport and banking industries.

Bomb attacks against "soft" targets such as cinemas, nightclubs and railway
stations are feared to be the most likely method for terrorists.

The seriousness of the threat was underlined yesterday by the news that police
will be issued with pocket-size radiation detectors following any explosion. The
devices will alert officers to the deadly but imperceptible radiation which
would be released by a "dirty bomb".

Government officials were reluc tant to talk about preparations for rationing
because they fear panicbuying if people believe that supplies will dry up.

But the Treasury has told MPs that the Home Office, Cabinet Office and
Department of Work and Pensions are also involved in the review.

Terrorism expert and author Simon Reeve said restrictions could be needed
following a variety of possible attacks.

"Public panic could lead to people stockpiling food and then shortages
developing, " he said.

"You would need to ration to ensure that the most vulnerable people still had
access. And if there was a smallpox outbreak in a major food-producing part of
the country it would have to be quarantined, which could lead to shortages in
other areas."

Blood could also be in short supply, and the Government's disaster planning
website has just been linked to National Blood Service appeals for donors. The
news came as:

At least one British soldier was killed in a "friendly fire" attack by a US jet.

One of Iraq's top chemical and biological weapons experts was paraded on TV in
an unmistakeable sign that Saddam Hussein is ready to unleash his terror
arsenal.

Iraqi paramilitaries opened up with mortar fire on terrified civilians
attempting to flee Basra.

HMS Sir Galahad landed more than 650 tons of badly-needed humanitarian aid at
the Iraqi port of Umm Qasr.

The US announced that it was sending another 120,000 troops to Iraq.

Meanwhile, the Red Cross has produced more than three million information cards
telling people how to deal with a terrorist attack.

The card gives advice similar to that issued by the Home Office, suggesting that
people have important phone numbers handy, as well as an "emergency bag"
containing bottled water, highenergy food, a radio and torch with spare
batteries, medication and a first-aid kit.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 29, 2003

TERRORIST ATTACK COULD SET OFF RATIONING

BYLINE: By Rachel Baird Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 546 words


SHOPPERS will be plunged into the nightmare of food rationing following a
terrorist atrocity in Britain, it emerged last night.

The Government is dusting off its long-established plans to impose restrictions
on essential goods because of the threat.

The seriousness of the situation was highlighted by Tony Blair. He warned that
the public had not yet woken up to the dangers facing the country.

"I believe that there is this new security threat and I think that we really
haven't opened our eyes to it, " he said. "I think America has, in a sense,
because of September 11. It was such a gross atrocity that it shook and changed
its entire psychology."

Large-scale rationing of food, clothes and fuel was abandoned after the Second
World War in 1954. But it could be needed again if an attack sparked mass
panicbuying and shortages or if a major food-producing area of the country was
hit, experts said.

Ministers have been warning for months of the high risk of a terrorist attack
and it has increased since the start of the war in Iraq.

Details of the rationing review were given in a Parliamentary answer from
Treasury Minister Ruth Kelly to Paul Keetch, Liberal Democrat MP for Hereford.

It said: "HM Treasury is reviewing its areas of responsibility with regard to
civil contingency planning."

The answer also gave a list of those areas of responsibility, which include
rationing, protecting art treasures and the transport and banking industries.

Bomb attacks against "soft" targets such as cinemas, nightclubs and railway
stations are feared to be the most likely method for terrorists.

Police will be issued with pocket-size radiation detectors following any
explosion. The devices will alert officers to the deadly, but imperceptible,
radiation released by a "dirty bomb".

Government officials were reluctant to talk about preparations for rationing
because they fear panicbuying if people believe that supplies will dry up. But
the Treasury has told MPs that the Home Office, Cabinet Office and Department of
Work and Pensions are also involved in the review.

Terrorism expert and author Simon Reeve said restrictions could be needed
following a variety of possible attacks.

"Public panic could lead to people stockpiling food and then shortages
developing, " he said.

"You would need to ration to ensure that the most vulnerable people still had
access. And if there was a smallpox outbreak in a major food-producing part of
the country it would have to be quarantined, which could lead to shortages in
other areas."

Blood could also be in short supply, and the Government's disaster planning
website has just been linked to National Blood Service appeals for donors. The
news came as:

At least one British soldier was killed in a "friendly fire" attack by a US jet.

One of Iraq's top chemical and biological weapons experts was paraded on TV in
an unmistakable sign that Saddam Hussein is ready to unleash his terror arsenal.

Iraqi paramilitaries opened up with mortar fire on terrified civilians
attempting to flee Basra.

HMS Sir Galahad landed more than 650 tons of badly-needed humanitarian aid at
the Iraqi port of Umm Qasr.

The US announced that it was sending another 120,000 troops to Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 March 29, 2003

Our terror attack ordeal

BYLINE: Clare Cook (ccook@lancashire.newsquest.co.uk)

LENGTH: 552 words


AN elderly couple today spoke of the moment a thug barged into their home and
subjected them to a frenzied assault.

John and Jean Conroy both 74 today appealed for people to help the police catch
the "vile horrible creature" who left them needing hospital treatment.

John was locking his bungalow door when the man in his mid-20s forced his way
into their home in Plantation Street Accrington.

John spoke of his shock today as the attacker reigned punches on his body and
struck him across the front and back of his head with a sharp implement.

Wife Jean is so distressed she is now too scared to leave the house alone.

The man escaped with a handbag and £100 after the incident which has shocked
local people.

Police said both the public and criminal communities should be "disgusted" by
the attack.

John was returning from a night out at Rishton Conservative Club at around
9.15pm on Wednesday when he was beaten-up. He suffered blows and lacerations to
his head and hands.

The grandfather of nine said: "He must have waited for a door to open to take
his chance and has prayed on frail people.

"I was just about to put the latch on behind me when he burst into the house and
attacked me. He hit me on the front of my head then the back.

"He just kept saying 'give me your money' and threatening me with harder
blows.."

He said the attack had shattered his illusion that their home was a "heaven on
earth".

Brave wife of 53 years Jean was in the front living room of the house when she
heard all the noise. She has been left deeply distressed and is suffering
nightmares.

She said: "Words can hardly describe this man -- he is just a vile horrible
creature I grabbed him by his hair when I saw John. I tried to dial 999 but he
knocked me away from the phone.

"I started getting really angry and shouted 'Get out of my house' and tried to
push him out but he knocked me over. He saw something on the worktop marked Bank
of Ireland but it was only a calculator. Then he saw my handbag near the window
grabbed it and made off."

Jean has lost a treasured crucifix brought back from Rome as well as all her
credit cards and around £100.

The couple's family have also been left deeply distressed. Daughter Julie
Preugschat 41 of Baxenden said she was now "worried sick" for them both.

And her sister Maureen Conron 42 of Lane Street Accrington said: "We are all
shocked that something like this has happened when you just think it happens on
television. It has been very traumatic to see two of society's most vulnerable
people assaulted."

The community has also been united in their concern for the pair.

A neighbour in Plantation Street who declined to be named said: "Everyone is
very shocked by what has happened. The path is used by all sorts these days and
we are now vary weary indeed."

Detective Sergeant Jim Elston described the attack as "callous" and praised the
couple for their bravery.

The man described as having short mousy coloured hair is thought to have made
off by the only door at the rear of the house.

The handbag was black from Marks and Spencer with a twist clasp and a
distinctive yellow heraldic crest with the name Conroy on.

Anyone with information should contact Accrington police on 01254 353717.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Wales on Sunday

                             March 30, 2003, Sunday

SUICIDE ATTACK TERROR;
 DEATH OF FOUR SOLDIERS JUST THE BEGINNING - IRAQ'S CHILLING WARNING

BYLINE: LAURA KEMP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1119 words


IRAQ has warned the suicide bombing which killed four American soldiers "is just
the beginning".

Signalling a new and deadly twist in the war, the bomber blew himself up at a US
military checkpoint in southern Iraq yesterday.

Saddam Hussein has awarded him posthumous medals while Iraqi TV described the
attack as the "blessed beginning on the road of martyrdom".

Iraq's vice president Taha Yassin Ramadan said: "This is just the beginning.
You'll hear more pleasant news later.

"It will be routine military policy. We will use any means to kill our enemy in
our land and we will follow the enemy into its land."

The suicide attack, near the town of Najaf, happened when troops from the US 3rd
Infantry Division approached a taxi which had pulled up at a checkpoint.

The driver reportedly waved for help, but as they drew near the vehicle
exploded.

US Major General Victor Renuart, the coalition director of operations, said
security at checkpoints would be reviewed in the light of the attack.

"That kind of activity is something that is an example of an organisation that
is beginning to get a little bit desperate," he said.

The officer said he had received no "firm indication" that groups linked to al
Qaida - which has frequently adopted suicide attacks in the past - were active
in the area.

He added, however: "My sense is that it is certainly not beyond the realm of
possibility."

The bombing came after another British soldier was missing feared dead and four
others wounded in a suspected friendly fire incident.

The men of the Household Cavalry's Blues and Royals squadron came under fire
during a raid on Basra by a US A-10 "tankbuster" aircraft firing depleted
uranium shells at two armoured vehicles on Friday afternoon.

It brings the total number of British soldiers killed in the war to 23 and the
fifth to die from friendly fire. Only four have been killed by the enemy.

The Pentagon has said American forces will begin an air campaign against
Saddam's Republican Guard south of Baghdad.

And eradication of the dictator's Ba'ath party within the Basra province of Iraq
is now the British military's "primary focus". Army spokesman Colonel Chris
Vernon said yesterday British troops must now convince the people of Basra to
have confidence "to rise against the oppressive political control" of the
regime.

Meanwhile, on Friday night British troops from the Black Watch mounted a
lightning raid into the southern city of Basra destroying five Iraqi tanks - and
two statues of Saddam Hussein.

The raiding party, armed with Milan shoulder-launched rockets, entered the city
in Warrior armoured vehicles, supported by Challenger tanks, wiping out a number
of Iraqi mortar positions.

A military source said that the destruction of statues of the Iraqi dictator had
been intended to send a clear message.

"This is a message to the people of Basra that these guys are consigned to
history," the source said.

In a separate action, special forces - most probably the Special Boat Service -
called in close air support from US warplanes after spotting what was said to
200 Ba'ath Party militias gathering for meeting.

According to the sources, the two F-15Es totally destroyed the building they
were meeting in, killing everyone inside.

The two attacks represent part of a concerted attempt to dislodge the militias,
which still hold sway in the city, through a combination of aggressive
patrolling and a "hearts and minds" campaign to win over the population.

The British forces have set up a radio station broadcasting information and news
in Arabic, mixed with Western and local music.

US commanders sought to play down reports that they had ordered a four to
six-day "pause" in their drive yesterday, following their initially fast advance
towards the Iraqi capital.

However, US Major General Victor Renuart, the coalition director of operations,
acknowledged that their supply lines, extending hundreds of miles across the
desert, needed reinforcement.

"When a mechanised armour unit pushes forward rapidly in the field, the units
with ammunition have to follow along behind. There is a period of time that it
takes to keep that supply train moving and make it robust," he said.

He added that the coalition was still investigating whether its forces had been
responsible for Friday night's blast in a Baghdad market, which the Iraqis said
left more than 50 dead.

But Downing Street last night cast doubt on the Allies being responsible for the
bombing as Saddam sacked his commander of air defences after a series of
surface-to-air missiles malfunctioned and landed on residential areas of
Baghdad.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman stopped short of saying that Iraqi
missiles were responsible for the explosions in two market places in the city.

But he said that the new intelligence gave reason for "scepticism" over Saddam's
claims that the Coalition was to blame for the blasts, which together killed
around 65 civilians.

And defence officials said yesterday that no British troops had been reported
missing overnight after reports that up to five had been captured in Basra.

There were also reports last night that henchmen loyal to Saddam Hussein had
ordered the execution of a British soldier in Allied-controlled Southern Iraq.

They sanctioned a hit against one or more men belonging to the Royal Irish
Regiment as a bloody act of reprisal for the troops' invasion a week ago.

It is also understood they wish to terrify the local population to prevent
further co-operation with the occupying force which is currently peace-keeping,
bringing in food and medical aid and restoring power and water to the
beleaguered region.

American President George Bush last night warned that anyone committing
atrocities against the Iraqi people would be "hunted relentlessly and judged
severely".

WAR BRIEFING

Large explosions rocked central Baghdad and Mosul last night.

UK tanks destroy Basra's Militia HQ and TV station.

US planes hit Iraqi troops heading south to confront the coalition.

Coalition forces use 6,000 guided bombs and 675 cruise missiles in the conflict
so far.

US say Iraq still poses a threat to neighbouring countries.

Iraqi government predicts war could last for months.

Tony Blair and Jacques Chirac have agreed on the importance of the United
Nations' role after the war in Iraq.

Artillery fire has been heard north of the port of Umm Qasr, one day after
humanitarian aid started arriving there.

Iraq says 2,000 civilians fired on by coalition troops in Basra.

Former Foreign Secretary Robin Cook demands: "Pull out our troops."

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 March 31, 2003

Fear of terror attacks sparks alarm

BYLINE: By Sean O'Driscoll in Washington

LENGTH: 261 words


THERE was tightened security in Washington today after the State Department
claimed that Iraqi agents were planning terrorist attacks against Americans.

Police helicopters hovered low over the city at the weekend as residents
prepared for what many believe is an inevitable attack from Iraqi agents or
Islamic extremists.

State Department spokesperson Richard Boucher announced in Washington yesterday
that Iraqi agents had been arrested in two countries while planning terrorist
attacks against US interests.

He declined to say which two countries were involved, but one official told
reporters after Mr Boucher's briefing that Jordan was one of the countries
involved.

Mr Boucher said that in both countries monitored by the US, the Iraqi agents
were arrested and terrorist material was confiscated before an attack could be
launched.

He made his comments only days after the US government ordered the last three
Iraqi diplomats in Washington to get out of the country.

The three had been working through the Algerian embassy and were under heavy
surveillance in recent months.

The State Department declared the men "personae non grata", meaning that their
diplomatic immunity would be lifted if they stayed on in Washington.

A call to the Algerian embassy in Washington yesterday revealed that the three
men had already left the country.

The United States has also asked countries around the world to expel suspected
Iraqi intelligence officers based on "the significant threat posed by their
presence," Mr Boucher said.


LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               PR Newswire Europe

                             March 31, 2003 Monday

Union launches terror attack campaign

LENGTH: 368 words


ATTN: News desks

Britain's largest private sector union has launched a campaign to protect its
members from terrorist attack as a result of the war in Iraq.

Amicus represents hundreds of thousands of workers in the aerospace and defence
industries believes that major employers are ignoring Government guidelines on
chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear attack [CBRN] because they fear
employees would leave if the likelihood of a terrorist attack was discussed
openly.

The move comes in the wake of a Securicor run seminar for business chiefs
earlier this year which outlined the possibility of several different terrorist
attacks including gas release in the underground and the possibility of aircraft
being crashed into Canary Wharf.

The union believes that employers are wilfully ignoring what is the biggest
Health and Safety issue of the 21st Century and has organised a conference next
month for Health and Safety Reps with speakers from the Metropolitan Police, the
Fire Service and the Royal Institute of International Affairs.

Chris Ball, Head of the Amicus Working Environment Unit, said:

"Many thousands of our members are at direct threat from terrorist attack. We
believe that employers have an absolute responsibility to protect their
employees from the clear and present danger of terrorism.

"Amicus already has a proven record of protecting our members in life sciences
who have been threatened by anti vivisection extremist and we take our
responsibility to our members very seriously. We will be issuing a set of
guidelines to Amicus employees in each of our offices in the capital and around
the regions."

Roger Lyons, Amicus Joint General Secretary, said:

"The Government has issued a series of guidelines with the express intention
that employers take specific steps to protect their employees in what is a cut
and dried health and safety issue. Amicus will be calling on the Government to
take punitive action against employers who fail in their duty of care."

Notes for Editors:

The Amicus Conference 'Terrorist Threats and the Role of Union Health and Safety
Reps' will take place at 33-37 Moreland Street, London, EC1V 8HA on 2nd May 2003
at 10.30Amicus

CONTACT:

For information contact Lee Whitehill, +44 [0]7768 6939950

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 PR Newswire Europe Limited

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 April 1, 2003

Oil Worker Tells Murder Bid Trial Of Golf Club Attack Terror

BYLINE: Claire Stewart

SECTION: News; Courts; HighCourt; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 608 words


An Oil worker told a court he had been struck over the head with a golf club as
he made his way home from the pub.  William Porter, 48, said he had been bitten
and punched in the alleged attack in George Street, Aberdeen, which left him
unconscious for 30 hours.

Mr Porter, a mechanical technician, said that in the attack he had bitten his
own tongue, which had to be stitched together at Aberdeen Royal Infirmary.

Mr Porter was giving evidence at the trial of James McAllister, 40, who denies
attempting to murder him on October 19, 2002 in George Street.

McAllister, whose address was given as HMP Aberdeen, also denies assaulting Mr
Porter at Glen's Bar in John Street on the same night.

He has entered a further not guilty plea to assaulting Robert Hunter by punching
him in the face, permanently disfiguring him, on the same night in George
Street.

Taking the stand at the High Court in Forfar, Mr Porter described how he had
gone out for a pint at his local, Glen's Bar, after returning home from working
offshore.

There were three men in the pub that night who were "quite drunk", he claimed.

Mr Porter, who is Irish, said one of the men was pestering him asking him where
he came from.

He said when he went into the toilets one of the men, who he thinks might have
been McAllister, followed him in.

He told the court: "I was in the toilet, the boy came in and said 'I am going to
kill you', and hit me in the back of the head, and my head hit the wall." Mr
Porter said the man then left the toilets and he washed his face and tried to
get himself together.

When he came out the men had gone and he left the pub to go home.

But as he walked to his flat in George Street he spotted McAllister ahead of him
who started shouting that he was going to kill him and his family.

The oil worker said his car was parked nearby and he unlocked the boot and took
a golf club out.

He told the jury: "I went up to the defendant and told him to keep away from me
and my family, but as I was doing so he kicked me. I got hit over the head with
the golf club, then I got kicked and punched, but I can't remember because I was
unconscious." He said 30 hours later he came to in ARI's intensive care unit
where he was suffering from bruising, severe cuts to his head and face and a
bite on the neck, as well as the cut to his tongue.

In cross-examination defence counsel Jock Thomson, QC, put it to Mr Porter that
McAllister had still been in the bar when he came out of the toilets after the
alleged attack. Mr Porter denied this.

He asked Mr Porter if he had waited until McAllister left the bar and then
followed him out. The alleged victim also denied this.

Mr Thomson said: "Isn't it the case, for whatever reason, you decided you were
going to have a go at this man and as soon as he left the bar that is what you
did?" Mr Porter denied this.

The advocate said the court may hear from forensic scientists that a lump of
McAllister's skin was found on the head of the golf club. Mr Porter said he did
not know how that could have happened.

Mr Thomson also asked the alleged victim if he remembered returning to Glen's
Bar with his face bleeding 10 to 15 minutes after he had left, telling the bar
staff that he had hit someone over the head with a golf club and he thought
someone was dead. Mr Porter said he did not remember doing that.

Storeman Robert Hunter, 37, also gave evidence yesterday and told the court he
had been very drunk, and his last memory was being in the Northern Bar. The next
thing he knew he was outside the hospital, he said.

The trial, before Lord Brodie, continues.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2003 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            April 2, 2003, Wednesday

WAR IN THE GULF: BLAME BAGHDAD;
 STRAW: EVIDENCE POINTS TO IRAQIS BOMBING OWN MARKET; TROOPS IN CHECKPOINT
KILLINGS FEARED TERROR ATTACK, SAYS US

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 649 words


THE Allies are increasingly convinced Iraqi forces were responsible for the
Baghdad market bomb carnage, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said yesterday.

He made the comment as American officials blamed Saddam Hussein's "tactics of
terrorism" for the latest in a string of Iraqi civilian deaths.

Yesterday, an unarmed Iraqi was shot dead by American troops at a checkpoint
near the central town of Shatra.

The killing came just hours after at least seven Iraqi women and children were
killed in a similar incident in nearby Najaf.

After last Wednesday's Baghdad blast, which killed 14 civilians, Iraqi officials
claimed it was an atrocity carried out by the coalition to break the will of
their people.

Graphic photos of the devastation caused by the blast sparked outrage.

But in a speech to the Newspaper Society's annual conference, Straw warned that
it was dangerous to make "snap judgments on the basis of television pictures".

He indicated the explosion could have been planned by Saddam to discredit the
Allies, or caused by a stray Iraqi missile.

An investigation is under way into the checkpoint killings.

A spokesman for US war commander General Tommy Franks expressed sympathy for the
families of the dead.

But US Brigadier General Vincent Brooks said coalition forces had to maintain a
state of heightened alert after a suicide car bombing at a checkpoint killed
four Americans.

He added: "We maintain the right to self-defence.

"We've increased vigilance because of the tactics of Iraqi death squads.

"While we regret the loss of civilian lives, they remain unavoidable."

Another US spokesman, Captain Frank Thorp, said: "The checkpoint was clearly
marked.

"The forces have an inherent right of self-defence. The blood of this incident
is on the hands of Saddam Hussein's regime.

"It is showing a very firm tendency to use civilians as combatants too."

The man who died at Shatra yesterday was fired on after driving his pick-up
truck at American soldiers.

A passenger in the vehicle was also badly injured, US officials said.

The soldiers involved in the fatal shootings near Najaf were from the US Army's
3rd Infantry Division.

It lost four soldiers on Saturday in the suicide bombing.

Yesterday, troops were manning the checkpoint on Highway Nine in Najaf when they
saw the blue Toyota approaching.

US officials said: "Initial reports indicate the soldiers responded in
accordance with the rules of engagement to protect themselves.

They said the troops fired warning shots in the air and then blasted the
vehicle's radiator - before finally aiming into the passenger cab when that
failed to bring it to a halt.

A spokesman added: "As a last resort, the soldiers fired into the passenger
compartment of the vehicle. Inside they found 13 women and children.

"Seven of the occupants were dead. Two were wounded. Four were unharmed."

But a Washington Post reporter at the scene said a total of 10 Iraqis were
killed, including five children. In its description of the shooting, the Post
quoted a 3rd Infantry Division captain as saying the checkpoint crew did not
fire warning shots quickly enough.

British commanders said US combat troops' inexperience in urban warfare could be
to blame for the Najaf tragedy.

A senior British military source said there were no chicanes on the road to slow
down vehicles and armed soldiers were not placed far enough in front of the
checkpoints.

He added: "It is difficult to say what British troops would have done but it all
depends on experience on the ground and we have a lot more experience than they
do.

"They are clearly very concerned about suicide bombings. They have a blanket
approach to force protection. We would never see them walking around in berets.

"We all have to be very careful we don't win the battles but lose the war."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2003 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            April 2, 2003, Wednesday

WAR IN THE GULF: BLAME BAGHDAD;
 STRAW: EVIDENCE POINTS TO IRAQIS BOMBING OWN MARKET TROOPS IN CHECKPOINT
KILLINGS FEARED TERROR ATTACK, SAYS US

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4/5

LENGTH: 651 words


THE Allies are increasingly convinced Iraqi forces were responsible for the
Baghdad market bomb carnage, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said yesterday.

He made the comment as American officials blamed Saddam Hussein's "tactics of
terrorism" for the latest in a string of Iraqi civilian deaths.

Yesterday, an unarmed Iraqi was shot dead by American troops at a checkpoint
near the central town of Shatra.

The killing came just hours after at least seven Iraqi women and children were
killed in a similar incident in nearby Najaf.

After last Wednesday's Baghdad blast, which killed 14 civilians, Iraqi officials
claimed it was an atrocity carried out by the coalition to break the will of
their people.

Graphic photos of the devastation caused by the blast sparked outrage.

But in a speech to the Newspaper Society's annual conference, Straw warned that
it was dangerous to make "snap judgments on the basis of television pictures".

He indicated the explosion could have been planned by Saddam to discredit the
Allies, or caused by a stray Iraqi missile.

An investigation is under way into the checkpoint killings.

A spokesman for US war commander General Tommy Franks expressed sympathy for the
families of the dead.

But US Brigadier General Vincent Brooks said coalition forces had to maintain a
state of heightened alert after a suicide car bombing at a checkpoint killed
four Americans.

He added: "We maintain the right to self-defence.

"We've increased vigilance because of the tactics of Iraqi death squads.

"While we regret the loss of civilian lives, they remain unavoidable."

Another US spokesman, Captain Frank Thorp, said: "The forces have an inherent
right of self-defence. The blood of this incident is on the hands of Saddam
Hussein's regime.

"It is showing a very firm tendency to use civilians as combatants too."

The man who died at Shatra was fired on after driving his pick-up truck at
American soldiers.

A passenger in the vehicle was also badly injured, US officials said.

The soldiers involved in the fatal shootings near Najaf were from the US Army's
3rd Infantry Division.

It lost four soldiers on Saturday in the suicide bombing.

Soldiers were manning the checkpoint on Highway Nine when they saw the blue
Toyota approaching.

US officials said: "Initial reports indicate the soldiers responded in
accordance with the rules of engagement to protect themselves.

They said the troops fired warning shots in the air and then shots at the
vehicle's radiator - before finally aiming into the passenger cab when that
failed to bring it to a halt.

A spokesman added: "As a last resort, the soldiers fired into the passenger
compartment of the vehicle. Inside they found 13 women and children.

"Seven of the occupants were dead. Two were wounded. Four were unharmed."

But a Washington Post reporter at the scene said a total of 10 Iraqis were
killed, including five children.

In its description of the shooting, the Post quoted a 3rd Infantry Division
captain as saying the checkpoint crew did not fire warning shots quickly enough.

It claimed the captain looked through binoculars and ordered the soldiers by
radio to fire a warning shot first, then shoot a machine- gun round into the
vehicle's radiator.

When the vehicle kept coming, the captain ordered: "Stop him!"

About a dozen shots of 25mm cannon fire were heard, the Post said.

British commanders said US combat troops' inexperience in urban warfare could be
to blame for the Najaf tragedy.

A senior British military source said there were no chicanes on the road to slow
down vehicles and armed soldiers were not placed far enough in front of the
checkpoints.

He added: "It is difficult to say what British troops would have done but it all
depends on experience on the ground and we have a lot more experience than they
do."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2003 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 2, 2003

Society: Frontline: Panic stations: The new agency coordinating responses to a
bio-terrorist attack is unsafe, critics claim

BYLINE: Patrick Butler

SECTION: Guardian Society Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 803 words


The health protection agency (HPA), the organisation that will coordinate
Britain's response to a bio-terrorist outrage or an infectious disease epidemic,
starts work this week. Its timing ought to be perfect; it arrives during a war,
when the deliberate release of anthrax or smallpox is a serious possibility. Yet
nagging doubts hang over the agency's ability to cope with a serious incident.

"On April 1, the agency will have difficulty organising its headed notepaper -
let alone dealing with a bio-terrorist attack," Brian Gee, a public health
laboratory manager in the Midlands, told the BBC Today programme last week in
the latest of a string of criticisms that have dogged the HPA since last summer.

The agency sweeps up into one organisation parts of the public health laboratory
service (PHLS), the centre for applied microbiology and research (CAMR), the
national focus for chemical incidents, the national poisons information service,
and various communicable disease control staff and regional emergency planning
advisers. The national radiol ogical protection board will not, for legislative
reasons, become part of the HPA until April 2004.

The main controversy surrounds the break up of the PHLS. Its nine specialist
laboratories, which analyse food, water and the environment, will be retained by
the HPA; but the 30 local laboratory networks - the eyes and ears of the service
in detecting an infectious disease outbreak - will be transferred to the
management of NHS hospital trusts.

"I quake at the prospect of the death of the PHLS," the distinguished
microbiologist Gerald Collee wrote to the Times in January. Hugh Pennington,
chairman of the inquiry into the E coli food poisoning outbreak in Scotland in
1996, called the break up of the PHLS "a great pity". Lord Turnberg, the PHLS
board chairman, said last year that transferring the labs by April 2003 would be
"impractical and unsafe".

The HPA's chief executive, Pat Troop, is unapologetic. The old system was
fragmented, she says; the new body will have the benefits of a coordinated
structure of local teams and regional teams, backed up by specialist units. She
argues that the lessons of foot and mouth, the legionnaire's disease outbreak in
Cumbria, the September 11 terrorist attacks, and the emergence of new infectious
diseases were precisely that Britain needed an integrated public health
protection response.

"We had all the parts, but they were not joined up," Troop says. "Quite a lot of
people in the field were saying: 'Why don't we make this more cohesive?' It was
just so obvious that it all fitted together." The consultation over the creation
of the HPA has reflected this, she adds. "We have had overwhelming support from
the public health community."

Does she accept that the HPA's take-off has been less than smooth? There has
been "quite a lot of uncertainty", she admits, particularly for PHLS staff.
"There are some people who are still unhappy," she says. "They are mainly people
in the labs going into the NHS. I can understand that; they are going out of the
HPA when everyone else is coming in."

But their fears are unfounded, she believes. It will be the same people in the
same jobs, funded to the same level. Public health laboratory work will not be
affected by hospital priorities and financial disciplines, but will continue to
be funded directly (and ringfenced ) by the HPA. The lab network will not
disappear, but will be replaced by a bigger network. Some people, she reflects,
a little defensively, "do not like change".

Troop admits her own appointment came late - she joined only in March, from the
Department of Health, where she was deputy chief medical officer. This left the
nascent HPA without leadership at a crucial time. She did not apply for the job
first time round and was headhunted after the HPA failed to find a suitable
candidate. "Until I was appointed, I could not begin to firm up the structure,"
she says.

Is Britain prepared for a bio-terrorist attack? "I think we are very well
prepared," she says. "Better prepared than most countries."

September 11 has concentrated minds, she argues. New guidance on how to respond
has been agreed; training has been stepped up; drugs and equipment have been
stockpiled. Ambulance services now carry "pods" of antibiotics and breathing
equipment. Everyone in the country is within four hours of three days'
antibiotics supply - enough, says Troop, to cope with an anthrax attack.

Other are less confident. Michael Weinbren, a PHLS consultant microbiologist in
Coventry, says: "People are demoralised; they are uncertain, and not sure what
they are doing. They may deal with something adequately; they may not." But
Troop insists: "In six months' time, they will feel a lot more positive."


LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       April 2, 2003, Wednesday Edition 1

Firms expect terror attacks

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 177 words


   One in four companies expects to experience some form of terrorist attack and
one in 10 believes it is "extremely likely" it will be the victim of terrorism
in the next two years.

The research comes from a survey of 50 risk managers at multinational companies
in a study by think-tank Rand Europe and The Risk Advisory Group [Trag].

Half believe terrorism is a bigger threat than crime or fraud and 63pc say
terror attacks are a "significant threat" to their organisations.

Wilson finds Boot fits

HOUSEBUILDER Wilson Bowden has announced an agreement to buy construction group
Henry Boot's housing business for 47.8m.

The tie-up, which includes debts of 18.7m on top of a purchase price of 29.1m,
adds 1,792 plots to Wilson Bowden's land bank.

Airline's hope

AMERICAN Airlines has taken a huge step towards preventing bankruptcy by
reaching a cost-cutting agreement with unions representing pilots, flight
attendants and mechanics.

The tentative agreements still have to be voted on by union members. Company
shares lifted by 33pc.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 3, 2003

Text alerts to counter terror attack

BYLINE: Sarah Hall

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 472 words


Text messaging will be used to alert top figures in the City to a major
terrorist attack, the government said yesterday.

A sophisticated text messaging system is being developed to ensure that business
leaders can be contacted immediately and told what to do should the capital
suffer something similar to the attacks on New York and Washington.

The strategy was revealed by Nick Raynsford, the minister responsible for the
capital's "resilience" against terrorist attacks, when he was questioned by the
Commons defence select committee on the steps the government is taking to
strengthen London's defences.

He said the idea of circulating leaflets detailing what Londoners should do in
the event of a terrorist strike had been dismissed because the range of possible
attacks - which could involve the use of chemical, biological or even nuclear
weapons - was so great any leaflet risked being over-complex, confusing or
misleading.

Instead, residents would be informed through TV, radio and the internet, with
material given out by emergency services and local authorities.

But when it came to the City - one of the most likely targets - the government
is branching into text messaging, which is already used to convey news and
sports results speedily.

One emergency news service, the city alert texting system (Cats), has been
launched to alert subscribers to possible terrorist attacks, but it is
understood the government's plan would ensure key figures automatically received
such messages.

Mr Raynsford said: "There is considerable scope through text messaging. In the
business community a very sophisticated text messaging system is being developed
to ensure that businesses can be contacted in a hurry."

Asked if this had been finalised, he said: "I don't know if we've got it right,
but we are putting a lot of thought into it."

The minister, who chairs the London resilience forum set up after the US attacks
in 2001, said information would be conveyed through various sources.

"The whole strategy is based on using a range of different media, including
broadcast ers," he said. "Some may not be available in a particular crisis.

"We want to ensure that good information is made available by a variety of
means, so that in the event of the failure of one, the system does not collapse,
and to ensure that it gives up to date and accurate information in specific
circumstances.

He dismissed the suggestion that a US-style minister for homeland defence should
be appointed to oversee planning, and said preparations for a possible strike
had been greatly improved since September 2001.

"There is still an enormous amount to do and we are not complacent," he said.
"But we believe London is in a better state than 18 months ago and will continue
to get in a better state."


LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 April 3, 2003

Lord Levy on terror alert after home attack

BYLINE: Ian Lloyd

LENGTH: 437 words


A major security review is under way in the wake of the attack on Tony Blair's
Middle East envoy and his wife when their Mill Hill mansion was burgled.

Fifty-eight-year-old Lord Levy who is also a prominent Labour Party
(http://www.labour.org.uk/) fundraiser and president of the charity Jewish Care
was said to be shocked at the ease with which the raiders gained access to his
£5million home at a time when his political role makes him a potential terrorist
target.

A spokeswoman for Number Ten said both Lord and Lady Levy were extremely shaken
by the incident in which they were reportedly also beaten with a shovel and
threatened with further violence.

Police were camped at the mansion where Tony Blair has been Lord Levy's guest
and tennis partner throughout Sunday following the burglary on Saturday night.
Cash and jewellery worth a reported £80 000 were stolen in the raid.

Lord Levy takes his security seriously and is routinely escorted by minders
through Mill Hill Broadway on his way to synagogue every Saturday.

Professor Surya Subedi a lecturer in international law at Middlesex University's
Hendon campus said those security arrangements may now have to be revised
following the burglary.

"Lord Levy could be a potential terrorist target because of his role and
responsibility " he said.

"This would suggest to me that he is not getting the security he needs given his
prominent role and the stage of the war in Iraq. If burglars could break into
his home this easily it is a worry what organised terrorists could do."

That view was backed by David Smith former Metropolitan Police
(http://www.met.police.uk/) commander for north-west London who now heads the
24-hour security company London Community Services: "Not many people even within
the Government get personal protection " he said. "But in the current climate
anybody of Lord Levy's profile would be subject to a risk assessment carried out
by Special Branch and the security services. I think it is of great concern that
a person of his responsibility and profile should have been subjected with such
apparent ease to such a violent crime."

Detectives believe the gang have burgled before and are analysing similar
offences in-and-around Mill Hill. A Scotland Yard (http://www.met.police.uk/)
spokesman said: "Three white male suspects broke into the house and handcuffed
the middle-aged husband and wife.

"No firearms or other weapons were seen.

"Though the suspects used some violence against the victims neither suffered any
serious injuries."

-From The Hendon Times

April 3 2003 09:00

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 April 3, 2003

Not ready for terror attack

BYLINE: Dominic Yeatman

LENGTH: 379 words


TWO flimsy plastic suits are all that stand between Woodford firefighters and
the worst chemicals terrorists can throw at them.

Firefighters will be in the front line when it comes to dealing with a chemical
attack on the capital but despite growing fears and the recent discovery of a
terrorist cell producing the deadly ricin poison London firefighters are
complaining that they are woefully underprepared.

Woodford Fire Brigades Union leader Ronnie Waite said: "We are supposed to be in
charge of decontaminating people if there is a chemical attack but apart from
the suits our equipment consists of two short extension ladders and two hose
reels."

The process will consist of the hose reels being hung from the ladders and
contaminated people walking under them through the water.

Mr Waite said: "£283 million has been set aside by the Home Office for the fire
service nationally to cope with an emergency but only £11 million has been
released so far."

"We carry two of the gas chemical type suits on our machine so only two people
can deal with an incident. These suits only offer protection for 20 minutes.
That includes the time you're getting into them and the time you're getting out
of them."

Mr Waite is also concerned at the lack of advice firefighters are able to offer
the public.

He said: "We had a couple of old people come in and say they were worried about
what they should do if there was a biological or chemical attack and we couldn't
really offer them any advice.

"We are supposed to come under the London Fire and Civil Emergency Planning
Authority but they won't tell us what we should tell the public. They haven't
even produced any leaflets."

A London Fire and Civil Emergency Planning Authority spokeswoman said: "The
Authority is actively working to ensure it is equipped and prepared to deal with
the aftermath of terrorism.

"As part of the Government's New Dimensions scheme introduced following
September 11 and the Greater London Authority's own drive to protect Londoners
we are due in the very near future to get at least £13 million worth of
protective and other equipment that will allow us to be more effective in any
rescue situation involving dangerous materials."

April 3 2003 14:30

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 April 3, 2003

No Payouts Over Terrorist Attacks

SECTION: News; Health; Illness/disease; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 334 words


A westcountry business leader reacted angrily last night after insurance
companies insisted there would be no payouts to property owners in the wake of a
terrorist attack.  Despite the current international crisis and Government
warnings of possible terrorism acts, insurers claim they cannot underwrite
unpredictable risks as they are "unquantifiable".

But Tim Jones, chairman of Devon and Cornwall Business Council, said the
organisation was flooded with calls from concerned trade and property owners who
were dismissive of the industry's complacency.

"It's vital that insurance companies review their policies in the light of new
world developments. The complacency of those involved in the industry has
undermined people's confidence and we are witnessing a dilution of the insurers'
credibility." Mr Jones said people were also concerned over the increased
premiums on employer liability insurance. He explained: "These premiums have
ratcheted up by more than five per cent lately and we've had a deluge of
complaints from people claiming they were unable to pay the money required.
Moreover, many insurance companies have now come up with new policies which
would not cover against floods in areas of extremely high risks. Based on
assessments from the Environment Agency, they establish whether they cover or
not against damage produced by floods.

"With a potential threat of terrorist attacks, and more money to be paid for
insurance coverage, people are likely to lose their confidence in the industry."
But a spokesman for the Association of British Insurers said the industry was
providing competent services. "We cover against theft, explosions, fire,
flooding, but there is no policy in place to refer to terrorist attacks, " she
said. "Nuclear and chemical attacks are something very new to us and it would be
impossible to assess the risks involved unless they happened. Terrorist attacks
are simply impossible to assess. We call this unquantifiable risk." Caption:

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2003 Western Morning News

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            April 5, 2003, Saturday

WAR IN THE GULF: MARTYRS SET FOR WAVE OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 227 words


IRAQI information minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahaf said yesterday that lethal
suprises are in store for the US army in Baghdad.

He hinted at a wave of suicide bombings by Saddam loyalists and warned that
troops who seized the city's airport will never come out alive.

He added: "We will commit a non-conventional act on them, not necessarily
military. We will do something that will be a great example for these
mercenaries."

The minister also said there are no plans to use chemical or biological weapons.

The US claimed retreating Iraqis poisoned the Euphrates river with cyanide and
mustard agents in the hope of killing troops. The Pentagon said Marines setting
up camp south of Baghdad found the chemicals in the water as they built a
purifying plant.

Other US troops searching an explosives factory complex near the capital for the
"smoking gun" weapons cache to justify the invasion found thousands of boxes of
white powder, as well as nerve agent antidote and chemical warfare documents.

The powder was sent for testing, along with vials of liquid and more white
powder found at a second site nearby.

Traces of ricin and botulinum toxins were found on a rubber boot and a shoe
found in Sargat, a remote mountain region of northern Iraq allegedly used as a
terrorist training camp by Islamic militants tied to al-Qaeda.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2003 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hertfordshire

                                 April 8, 2003

Terror attack safety plans in place

BYLINE: Aaron Bateman

LENGTH: 168 words

DATELINE: Hertfordshire


THE county's emergency services are well equipped to deal with a terrorist
attack it was claimed this week.

In the event of an attack HESMIC the Hertfordshire Emergency Services Major
Incidents Committee would co-ordinate the work of the police the county council
the district councils the ambulance service and fire and rescue teams.

Chairman Bill Ogley said: "We want to reassure Hertfordshire residents that all
these organisations continuously work together to ensure that the best possible
plans are in place to deal with a major incident in the county."

HESMIC says that in the event of an emergency people should stay indoors and
listen to a local radio station on a battery powered radio.

People are also advised to have plenty of bottled water ready-to-eat food
blankets and a torch. For further information visit
<http://www.homeoffice.gov.uk (http://www.homeoffice.gov.uk)> and
<http://www.ukresilience.com (http://www.ukresilience.com)>.

April 8 2003 12:01

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 April 8, 2003

Attackers in 17-hour robbery terror jailed

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 326 words


A MAN was beaten, blindfolded and tied up in a 17-hour robbery ordeal during
which he was told he was lucky not to be ending up in a shallow grave, a court
heard yesterday.




Christopher Sykes had shared a taxi with a girl he met in a nightclub and was
invited into a house by her. But once inside two men burst into the living room
and attacked him, Mark McKone, prosecuting, told Leeds Crown Court.

He struggled but after a knife was held towards his eyes he stopped and was told
not to look at his attackers.

He was subsequently stripped to his boxer shorts, tied up and blindfolded. He
thought a third man might also have been involved but after that found it
difficult to follow who was in the room.

One of his attackers told him: That's my girlfriend you tried to go with. You
have to pay for this - you have to give us some money.

They took out his bank cards and asked for his PIN number. By mistake he gave
them an old number and one of the men who went out returned soon after demanding
the right number.

Mr McKone said the ordeal continued for several more hours during which the
victim was told: If you try anything funny we will come round to your house and
slash your throat. Eventually one of the attackers, Wayne O'Rourke, drove Mr
Sykes home. It was only after he left that he felt able to reveal his terrifying
ordeal.

Police inquiries led to O'Rourke and the house in Darfield Grove, Harehills,
Leeds, used for the attack - where Mr Sykes's DNA was found along with that of
second defendant, Rohan Hughes.

O'Rourke, 28, of Darfield Grove, who admitted two offences of robbery, one of
obtaining by deception and one of theft was jailed for a total of five years to
be served after completing 159 days unexpired from a previous sentence.

Hughes, 36 of Broadlea Terrace, Bramley, Leeds, who admitted two offences of
robbery was jailed for four years to be served after completing 145 days
unexpired.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            April 9, 2003, Wednesday

DIESEL TAX DODGE LED TO TERRORISTS' DOWNFALL ATTACKED: The damaged BBC centre in
London; TERROR: The car, above and circled right, that was left in Smallbrook
Queensway in Birmingham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 250 words


AN undercover Customs and Excise operation to smash a tax swindling racket
exposed the Real IRA terrorist bomb plot.

As armed police moved in to arrest front-line members they discovered a car bomb
almost 'ready to go'.

It would have been the fourth in the series of similar bombs.

The Real IRA used a gang of criminals as cover for their mainland bombing plot,
operating an illegal diesel washing enterprise based at remote farmhouses in the
Midlands and northern England.

The fuel laundering involved removing the red dye from the cheaper taxed
agricultural diesel and selling it to dealers at normal diesel rates for profit.

A tanker of diesel was worth pounds 10,000 in the launderers' pockets. Much of
the proceeds from the dodge went to fund the Real IRA. It became strategically
useful to hide Real IRA men in their deadly bombing plot, which resulted in
serious injury and damage which would cost millions to repair.

But unknown to the the Real IRA, Customs had tracked down the diesel operation's
final operational base to farms in Yorkshire.

When anti-terrorist police moved in to search one of the farms they found a
Smith and Wesson revolver, ammunition, a hand grenade and a timer unit. The
timer matched the one used in the Birmingham blast. Officers also found the
first crucial piece of evidence - a box with a mobile telephone.

It matched the mobile used by terrorists in the Birmingham warning call.

The trio's fingerprints were also found.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 9, 2003

Real IRA cell guilty of car bombings: Customs stumbled on farm hideout as terror
gang was preparing further attack, Old Bailey told

BYLINE: Nick Hopkins, Crime correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 775 words


Three members of a Real IRA cell responsible for a devastating car bomb campaign
in London and Birmingham were convicted at the Old Bailey yesterday.

It is thought that Robert Hulme, 23, Aiden Hulme, 25 and Noel Maguire, 34, were
poised to launch another attack when their farmhouse hideout in Yorkshire was
discovered by chance during an undercover investigation by customs and excise.

Officers found a car which was being prepared to take a bomb, but have no idea
which area was to be targeted.

The three men were accused of plotting with James McCormack, 34, and John
Hannan, 19, to plant a device outside the BBC television centre in Shepherds
Bush, London, in March 2001. A second car bomb detonated in Ealing Broadway,
west London, in August and a third in Smallbrook, Queensway, Birmingham, in
November.

McCormack and Hannan pleaded guilty to conspiring to cause explosions, but the
others denied the charge.

During their 10-week trial the jury heard that the explosions caused millions of
pounds worth of damage to businesses and properties.

"It was nothing short of a miracle that pedestrians or others in clubs and pubs
nearby did not suffer fatal injuries," said Orlando Pownall QC, for the
prosecution.

The cell had been using two farmhouses in Yorkshire as bases for their
operations, and were funding their activities by "diesel washing" - removing the
red dye from cheap agricultural diesel and selling it to dealers at normal
rates.

The police did not have any direct evidence that the men planted the devices.
Instead, the investigation relied on a detailed analysis of calls from 19 mobile
phones.

On one handset, police recovered a text message that depicted two sticks of
dynamite, followed by the words "Up The Provos".

This message was received by Aiden Hulme 12 hours after the Birmingham attack.

"The inference on any view is that Aiden Hulme was closely associated with the
people responsible," Mr Pownall said.

The breakthrough which eventually trapped the Real IRA cell came on November 14
2001, when customs officers raided a farmhouse near Leeds and discovered
documents that appeared to link the criminals to terrorism.

Within 24 hours, two of the men who eventually appeared at the Old Bailey had
been arrested - Robert Hulme and Maguire.

At the farmhouse and another building half a mile away - neither can be named
for legal reasons - detectives found a silver Vauxhall Cavalier. A pistol, three
electronic detonators, a hand grenade and a timing unit that matched the one
used in the Birmingham blast were inside. The fingerprints of all five men were
discovered in one of the farm buildings.

Police also recovered a box for a mobile phone and the receipt from the shop
where it was bought. This phone was used to send the coded warning for the
Birmingham bomb.

Robert Hulme was arrested at Liverpool docks as he tried to flee the country.
Inside his Peugeot car, officers found a wig hidden in a secret compartment
above the glove box. A fibre on this wig matched material from a fleece that had
been left in the Birmingham bomb car.

Maguire was arrested the day after the customs raid at a house in Edmonton,
north London. This address had been given to police three months earlier by a
73-year-old woman who thought a man matching a Photofit of the Ealing bomb
suspect lived in that house.

Police later discovered that Maguire had bought the Vauxhall Cavalier used in
that attack, and had also paid for the red taxi that exploded outside BBC
television centre on March 4 2001. Tracking the signal of a mobile phone which
police believe belonged to Maguire, they realised it had followed the route of
the taxi before it was abandoned in Shepherds Bush.

James McCormack's role in the terrorist operation became clearer when scientists
found his hairs on the collar and cuffs of the fleece recovered from the
Birmingham blast.

McCormack, Hannan and Robert Hulme had also been caught on CCTV cameras as they
entered the UK from Ireland the day before the bombing. Driving a stolen car,
the three men went to the farmhouse hideout in Yorkshire. McCormack and Hannan
then left for Birmingham, where it is thought they bought an Audi and took it
somewhere to load and prime a bomb.

None of the defendants was a known terrorist, but they all had criminal records.

Robert and Aiden Hulme have a sister, Donna, who has two children. One of the
fathers is McCormack, the other Hannan.

Police concede that the five men were "foot soldiers", and not leaders of the
Real IRA.

They will be sentenced today.

More at guardian.co.uk/nireland


LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 9, 2003, Wednesday

REAL IRA TEENAGER IS JAILED FOR BOMBINGS;
 BBC ATTACKER YOUNGEST TERROR CONVICT

BYLINE: ADRIAN SHAW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 307 words

HIGHLIGHT: TERROR: John Hannan and blast at the BBC


THE youngest Irish terrorist arrested in England faces jail today over a Real
IRA bombing campaign.

John Hannan was just 17 when his five-man terror cell planted car bombs. Two
were in West London - one caused a massive explosion outside the BBC TV Centre.

The second devastated Ealing Broadway as pubs and clubs were closing.

Prosecutor Orlando Pownall QC said it was "nothing short of a miracle" no one
was killed - although several people were hurt.

The third in Queensway shopping centre in Birmingham could have caused many
deaths but did not go off properly. Hannan, now 19, and James McCormack, 34,
will be sentenced today after pleading guilty to conspiracy to cause explosions
in 2001.

Robert Hulme, 23, his brother Aiden, 26, and Noel Maguire, 34, will also be
sentenced after being convicted by an Old Bailey jury of plotting explosions.

Robert Hulme was also found guilty of possessing an explosive substance.

The bombers, from the Dundalk area of Co Louth, Ireland, used a fuel tax fiddle
as cover - removing the dye from low tax "red" agricultural diesel and selling
it at full price.

But undercover Customs men probing the scam tipped off anti-terrorist police,
who raided their farmhouse HQ in West Ardsley, West Yorks, and found a car bomb
almost "ready to go", a hand grenade, a revolver and live and spent bullets.

There was also a home-made timing device of the same type used in the Birmingham
bomb.

Text messages on the gang's mobile phones helped trap them.

One sent the day after the Ealing bomb depicted sticks of dynamite and the
words: "Up the Provos!"

Scotland Yard Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke saidafter the case:
"These convictions send a clear message that we will bring to justice any
individual who brings terrorism to innocent members of the public."

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 April 9, 2003

Terror attack safety plans in place

BYLINE: Aaron Bateman

LENGTH: 168 words


Hertfordshire's emergency services are well equipped to deal with a terrorist
attack it was claimed this week.

In the event of an attack HESMIC the Hertfordshire Emergency Services Major
Incidents Committee would co-ordinate the work of the police the county council
the district councils the ambulance service and fire and rescue teams.

Chairman Bill Ogley said: "We want to reassure Hertfordshire residents that all
these organisations continuously work together to ensure that the best possible
plans are in place to deal with a major incident in the county."

HESMIC says that in the event of an emergency people should stay indoors and
listen to a local radio station on a battery powered radio.

People are also advised to have plenty of bottled water ready-to-eat food
blankets and a torch. For further information visit
<http://www.homeoffice.gov.uk (http://www.homeoffice.gov.uk)> and
<http://www.ukresilience.com (http://www.ukresilience.com)>.

April 9 2003 10:31

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Broadcast

                            April 10, 2003 Thursday

22 years for terrorists in BBC car bomb attack

SECTION: ARTICLE; Terrestrial; News

LENGTH: 28  words



HIGHLIGHT: Five Irish terrorists who took part in a Real IRA car bomb campaign
in 2001 were jailed for between 16 and 22 years...


Five Irish terrorists who took part in a Real IRA car bomb campaign in 2001 were
jailed for between 16 and 22 years yesterdayDaily Telegraph, page 14

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Broadcast


                            Copyright 2003 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 10, 2003, Thursday

22 years for terrorists in BBC car bomb attack

BYLINE: By John Steele Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 327 words

FIVE Irish terrorists who took part in a Real IRA car bomb campaign on mainland
Britain in 2001 were jailed for between 16 and 22 years at the Old Bailey
yesterday.

They were sentenced after pleading guilty to, or being convicted of, a
conspiracy to cause explosions likely to endanger life or cause serious damage
to property.

Mr Justice Gibbs said the activities of the men, who played various roles in
three car bomb attacks in London and Birmingham, were "crimes, no more and no
less". The politics or beliefs which might have motivated them were irrelevant.

The first attack, involving a taxi containing home-made explosives, took place
outside the BBC Television Centre in Wood Lane, west London, in March 2001. It
was followed by another car bomb, with home-made explosives, in Ealing Broadway,
also in west London, in August and a third in Smallbrook Queensway, Birmingham,
in November.

The London bombs caused millions of pounds of damage, but "miraculously" in the
words of the Crown, inflicted no more than minor injuries. The Birmingham device
failed to detonate properly. The judge said it was "merciful" that no one had
been killed and those involved must have known death or serious damage might
have resulted, even after warnings were given.

Robert Hulme, 23, described by the judge as "one of the leading figures" in the
plot, was jailed for 20 years. His brother Aiden Hulme, 25, also received 20
years. Noel Maguire, 34, played "a major part in the bombing conspiracy", said
the judge, and got 22 years. All denied conspiring to cause explosions between
Jan 1 and Nov 15, 2001.

Two other men, James McCormack, 35, of Co Louth, and John Hannan, 19, of
Newtownbutler, Co Fermanagh, admitted the charge. McCormack, who played the most
serious part of the five, was jailed for 22 years. Hannan was sentenced to 16
years detention. He was 17 at the time and is thought to be one of the youngest
terrorists to appear in a British court.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                 April 10, 2003

Attack terror for paperboy

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 255 words


A DOZEN onlookers stood by and did nothing as a helpless paperboy was badly
beaten during a mugging on a Sheffield street.

Today Daniel Clay's mum criticised witnesses who stood and watched as the
14-year-old was subjected to a vicious attack.

He was delivering papers on his afternoon round in Norwood Road, Shirecliffe,
when he was singled out by the robber.

The thug first knocked him to the ground then gripped his neck and tried to
strangle him.

He then threatened to stab Daniel before kicking him in the groin and forcing
him to hand over his mobile telephone. The ordeal left him badly bruised and
shaken.

Daniel's mum, Tracey Brightmore, has told police around 12 people standing at a
bus stop nearby saw what happened, but did nothing to help.

Today she said: He's not been out of the house for two days, because he was so
shaken by it.

He's back on his round now, although he's looking for a different route and has
been taken there by his boss.

We're just very angry that it's happened in front of so many people and no-one
did anything to help him.

His friend was robbed of his phone just two weeks ago. It seems like the problem
is not going away from here.

Police are appealing for witnesses, in particular a man who walked past at the
time, to come forward.

The robber was described as being aged 16 or 17, of mixed race, 6ft tall, slim
build with a moustache.

He wore a black baseball cap, black tracksuit bottoms and a black Adidas top
with white lettering across the front.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             April 11, 2003, Friday

BOY, 13, ADMITS FIREWORK ATTACK;
 COURT TOLD OF FAMILY'S TERROR

BYLINE: DEAN VALLER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 233 words


A 13-YEAR-OLD boy has escaped custody after admitting lodging a lighted firework
in a house wall while a family were inside.

The youth, who cannot be named for legal reasons, pleaded guilty to arson and
racially-aggravated harassment at Coventry Crown Court.

Judge James Pyke ordered he complete a two-year supervision order, but said an
adult committing a similar offence would have faced a custodial sentence.

Sir Andrew Watson, prosecuting, said the offence took place on November 25
outside a house in Hampton Road, Coventry.

He said two adults were due to face charges in respect of the same offences.

Sir Andrew said it was clear the boy was acting under the influence of others
but had participated in abuse against the family in the house for the previous
two weeks.

He said: "This defendant inserted a lit firework into the brickwork of the
house, near the kitchen. There were yellow sparks coming from it and into the
kitchen, which terrified the children, aged 10 and six."

He said the firework was removed by the children's father.

The next day, police saw the boy outside the same house, holding a newspaper in
one hand and a lighter in the other. He was arrested.

Ian Speed, defending, said the boy understood what he had done but said he had
been under the influence of others.

He said he was a special needs child who needed closer attention.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             April 11, 2003, Friday

DAWN HANDOVER;
 SCOTS TERRORIST ACCUSED OF ARMY BOMB ATTACK IS GIVEN TO GERMAN COPS

BYLINE: Thomas Smith Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 329 words


SCOTS IRA bomber Michael Dickson was in Germany last night after being
extradited from the Czech Republic.

The former soldier will face trial on terror charges over an attack on a British
Army base in Osnabruck seven years ago.

Czech police handed Dickson over to their German counterparts at a border
crossing at dawn on Wednesday.

Greenock-born Dickson is threatening to sue the Czech authorities over his
extradition.

After seven years on the run, he was arrested for cigarette smuggling in the
Czech Republic last December.

He was immediately taken into custody in connection with a string of terrorist
offences across Europe.

Dickson, 38, was accused of planning and taking part in the bombing of British
Army bases in Osnabruck and Northern Ireland.

He has spent the past four months in Pankrac Prison in the Czech capital Prague.

On Wednesday morning, he was locked in an armoured vehicle, flanked by police
cars and dozens of armed officers.

He was taken from Pankrac and driven to the Rozvadov-Weidhaus border crossing,
where he was handed over to German police.

Dickson, a former Royal Engineer, will stand trial in connection with an IRA
mortar bomb attack on the Quebec Barracks in Osnabruck in June 1996.

German police have identified Dickson, who once served in Osnabruck, as the man
they believe was the leader of a gang of five who fired three grenades at the
base from the back of a lorry. No one was injured.

Dickson has denied any involvement with the IRA.

He says his only link to the attack was hiring two vans which he believed would
be used for cigarette smuggling.

Police have also linked Dickson to the attempted murder of an IRA informer on
Tyneside in 1999.

And he is wanted for questioning in connection with the IRA bombing of Thiepval
Barracks, Lisburn, County Down, in 1996. One soldier was killed and 34 civilians
were hurt.

In Pankrac, Dickson went on hunger strike for two days.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2003 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                 April 11, 2003

Landlady's terror at pub gun attack on

SOURCE: Yorkshire Evening Post

LENGTH: 262 words


BY ROD MCPHEE



A LANDLADY broke down in tears as she told a court of the terrifying moment her
husband was shot in a late-night pub attack.

Julie Sherlock shook uncontrollably as she gave evidence at Leeds Crown Court
during the trial of two brothers charged with carrying out the shooting at the
Manston Arms, Cross Gates, Leeds.

Mrs Sherlock said she was standing near the doorway when the men burst in on
June 23 last year.

Michael and Paul Boylan are accused of blasting four men including the pub's
landlord, Matthew Sherlock. Mrs Sherlock said: I was stood just a few feet away
from the doors. I saw three people come to the entrance, two were wearing masks
and one of them had a gun.

Mayhem

He started firing the gun and there was absolute mayhem. They just shot then ran
out.

A few people ran out after them shouting and throwing bottles.

Mrs Sherlock told the jury she saw the gunman raise his Ku Klux Klan-style mask.
She said she recognised him as Michael Boylan and his unmasked accomplice, who
was carrying a knife, as Paul Boylan. Michael Boylan, 34, of Hebden Close,
Seacroft and Paul Boylan, 44, of Foundry Mill Street, Seacroft, Leeds, deny all
charges.

They face four charges of wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm and
a single charge of violent disorder. Michael Boylan is also charged with
possession of a firearm with intent to endanger life.

Mr Sherlock was shot in the foot, doormen Gregg Allan and Nadeem Raza were also
hit, and customer John Richardson was badly hurt in the attack.

Proceeding

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 April 15, 2003

Fears over NHS ability to handle terrorist attack

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 326 words


Fresh fears that Yorkshire's hospitals are not fully prepared to deal with a
major terrorist outrage are being voiced by MPs.




They cited a National Audit Office (NAO) survey that of all the English regions
outside London, key NHS hospitals and health authorities in the Northern and
Yorkshire area were the least prepared to deal with a major emergency including
a chemical or biological attack.

And according to the NAO, only 42 per cent of the region's health authorities
and acute hospital trusts were well prepared to handle nuclear incidents -
despite the existence of targets such as the Fylingdales early warning system in
North Yorkshire.

The survey, highlighted yesterday by the Commons' public accounts committee,
comes just two months after it emerged that thousands of chemical suits issued
to hospital staff in this region and across the country were faulty.

And yesterday, Commons public accounts committee chairman Edward Leigh said
there was an urgent need for the Government to make sure that each region had
the necessary plans, training and equipment.

Mr Leigh, Tory MP for Gainsborough, noted some progress had been made generally
in recent months.

But the committee concluded that the Department of Health lacked a proper
picture of the risks involved across the country, with co-operation between fire
services and councils patchy and better communications needed.

Mr Leigh said: At a time of heightened risk of terrorist attacks, it is worrying
that parts of the NHS are not fully prepared to handle the emerging threats from
nuclear, chemical, biological and radiological incidents.

But Commons health committee chairman and Wakefield Labour MP David Hinchliffe
last night hit back by insisting that terrorism preparations would have improved
since the NAO survey was carried out in February 2002.

There's been some significant changes since then and I personally feel more
confident that our

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           April 16, 2003, Wednesday

IRAQ WAR: NHS 'NOT PREPARED FOR TERROR ATTACKS'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 123 words


Parts of the NHS are not well prepared to handle a serious incident that could
result from a terrorist attack, a committee of MPs warned yesterday.

Some elements of the NHS were not fully ready to handle the emerging threats
from nuclear, chemical, biological and radiological incidents, the Public
Accounts Committee found.

An audit, carried out before the establishment of the Health Protection Agency
this month, should provide a starting point for improvements, the Commons
committee said.

The committee's report, the 11th of this Parliamentary Session, said poor
communications were often a key weakness in dealing with major incidents. Yet
many major incident plans did not properly cover communication issues.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 16, 2003

MPs say NHS 'unprepared' for terror attack

BYLINE: David Hencke, Westminster correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 468 words


The national health service has not got a proper grip on how to handle nuclear,
chemical or biological terrorist threats, the Commons public accounts committee
warns today.

MPs claim that the Department of Health lacks a full picture of the risks
involved and the means to ensure that each NHS region has enough equipment or
trained personnel to handle a terrorist attack.

The report says poor communication is a big weakness, with some major incident
plans not covering communications in any depth, with the result that cooperation
and coordination with fire services and local authorities is patchy.

"Whilst London is now better prepared than before September 11, the national
audit office found that a third of acute trusts and the London ambulance service
were not well prepared for incidents involving radioactivity," the report says.

"Other shortcomings, including training of staff, testing of plans and the
provision of equipment, meant that a mass casualty incident or a large-scale
hazardous substances incident would challenge the NHS in London."

The MPs say that planning outside the capital is also patchy.

"The Northern and Yorkshire health authorities and acute trusts were the least
prepared for general major incidents, and only 42% were well prepared to handle
nuclear incidents, despite the existence of targets such as the Fylingdales
early warning system," the report says. "Ambulance service in Northern and
Yorkshire also had gaps in its preparedness to handle nuclear and radiological
incidents."

Edward Leigh, the Tory chairman of the committee, said: "At a time of heightened
risk of terrorist attacks, it is worrying that parts of the NHS are not fully
prepared to handle the emerging threats from nuclear, chemical, biological and
radiological incidents.

"I am pleased that there has been some progress in recent months but there is an
urgent need for the Department of Health to ensure that each region has the
necessary plans, training and equipment in place."

But the Department of Health rejected the criticisms. "A huge amount of work has
been done to improve NHS preparedness," a spokesman said.

"We have provided national guidance on dealing with mass casualty incidents and
how to deal with the deliberate release of a wide range of different chemical
and biological agents.

"There are stockpiles of emergency equipment, vaccines, antibiotics, and
antidotes, strategically placed around the country. They are accessible by the
NHS 24 hours a day."

The spokesman added: "Since the beginning of this year we have trained ambulance
service teams in decontamination, run exercises to evaluate our responses and
published specific plans to deal with the threat of smallpox."

More at SocietyGuardian.co.uk/ nhsperformance


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                 April 16, 2003

HOSPITALS and ambulance services in regions such as the north west are not fully
prepared for a terrorist attack, say MPs.

BYLINE: IAN CRAIG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 273 words



HOSPITALS and ambulance services in regions such as the north west are not fully
prepared for a terrorist attack, say MPs.

The NHS needs to act urgently to improve its readiness to deal with chemical,
biological or radiological incidents, warns the Commons Public Accounts
Committee. With the country on alert for terrorist attacks the committee
chairman, Tory MP Edward Leigh, said he was worried. He added: "I'm pleased that
there has been some progress in recent months, but there is an urgent need for
the Department of Health to ensure that each region has the necessary plans,
training and equipment."

The committee's verdict was that the Department of Health could learn from other
countries. The MPs said in a report: "Poor communications can be a major
weakness in the effective handling of major incidents at the scene.  "Yet many
major incident plans did not properly cover communications issues, communication
plans were not tested as often as they should be and co-operation with other
agencies such as the fire service and local authorities was patchy." John
Ashton, the north west's regional director of public health, says his
organisation has been preparing for such an incident for five years but agrees
with the committee's findings.  He said: "Communication is the issue in
emergency planning.

"The north west was doing this work five years ago because we had identified it
as a priority before September 11." He said the north west's policy on big
events had been tested with the IRA bombs in Manchester and Warrington, the fuel
protests of three years ago and last year's Commonwealth Games.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: HEALTH chief John Ashton: His officials have been preparing for five
years

                     Copyright 2003 Manchester Evening News

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           April 16, 2003, Wednesday

UDDER ATTACK;
 TERROR OF POP GURU LOUIS' SISTER-IN-LAW JOAN AS SHE IS TRAPPED BY A

BYLINE: PAT FLANAGAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 322 words

HIGHLIGHT: COWERING: A cow pinned sister-in-law of Louis Walsh, right, against a
stable wall


A SISTER-in-law of pop guru Louis Walsh was lucky to escape alive after being
attacked by a mad cow.

Joan Walsh was in stables of the family farm near Kiltimagh, Co Mayo, when the
animal charged at her.

The cow, which had just calved, then pinned a terrified Joan against a wall.

For 10 minutes she was trapped in the stables as the cow butted her repeatedly.

If she had not been rescued by her husband Noel, she believes she could have
been killed.

Joan said: "She just attacked me and got me up against the wall. I fell down,
which was lucky for me.

"I was trying to force the cow back with my feet. For a while I knew I was in
real danger."

Joan was only saved by her husband when their five-year-old daughter Erin
alerted him after hearing her mother's shouts.

She was taken to Castlebar General Hospital where she was treated for serious
bruising and shock.

Joan added: "I stayed as calm as I could but she kept rocking back and forth
between the calf and myself.

"I tried to hold her off with the soles of my boots while I was shouting for
help.

"Erin was outside and heard me and went for Noel. He got the cow away with a
shovel and put her outside."

Joan considers herself very fortunate to have escaped with just a few bruises.

She added: "I knew I was in real trouble. The cow was between me and the door.
If I had panicked at all, she could have killed me.

"People should never take cows for granted, especially after calving. Even the
quietest animal can turn on you."

Even though Louis and his family were born in Chapel Street, Kiltimagh, the
family always had an interest in farming and his late father Frank kept cattle
on their land beside the town.

Louis' mother Maureen said he was the only one of the family to show no interest
in farming.

She added: "Louis wouldn't know a heifer from a bullock.

"If he could get away with it, he wouldn't do a tap."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                                 April 17, 2003

City 'Could Cope' With Terror Attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 561 words


Derby hospitals are ready to cope with a major nuclear, radiological, chemical
or biological terrorist attack.  This reassurance comes after a committee of MPs
said that hospitals in the UK were not equipped to cope with such a disaster.

The Public Accounts Committee said it was worried that, in times of a heightened
risk of terrorist attacks, some parts of the NHS would not be fully prepared to
deal with such an incident.

Committee chairman Edward Leigh said: "There's an urgent need for the Department
of Health to ensure each region of England has the necessary plans, training and
equipment in place." However, as reported in later editions yesterday, Dr Nick
Howarth, clinical lead for emergency planning at Southern Derbyshire Acute
Hospitals NHS Trust, which runs Derby City General Hospital, Derbyshire Royal
Infirmary and Derbyshire Children's Hospital, said Derby was prepared.

The trust has already trained about 20 key staff in dealing with casualties from
a terrorist attack and about GBP 20,000 has been spent on bright yellow chemical
protection suits and an inflatable decontamination chamber, which could be used
in any major terrorist incident.

Dr Howarth said that if a weapon of mass destruction was used in the city, most
people would be decontaminated at the scene of the attack by emergency service
staff.

Hospitals would be used to decontaminate anyone who had not been treated at the
scene. These were likely to be people affected by fallout from the incident and
would probably be walking wounded.

The suits would protect staff while they assess and hose down the victims,
probably with soap and water, in the inflatable shelter.

"We're as prepared as we can be," said Dr Howarth. "We have plans in place.

"We have additional equipment that can be used in the event of a radiological,
chemical, or biological incident." He said staff were regularly trained to deal
with such incidents and the hospital's emergency plan, which is how they would
cope in the event of any major disaster, was tested and updated regularly.

"It's tested to the best of our ability but, until an event like this happens
for real, you can never be 100 per cent, but we have every confidence," he said.

Despite the hospital being prepared, he said that this equipment would only be
used in a "worst case scenario situation".

Annmarie Fernanda, (25) of Mill Hill Lane, who attended A and E yesterday with a
knee injury, was pleased to see the hospital was ready.

"I think it's really good that it's prepared," she said. "I don't think there's
much reason for it, but I'm glad they are.

"I don't think Derby is as much of a risk as other high-profile cities." THE
TERRORIST THREAT "WEAPONS of mass destruction" is the term used for weapons
which could kill thousands.

Such weapons include biological, chemical, nuclear and radiological devices,
which could be delivered via a person who is carrying a deadly disease such as
smallpox or through a huge bomb.

Biological weapons could include the delivery of anthrax, plague or smallpox and
chemical weapons could include mass poisoning using mustard gas, sarin and VX
gas.

However, it is the radiological weapons in the form of a "dirty bomb" which are
thought to be the likely choice for terrorists.

Terrorists could use conventional bombs and artillery to disperse harmful
radioactive material.


LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2003 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                 April 17, 2003

Crisis team launched to deal with 'terror attack';

SECTION:  Pg. 11

LENGTH: 373 words


A MAJOR new specialist emergency team was launched yesterday to deal with any
nuclear or chemical attacks in Northern Ireland.

The Emergency Medical Assistance and Rescue Teams (Emart) consist of more than
90 doctors, nurses, ambulance and fire service staff who are trained to deal
with attacks from weapons of mass destruction.

The teams are modelled on the rescue crews used at Ground Zero in the wake of
the attack on the Twin Towers in New York.

Chief Medical Officer Dr Henrietta Campbell said the teams had been established
to ensure preparations are in place to deal with any major incident including
the threat of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear attack which has
emerged post September 11.

"Recent events have caused us to ask if we are prepared for the unthinkable, "
Dr Campbell said.

"Weapons of mass destruction have the potential to cause massive casualties and
cripple emergency services and while the probability of such an incident is low,
the consequences of it happening are very severe.

"Preparing for multiple casualties within a hazardous environment requires fresh
thinking and comprehensive training."

Dr Campbell said the management of such situations required a multi-agency
approach.

"Since recruitment of Emart volunteers started in November 2002, over 90
doctors, nurses, ambulance and fire service personnel have been trained as
members of the Emart teams, " she said.

Dr Campbell said that as well as providing a regional specialist response to
chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear incidents, Emart will also
provide a facility for large-scale medical assistance at the site of a local
major incident.

The team will also be able to support existing hospital facilities and provide
Urban Search and Rescue assistance.

Dr Campbell said hospital doctors and nurses, GPs, ambulance and fire service
staff will bring their own individual area of expertise to enhance the
flexibility of the Emart response.

Joint training will further enhance the capabilities and flexibility of Emart,
she added.

Dr Campbell announced her intention to establish Emart in Northern Ireland at an
Integrated Emergency Management conference in October 2002.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LAUNCH: Ambulance crew wearing chemical protective suits attend to one
of the 'casualties' at the press launch of Northern Ireland's new Emerergency
Medical Assistance and Rescue Teams (Emart) at the Waterfront Hall in Belfast
yesterday PICTURE: Alan Lewis/Photopress Belfast

                     Copyright 2003 The Irish News Limited

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                   UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is York

                                 April 17, 2003

Moors base terror attack warning

BYLINE: Evening Press reporter

LENGTH: 380 words

DATELINE: York


THE Health Service is unprepared for a devastating terrorist attack on RAF

Fylingdales a powerful committee of MPs warned today.

A Westminster report found planning is poor across the NHS with a lack of
equipment and people trained to handle an atrocity.

But the Commons public accounts committee singles out NHS Trusts in the Northern
and Yorkshire region as being worse than elsewhere.

The select committee led by Edward Leigh said this was particularly worrying as
the region contains the Fylingdales radar base. The site is an accepted
terrorist risk and is surrounded by high-level security.

Residents and Labour backbenchers have warned this risk will increase when

the base is upgraded for "son of Star Wars".

Rogue states who want to attack the U.S. would have to first knock-out the

early warning system they argue.

But the select committee report warns: "The Northern and Yorkshire health

authorities and acute trusts were the least prepared for general major incidents
and only 42 per cent were well prepared to handle nuclear incidents despite the
existence of targets such as the Fylingdales early warning system. Ambulance
services in Northern England and Yorkshire also had gaps in its preparedness to
handle nuclear and radiological incidents."

Mr Leigh said: "At a time of heightened risk of terrorist attacks it is worrying
that parts of the NHS are not fully prepared to handle the emerging threats from
nuclear chemical biological and radiological incidents. I am pleased that there
has been some progress in recent months but there is an urgent need for the
Department of Health to ensure that each region has the necessary plans training
and equipment in place."

But the Department of Health rejected the criticisms. "A huge amount of

work has been done to improve NHS preparedness " a spokesman said.

"We have provided national guidance on dealing with mass casualty incidents

and how to deal with the deliberate release of a wide range of different

chemical and biological agents.

"There are stockpiles of emergency equipment vaccines antibiotics and antidotes
strategically placed around the country. They are accessible by the NHS 24 hours
a day."

Updated: 10:55 Wednesday April 16 2003

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             April 20, 2003, Sunday

IRELAND'S TOTALLY UNPREPARED FOR TERROR ATTACK ON UK ATOMIC STATIONS: LIVING
UNDER CLOUD A NUCLEAR

BYLINE: TOM PRENDEVILLE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 942 words

HIGHLIGHT: BADA BOOM: An attack on a UK nuclear power station could result in a
huge explosion and radioactive fallout all over Ireland; TARGET? Sellafield nuke
station


IRELAND is hopelessly undefended in the event of a huge terrorist attack.

Even if crazed fundamentalists struck targets in Britain - such as nuclear power
stations - the Emerald Isle could be in deep trouble from a massive radioactive
cloud.

We have discovered that:

There are few defences to protect Ireland after an attack on a British nuclear
power station. Government advice is to take pills

There is no way Irish forces could, if it was necessary, help shoot down a
hijacked plane

Garda helicopters - with one armed man on board - are the nation's only hope if
bin Laden's troops attacked Britain

Military radar cover is almost non-existent in the rural west

Nuclear bunkers are rotting

An Taoiseach Bertie Ahern is the only person in Ireland who can get out of town
fast!

Security sources say the worst case scenario for Ireland would be a strike at a
nuclear power station on the wast coast of Britain.

Terrorists could hijack a plane from rural west coast airports and be over the
Irish Sea in minutes.

We were told: "The coast of Britain, which is target rich in terms of nuclear
power plants is very close in terms of flying time.

"The shoot down time is so slim that it may as well not exist."

Not that they could be shot down by Irish defence forces.

The nation's Air Corps aerodromes at Baldonnel and Gormantown have no aircraft
with any on-board armaments.

The Irish Army doesn't even have a surface-to-air missile system to bring down
rogue planes.

A Department of Defence spokesman admitted: "We have no facilities at all to
scramble jets.

"None of the fleet of seven trainer jets, two fishery patrol craft or eight
helicopters have missile defences or onboard or machine guns of any kind," he
said.

To down a rogue jet hurtling across the sky, Ireland would have to rely upon an
armed officer onboard a surveillance helicopter, brandishing a service revolver
and firing away to beat the band.

Said a security source: "Bizarre as it seems, that's our only tangible defence,
save perhaps if the RAF intercept the aircraft in time or a UK-based ground
missile battery hits the target."

If a nuclear power plant was hit, the Radiological Protection Institute of
Ireland (RPII) would be the first to learn of it.

Spokesman Marie Kelly explained: "We have a duty officer on call 24 hours of the
day.

"Even if an incident occurred in the middle of the night we have a network of
remote monitoring stations (radioactivity detectors) around the country which
would alert him as to the situation.

"He in turn would notify the Department of the Environment who in turn would
activate the National Emergency Plan."

Responsibility for dealing with the catastrophe would fall to the DoE's Nuclear
Safety Division which would activate the Emergency Response Coordination
Committee.

Said Marie Kelly: "The committee would comprise of representatives from the
Department of Health, Agriculture, Defence, Radiological Protection Institute of
Ireland (RPII) and the Meteorological service which would advise on prevailing
weather conditions, wind directions and so forth. The public would then be
notified by TV and radio and advised as to what to do.

"The most significant counter measure at that stage is to take iodine tablets,
stay indoors, close all windows and switch off any ventilation systems.

"It is not a doomsday scenario situation we are looking at, there are things you
can actually do."

Sean Dunne, spokesman for the Nuclear Safety Division, said:

"In the event of any such disaster you'd be looking at a blue light response
initially, i.e. Gardai and Fire service, who are equipped with chemical suits
and respirators for dealing with chemical spills and such like.

"We'd wait till the plume passed over, assess the situation, and if evacuation
was necessary, all the services would be mobilised for a major disaster."

While Gardai are considered a major part of the National Disaster Plan, they
might be reluctant to patrol potentially radioactive ghost towns protected only
by luminous jackets.

If an attack took place on, say, a Friday night, hundreds of thousands of
punters could be stranded in ultimate pub lock-in.

Volunteer

The 6000-strong volunteer Civil Defence would also play a role.

It was set up in 1950 at the start of the Cold War to deal specifically with a
nuclear incident.

Gerry Gervin is a Principal Officer with overall responsibility for the Civil
Defence.

"We'd carry out any requests via communication with Gardai.

"Currently we have a national emergency plan and various county plans to deal
with any eventuality," he said.

In the hours and days after a disaster, RPII scientists would monitor air, food
and water.

The public would be advised about water and milk supplies.

In a doomsday scenario, the only bunker in the country - the government bunker -
is in Custom Barracks, Athlone, HQ of the Army's Western Brigade.

The bunker, formerly the Civil Defence Communications HQ hasn't been in use for
more than 20 years and is in a ruinous state.

According to the Nuclear Safety Division there are no bunkers in the country for
senior officials.

In a disaster An Taoiseach would be whisked to the helipad on the roof of
government buildings and flown to the west Coast.

The remainder of Dail Eireann would have to settle for damp tunnels beneath
Government Buildings which lead under the city to other far-flung State
buildings.

Officially they don't exist. And Dail staff threatened to sue after discovering
that the bowels of the building was full of asbestos.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 April 20, 2003

HUNT FOR ROCKET LAUNCHER STEPPED UP IN WAKE OF FOILED PLOT; UK SECURITY FEARS
TERROR ATTACK ON PASSENGER JET

BYLINE: By Andrea Perry and Jai Breitnauer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 389 words


SECURITY chiefs have stepped up their hunt for a terrorist cell in Britain
planning to shoot down a passenger plane with a missile.

With the war in Iraq over, intelligence services fear now is the time Al Qaeda
could strike using a surface-to-surface rocket launcher.

In February a bid to use the deadly Russian-made Strela-2 was foiled when a huge
security operation was thrown around the Windsor area in Berkshire.

Secret agents discovered there was an imminent plot to attack a jet from the
famous Legoland theme park and immediately launched a round-the-clock
surveillance operation lasting four weeks. Legoland is directly beneath the
flight path for nearby Heathrow Airport and was deserted at the time of the
proposed outrage, making it the ideal location to launch an attack.

It also has excellent road links which would have allowed the gang to make a
quick getaway.

A source said: "We were extremely lucky to have had this intelligence but the
rocket launcher is still out there in the hands of these terrorists and we must
find them as they could strike again anywhere and at anytime."

Anti-terror police are still desperately searching for the rocket launcher which
is believed to have been smuggled in by Al Qaeda terrorists from Pakistan posing
as Afghan asylum seekers.

The Sunday Express revealed in February how detectives were hunting the
seven-man terror cell, who have taken advantage of Britain's liberal asylum
laws.

At the time Deputy Afghan Ambassador Dr Abdul Wahab said: "We have heard that
the suspects implicated in a scare at Heathrow were Pakistani extremists."

The terrorists were only scared off when Prime Minister Tony Blair approved one
of Britain's biggestever security operations dispatching 400 soldiers to guard
Heathrow as thousands of police engaged in a nationwide hunt manhunt to find the
terrorists. A Whitehall source said: "We believe the target was probably going
to be a big passenger jet heading to Heathrow."

Just weeks before the scare, Al Qaeda terrorists launched two missiles at an
Israeli Boeing 757 in Mombassa, Kenya, but fortunately two Strela-2 missiles
narrowly missed the wing of the jet which was carrying 261 people.

Experts believe the Heathrow attack would have been targeted at an incoming jet
probably from America or Israel.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                 April 22, 2003

Family arson attack terror

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 356 words


A SHOCKED couple today told of their disbelief after an arsonist tried to blow
up their South Yorkshire home while they slept.

Gary and Tracey Collins were upstairs with nine-year-old daughter, Shorna, when
they woke up to find their home ablaze at midnight.

Smoke and flames filled the downstairs of the terrace house in Station Road,
Wombwell, blocking off the only exit at the rear.

They didn't realise the firebug had tried to blow up a large gas cylinder
outside the kitchen door.

The container was red hot and seconds from exploding.

Firefighters say if it had ignited the couple and their child may not have
escaped alive. Fire officers were today praised for saving the family and
detectives are investigating Sunday's attack.

We think we know who is behind this and the person has a sick grudge against us
said asthma sufferer Tracey, aged 31, as she stood in her smoke-damaged lounge.

I am terrified it will happen again and want to move out of here. We have two
other children and it is lucky they were away for the night.

This person obviously has no respect for human life. We had a child in the
house, for God's sake.

I was panicking and just thinking about Shorna. We were hanging out of the
upstairs window while firefighters arrived.

A neighbour was shouting up at me to be calm and to put a damp cloth under the
door to stop smoke. The 999 people were also telling us the same over the phone.

The three may not have lived if it had not been for 40-year-old Gary fighting
his way through choking thick fumes downstairs to find his mobile phone. He was
then beaten back upstairs by the smoke and flames.

The couple also praised firefighters for getting on the scene quickly and
dousing the fire, which had been started in an outside wheelie bin. The culprit
had moved a gas cylinder into the fire to try to explode it, they say.

Firefighters from Brampton and Mexborough burst through the door. They rushed
upstairs and helped them down the staircase which was badly burned.

A Brampton fire spokesman said: This could have been much worse and it looks
like a malicious attack.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 23, 2003

CITY TERROR AFTER FIFTH SEX ATTACK

LENGTH: 138 words


    WOMEN were urged not to walk home on their own after the FIFTH sex attack in
a city in less than a month.

    Cops in Waterford believe that all the assaults may have been carried out by
the same man.

    And they are appealing to taxi drivers to help them track down the
cardigan-wearing beast.

    The latest victim was a woman walking across Wyse Bridge in Poleberry during
the early hours of the morning.

    She was knocked to the ground by the fiend - described as being "well
dressed".

    He is thought to be between 20 and 30 years old, medium build and between
5ft 10in to 6ft tall.

    Garda spokesman Sgt Padraig Dunne said the sex attacks had shocked the city.

    He added: "We would urge young women going out at night to arrange for a
friend to accompany them home or get a taxi or someone to collect them."


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            April 24, 2003, Thursday

HOSPITAL FACES UP TO TERROR ATTACK;
 TEST TO SEE IF STAFF CAN COPE

BYLINE: KRYSIA DIVER WORST NIGHTMARE: Dr Sapna Verma, specialist A & E
registrar, with 'victim' Amy Moore, 13, from Edgbaston High School for Girls,
after the decontamination exercise. Picture: John Reavenall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 312 words


A CITY hospital was put to the test to see how staff could cope with a terrorist
chemical attack. The simulation project, which took place at Birmingham
Children's Hospital is a UK first and was designed to help doctors deal with the
release of substances such as mustard gas and cyanide.

In an eerily realistic scene, girls covered in fake blood sent out piercing
screams as they were decontaminated by staff in specially designed suits.

Brainchild of the operation and consultant at Heartlands Hospital, Tony
Bleetman, said: 'In this exercise, an alarm was activated following a chemical
explosion at a girls school. The children were chaperoned into a decontamination
unit where they were showered down with detergent.

'No matter how sick or lifethreatening their condition, they were not allowed to
go into A&E before being decontaminated.'

He added that the newlydesigned suits featured battery-powered fans which could
purify contaminated air for up to four hours.

Safety advisor at Birmingham Children's Hospital, Colin Turnicliffe, said: 'We
do not have a crystal ball and we don't know what is going to happen, so we have
to prepare for the worst case scenario and this could involve the release of
mustard gas or cyanide.'

Dr Andy Flood, who served in the first Gulf War, was drafted in to observe the
exercise.

He said: 'It is essential to make contingency plans and sort out cohesive teams
in the event of possible terrorist attack in Birmingham.

'In the Gulf war, as the Scuds were going over our heads, we wore similar
protection suits for between 18 and 24 hours a day in preparation for nuclear,
chemical and biological warfare.'

Following the exercise, Mr Bleetman said that there were minor problems with
procedures which needed 'tweaking' but added that he was satisfied with the
overall response from the team.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 April 29, 2003

City Not Prepared For Terror Attack

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 12 2904BRISEP2B3cityn

LENGTH: 275 words


Bristol City Council has not drawn up plans for mass evacuation of the area in
the event of a terrorist attack, it has been revealed.  Where London is
seemingly well prepared for such an event, Bristol has not yet outlined how it
plans to deal with a major catastrophe.

A survey has revealed that despite Britain being put on alert in the run-up to
the war in Iraq, the Government Office South West, along with eight of the other
English regions, had nothing in its budget to deal with a disaster until April
1.

However, the city council has hit back saying that, while it has no specific
mass evacuation plan, it is prepared in the event of a terrorist attack or
similar major disaster.

Peter Wood, council spokesman, said: "Emergency communications are currently
being enhanced and the council is also reviewing major incident planning with
emergency services, regional government and business across the city centre.

"Our city emergency plan is designed to deal with any conceivable major
incident, including mass evacuation.

"In addition, the council has plans to deal with specific responses such as
incidents at chemical sites, the setting up of a temporary mortuary and
temporary accommodation centres. " But Conservative City Councillor Peter
Abraham said he believes that more still needs to be done.

He said: "I am desperately concerned about the situation.

"A city the size of Bristol needs to make sure it has an approved evacuation
plan.

"And yet we just do not know what is going to happen.

"In the event of a terrorist attack or disaster we will not have time on our
side, so we must be prepared."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                                 April 29, 2003

Terror attack trio jailed for 4 years for raid on house

SECTION: News; Courts; CrownCourt; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 416 words


Three balaclava-clad men armed with a baseball bat, pool cue and an iron bar,
smashed their way into an Exeter house and tied up their victims in a terrifying
attack, a court heard.  Raymond Lang, 19, Steven Shaw, 20, and Sebastian Poole,
17, wore rubber gloves and took an imitation gun and rope into the house before
attacking one of the occupants.

Richard Mattholie, who was in bed, was hit twice by Poole with the iron bar,
before he was led upstairs with someone else in the house and tied up.

Lang, of Blackboy Road, Exeter; Shaw, of Myrtle Cottage, Broadclyst; and Poole,
of Railway Terrace, Broadclyst, were sentenced to four years in jail at Exeter
Crown Court yesterday.

They had pleaded guilty at an earlier hearing to aggravated burglary.

Prosecutor Chris Bennett said the trio smashed their way into the
multi-occupancy three-storey home in Polsloe Road through a window, at about
10.10am on March 21.

Lang had armed himself with a baseball bat, Shaw had a snooker cue and Poole had
an iron bar. They wore balaclavas and gloves and had rope and an imitation gun
in a bag.

A teenager asleep on the sofa was shouted at and told to go upstairs.

Mr Mattholie, who was asleep in his bed, was first beaten with the bar before he
was driven upstairs.

The two victims were tied to a bed with the cord in a third-floor room.

Police were on the scene within minutes, having been alerted by a neighbour who
heard the window being smashed.

They caught Lang and Shaw at the scene. Poole escaped, but later that day handed
himself in to Heavitree Road police station.

None of the three made any comment in police interview.

Shaw had a previous conviction for entering a home with three others and beating
up the occupant before stealing his belongings. He was in breach of his licence,
and was ordered to serve the seven months remaining of his earlier sentence.

Richard Crabb, defending Lang, said his client had never been in serious trouble
before.

Although he admitted borrowing the bat from his brother and taking it to the
scene, it was never used.

Sean Brunton, for Poole, said: "He has no explanation for what he did. He needed
money and knew a place he might get it." Shaw's counsel Gareth Evans said his
client took the blame, and claimed he was instigator.

"He deeply regrets involving other people and says it was the stupidest thing he
had ever done.".

Judge Francis Gilbert QC said the three were trying to steal anything they
could, including cannabis.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2003 Express & Echo (Exeter)

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Lancashire Evening Post

                                 April 29, 2003

Terror attack on bus

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post

LENGTH: 349 words


A teenage thug punched and robbed a driver as his gang jumped off a bus.

The group rang the bell as the bus approached a stop at the Bridge Inn, Leyland
Road, Penwortham.

But as the driver pulled up, he was pushed and punched by one of the gang who
made off with around £40 in takings.

Bus driver Steven McIlwane, 31, of Much Hoole, who is now off sick, said: I am
very shaken and a bit bruised and battered.

I was shoved out of the way and punched on the arm. It was all a bit of a melee
and everything happened so quickly I did not really know what was going on. I
was just totally stunned.

I have been doing the job for eight years and nothing like this has ever
happened before. There was a gang of youths and one of them came down the bus
and asked me for the time and he kept asking me.

I did not realise at the time but he was actually looking over the case tray to
see where the money was.

I got to the Bridge Inn and they rang the bell to get off and then I was shoved
against the window, punched and he grabbed the money and ran off.

The culprit is really unusual because they were all the same age but he was
really tall compared to the rest. I am 6ft tall and he was taller than me.

I just want these people caught because next time it could be more serious.

The youths had all got on the Blue Bus from Preston bus station to go to Camelot
Theme Park, Charnock Richard, near Chorley, on Saturday at 12.20pm.

They caught the bus back at around 4.20pm and the robber attacked the driver at
5pm. There were no other passengers on the bus at the time.

Det Con David Watkinson, of Penwortham CID, said: The driver was obviously
terrified by what went on.

I would appeal for witnesses, or anyone who knows the attackers to come forward.

The attacker was described as 6ft 1in, of Afro-Caribbean appearance, slim, 14 or
15, and wearing a Nike top. He was accompanied by four white youths who were all
smaller.

Anyone with information is asked to contact police at Penwortham on 01772 415641
or call Crimestoppers, in confidence, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 29, 2003

SEX-TERROR ATTACK GIRL GETS 7YRS

LENGTH: 137 words


    A SEX-crazed woman who put a man through a three-hour sadism ordeal was
jailed for seven years yesterday.

    Rosie O'Shea, 29, forced the 57-year-old to strip and sexually attacked him
to make it look as if he raped her.

    He was punched and his private parts were groped as he was made to watch
O'Shea and another man, Graham Grayson, 35, have sex.

    O'Shea and Grayson -also jailed for seven years -had a long-running feud
with the man, Manchester's Minshull Crown Court was told.

    They were high on booze and drugs when they got in his Salford flat and
threatened to drown him in October.

    The man suffered cuts, severe head bruises and a serious arm wound.

    O'Shea and Grayson of Lower Broughton, Salford, admitted false imprisonment
and making threats to kill. O'Shea admitted indecent assault.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Essex

                                 April 29, 2003

Southend: Sex attack terror for train girl 14

LENGTH: 258 words

DATELINE: Essex


A 14-year-old girl was seriously sexually assaulted on a train at Southend
Victoria station police have revealed.

The teenager was subjected to the terrifying ordeal after she and a friend met
two boys aged about 16 on Southend seafront.

The group then walked from the seafront along the High Street to the station.

The victim who cannot be named for legal reasons and one of the boys got into
one train carriage while the other girl also 14 and the other boy sat in a
different carriage. One of the girls was subjected to a serious sexual assault
by the boy she was with.

Det Con John Deeley of British Transport Police said: "Unfortunately there is no
CCTV at the station either but hopefully there was someone around maybe in the
carriage or elsewhere on the train who saw what happened.

"The victim's friend and the other lad were in another carriage and did not know
what was happening.

We do not believe the other boy had anything to do with the assault but we would
like him to come forward for questioning."

The incident happened at 9pm on Wednesday April 16 but transport police have
only just released the details.

A spokesman for First Great Eastern which runs Southend Victoria station said:
"We don't have CCTV at the station because it is staffed until the station
closes unlike some others."

Call British Transport Police on 01702 466730 or 0207 3915275.

Published Tuesday April 29 2003

Brought to you by the Evening Echo
(http://www.thisisessex.co.uk/essex/about_this_site/hosts-echo.html)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Ryedale

                                 April 30, 2003

Terrorist attacks blamed for locked playgrounds

BYLINE: David Jeffels (gazette@ycp.co.uk)

LENGTH: 711 words

DATELINE: Ryedale


A RYEDALE village has been forced to chain and padlock its picturesque
children's playground because the insurance premium has rocketed beyond its
reach.

The difficulties at Hovingham are believed to be similar to that of many other
playgrounds in the district where insurance companies have boosted premiums by
hundreds of pounds mainly they claim because of the effects of the September 11
tragedies in the United States.

Kate Asquith a mother and member of the committee which masterminded the
near-acre-size playground idyllically set amid a cluster of imposing oak trees
at Hovingham said the premium had soared to £1 000 from £100 when it was opened
eight years ago.

A notice has now been erected advising parents why the playground has had to be
closed until the insurance crisis can be resolved.

Specially-built timber equipment costing £7 500 has been provided for the
playground and the Worsley family's Hovingham Estate has helped by letting the
committee have the site for a peppercorn rent she said.

Funding from the Foundation for Sport and the Arts and the former Rural
Development Commission helped set up the playground which was designed and built
by John Musker of Image Builders Boroughbridge who planned it after talking to
the children and getting their ideas.

Parents who were concerned at the lack of a safe place for youngsters to play
set about raising £4 000 towards the play area back in 1994.

"It is a good village asset and has been very popular with children over the
years. But the insurance premium increase has been devastating."

However the parish council has agreed to provide £300 in a one-off payment for
this year towards the insurance said Coun Robert Wainwright who also represents
Hovingham on Ryedale District Council.

He added: "It is a splendid amenity for the children but the insurance cost has
come as a terrific blow."

Anita Oldham who regularly takes her two children five-year-old Holly and
two-year-old Sean to the playground said: "It is a wonderful area for youngsters
to play. It serves not just Hovingham but neighbouring villages as well. It is a
great blow that it has had to be closed."

A spokesman for the York and North Yorkshire Playing Fields Association said:
"We understand that a number of villages have been hard-hit by a sharp rise in
insurance premiums for their playgrounds. It is a serious situation because it
is the youngsters who are losing out. But playground associations - and parish
councils which run play areas in some cases - cannot afford to operate them
without insurance cover because of the risk of litigation should there be an
accident."

Parish councillor Alick James said the problems of massive rises in insurance
for playgrounds had also hit village halls. He said: "I'm sure that it is quite
a widespread problem in Ryedale."

He added that Hovingham had a reputation for being a self-help village with its
work on the playground renovating and widening the footpath to the doctors'
surgery to help pram-pushing parents and now a plan to repaint the wooden
railings around the village green.

"But to have to raise hundreds of pounds in additional premiums for our
playgrounds and halls is beyond the means of many communities."

John Greenway MP for Ryedale shadow minister for tourism and sport and a trustee
of the National Playing Fields Association said the crisis faced by village
playgrounds and halls needed to be addressed. He said: "It makes a mockery of
all the money that the National Lottery has put into providing new facilities
such as these when organisations and local authorities haven't got the money to
provide the running costs."

Mr Greenway added that it was vital that ways were explored by the Government to
find solutions to the insurance crisis. "Amenities such as village halls and
playgrounds are absolutely vital to rural areas such as Ryedale and they must be
helped in some way because otherwise the quality of life for the residents will
suffer if they cannot operate due to the high cost of insurance."

* A car boot sale is being held on the village green at Hovingham on Monday next
week to help raise funds for the playground.

Updated: 14:27 Wednesday April 30 2003

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NO-GO AREA: Holly 5 and Sean Oldham 2 of Flaxton discover they cannot
get access to the locked Hovingham playground which has had to be closed because
of rocketing insurance costs.;

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Banker

                                  May 1, 2003

New York City - Caught At The Crossroads - Terrorist Attacks, Corporate Scandal,
Competition From Other Cities And Market Falls, Mean New York Is Battling To
Hold Onto Its Global Financial Crown. Suzanne Miller Explains

SECTION: Americas

LENGTH: 2188 words


One recent bone-chilling night on Wall Street, a man skulked into Harry's on
Hanover heavily hooded and scared the wits out of off-hour bankers drinking at
the Wall Street bar. "We could barely see his eyes; he asked for a beer and
phone, then walked to the back of the bar and started to take off his coat.
Everyone jumped out of their seats until we realised we knew him," recalls
Laurent, the general manager of the landmark restaurant and bar, located in the
175-year-old India House between Pearl and Stone Street. "Everyone's much more
aware now."

Such are the subtle signs of how much New York has changed since September 11.
Yes, Wall Street stockbrokers still tuck into Harry's steaks for lunch, but
there are far more empty places at the white linen table cloths of the
dimly-lit, wood-panelled dining room these days.

"Moods change daily, just like the stock market," Laurent says. A few years ago
places like Harry's were teaming with bull market bankers sporting bright
suspenders, big cigars and splashy parties. Now the glitter's gone and most are
using their corporate credit cards with restraint, treating clients to $75
bottles of wine from Harry's famous wine cellar instead of the $200 norm not so
long ago.

End of an era?

Nobody doubts New York will remain an important financial centre, but will it
continue to rule as the world's financial capital? Most bankers working here
dismiss the question out of hand. "I find it hard to imagine New York not being
the financial capital - no way," is a typical Wall Street banker response. And
for good reason.

The city is home to the New York Stock Exchange, the world's biggest, as well as
the Nasdaq, the American Stock Exchange, the commodities exchange and the New
York Mercantile Exchange. It is also home to a cadre of the most successful
banks in the world - Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, Citigroup,
Lehman Brothers and others. But the city is grappling with its worst fiscal
crisis in more than 30 years along with outsized worries about more terrorist
attacks - fears that could persist indefinitely.

Other US cities offer cheaper real estate and less visible terrorist targets, a
reason many financers have moved to New Jersey's waterfront, an area that's been
dubbed "Wall Street by the Sea". Hedge funds have established a big presence in
Stamford, Connecticut - a 45-minute train ride from New York where UBS Warburg
has its US headquarters. Many dismiss the slow drain of back office workers to
regions outside New York, claiming dealmakers rule supreme in Manhattan.

Still, if the back office drain continues, it may gradually drain the city of
big bucks that have helped fuel the city's economy. The exodus also suggests
something else: banks no longer need their operations packed in one location
because technology has melted through walls and continents.

Shortly after the attack, New York had an estimated 272,000 people working for
financial services firms, with 129,000 located in lower Manhattan. Consultants
McKinsey estimated at the time that as many as 30,000 jobs could flee the city
for other states. Few firms are keeping track of these numbers and McKinsey has
not produced an updated report. But city officials have lobbied hard to keep as
many jobs as possible within its borders.

Back-up facilities

That could be tough to do if a disaster contingency plan being considered by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Federal Reserve Board and Treasury
Department prevails. That plan, which the SEC says is still being determined,
could force banks to establish back-up facilities 200 to 300 miles from their
headquarters - driving hundreds if not thousands more jobs from the city.

Talk about bad timing. New York is grappling with the worst fiscal crisis since
the 1970s when the city almost went bankrupt and the most basic of services,
such as firefighting and garbage disposal, were severely curtailed.

Mayor Michael Bloomberg has predicted cuts in services and higher taxes as he
tries to lasso a budget deficit that could reach $7bn by 2004. The deficit has
ballooned from the huge cost of the attacks, clean-up costs, a welter of job
cuts and a big hangover from the technology boom and bust. The mayor has hiked
property taxes by 18.5%, burdening already-stressed residents.

What a time to be singing the praises of New York City to Europeans - precisely
what top government officials including the mayor, deputy mayor and Andy Alper,
president of NYC Economic Development Corp did in London in March.

"We've spent the past year trying to stabilise neighbourhoods through Federal
grants. We've finished that work and are now working on attracting new
companies," says Mr Alper, who was an investment banker with Goldman Sachs for
20 years. "We want to remind European CEOs what there is to love about New York
and how it's easier to access other CEOs in Europe while here because they come
through New York so often. We're a crossroads, which creates an opportunity for
companies to market to each other."

City promotion

New York City government is out to convince Europeans that New York, home to 8
million residents in five boroughs, remains one of the safest and cheapest of
the world financial centres to do business. There are more police trained for
counter-terrorism in New York than there are FBI agents nationwide. And the city
may be expensive by local standards, but City Hall statistics suggest it remains
one of the cheapest globally.

Office space in downtown Manhattan goes for about $44 a square foot compared
with $113 in the City of London, which is the most expensive of the major cities
polled - including Hong Kong, Tokyo, Paris, Frankfurt and the US cities of
Boston, Washington DC and Chicago. But government tables omit New Jersey, a
short ferry ride across the Hudson river and at least 25% cheaper than New York
real estate.

Enforcers' field day

New York may be a crossroads, but it is also at a crossroads, with scores of key
players from its financial community under fire from regulators and politicians
who have thrown a wide net across corporate America. Wall Street is at the heart
of that clean-up. As painful as the purge is right now, it could do much to
resurrect a damaged US reputation for having the toughest international market
cops on the planet.

Mary Schapiro, NASD vice chairman and president of regulatory policy and
oversight, says she has been a regulator the past 20 years - six with the SEC -
and has never seen anything like the workload that inundated her organisation
last year and this. "Yes, you could say I've worked at least 24 hours a day the
past year. It's been a record level of activity for us in every way - enforcing,
writing and interpreting case rules. We've broken all records," she says.

For the year through January 2003, NASD chalked up 745 new arbitration case
filings, 23% higher than 2001. This year is already into record territory.

When asked about lessons learned the past year, she says: "We've come away with
the opinion that the financial industry needs to go through a sea change in how
it looks at what they're doing and calculate the risks of what they're doing for
their own reputations," she says. The NASD, which polices broker- dealers and
also owns the Nasdaq and the American Stock Exchange, is worried about other
potential problems lurking in the marketplace. "We're very focused on hedge
funds now. We're gravely concerned about the fact that here is a product that
was only available to institutions and is now a product for the masses," Ms
Schapiro says.

The SEC, meanwhile, has a tough job ahead. It has been criticised for poor
leadership and being too slow in moving against abuses in the corporate and
banking industries. Apologists say the SEC has been grossly under funded for
years, which has hurt its effectiveness.

"We've had a flat budget for the past 10 years," an SEC official says. That will
change once government approves its new fiscal budget, which could climb to as
much as $841m from the $514m that it got, thanks to supplemental appropriations,
for its 2002 fiscal budget ended September 30. With the new bucks, the SEC will
be able to hire 700 additional people - lawyers, accountants and securities
examiners. Of that number, 151 will focus on corporate finance - reviewing the
books of filings for all public companies. "The whole idea is to beef up the
enforcement review capabilities," the SEC official says.

They could certainly use the help. For fiscal 2002, the SEC filed 163 actions
related to financial reporting and issuer disclosure, 46% higher than 2001. It
took 598 enforcement actions, 24% more than 2001 and made a move to oust 126
"unfit" corporate officers from corporate boardrooms - 147% more than 2001.

Better enforcement will be key in reclaiming America's regulatory high ground,
but the crux of the issues facing New York City's fight to retain its moniker of
world financial capital will depend on how aggressively its banks and stock
exchanges can compete.

Battered bottom lines

Banks are certainly bruised. Last year domestic profits for US-based securities
firms fell to some $8bn, the lowest yearly profit since 1995, according to the
trade group Securities Industry Association, while worldwide profits for US
firms fell 64% from record earnings of $58bn in 2000.

Equity markets are going into their fourth bear year - something not seen since
the Great Depression of the 1930s. The IPO and IT backlash has been particularly
harsh for the Nasdaq, the floorless stock exchange that trades in 4100 companies
and was home to the IT boom. Its market capitalisation now hovers around $1900bn
compared with $3600bn in 2000.

New company listings have fallen through the floor - in 2000 they stood at 579
and were 121 last year. Of that figure, new foreign listings have taken a heavy
fall - with 119 in 2000 and just 14 in 2002.

"Our whole industry is in a state where it's become hyper-competitive," says
Bill Harts, executive vice president of corporate strategy at Nasdaq. He says
that securing a trade now comes down to pricing differences of just 1/10th of a
cent per share. "This gives an idea of the granularity of execution. Current
economic conditions have led our member firms to cut costs as much as possible.

"Nasdaq being the primary market, has to be sensitive to member needs so we've
lowered our prices as much as possible," Mr Harts says. The Nasdaq has had rough
competition from small electronic trading platforms known as ECNs. That has been
good for investors who now get much better pricing and execution than a few
years ago. This is suggested in average daily share volume, which has remained
roughly flat to 2000 levels when it was 1.76 billion shares.

Michael Edleson, chief economist of the Exchange, says the Nasdaq has whittled
the time it takes to execute a trade to 2.5 seconds compared with the 24.3
seconds at the NYSE. But the most important change, he says, has been in the
average effective spread for Nasdaq-listed S&P 500 companies, which he says is
now 55.9% better than NYSE-listed S&P 500 companies. That translates into1.6
cents per share for Nasdaq trades and 3.7 cents for NYSE. "This was in the
30-cent range for Nasdaq in the mid-1990s," Mr Edleson says. "It's come down
because of the ease and cheapness of electronic trading and intense
competition."

Even so, the NYSE could easily swallow the Nasdaq like a cherry stone. Its total
market capitalisation stands at around $13000bn - the key reason it remains king
of the global exchanges. True its market capitalisation has also got hammered -
a year earlier it stood close to $16000bn - but its sheer size and blue-chip
reputation have given it a protective shield, at least for now.

Nasdaq doldrums

On the other hand the Nasdaq has been dogged by a litany of criticisms. Its new
electronic trading platform SuperMontage has been slow to take off, the planned
IPO is taking a long time and; international initiatives such as the mooted
merger with the London Stock Exchange have flopped, as has its venture in Japan.
The Nasdaq has made itself a leaner competitor thanks to cutting- edge
technology. But its ambitious search for acquisitions and joint ventures reveals
a survivalist's urge to fatten up - more broadly what New York City must do as
well.

There are flickers of light. In March city officials selected the Berlin- based
architect Daniel Libeskind's design for an urban complex of jagged buildings
capped off by a 1776-foot spire. It will be built over the gaping hole where the
Twin Towers stood and once again make New York home to the tallest building in
the world. This could be an auspicious sign of prosperous times to come for the
city.

Until then, New York bankers can plot their next renaissance at favourite pubs
like Harry's. "People always come back to where they feel at home," Harry's
manager Laurent says. Those defending New York's world title can only hope the
same applies to their city.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                Copyright 2003 Financial Times Business Limited

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                  May 01, 2003

Plans for bio-terrorist attack put to the test;

BYLINE: By Roddy McGregor

SECTION:  Pg. 17

LENGTH: 316 words


NORTHERN Ireland's contingency plans in the event of a bio-terrorist attack will
be put to the test in Co Derry next week.

More than 200 multi-agency healthcare experts will gather in Magilligan to stage
the north's largest mock response exercise.

The five day trial - 'unexpected' operational scenarios - will get under way
next Wednesday.

Called 'Operation Civil Serpent' the simulation will involve the Territorial
Army, Sperrin Lakeland Trust, Royal Victoria Hospital, the Mater Hospital, the
Western Health and Social Services Board and the Northern Ireland Trauma Centre.

Nursing students from the University of Ulster (UU) will also take part - under
the guidance of senior lecturer Pat Deeny.

Mr Deeny, who worked in a Baghdad military hospital during the Iran/Iraq
conflict, administers the UU's degree course in disaster relief - the first such
degree in the world. He said preparations to cope with a bio-terrorist attack on
the north had only recently got under way.

"Bio-terror attacks have major public health implications. Preparations must
reach far beyond our acute hospitals and emergency services, " Mr Deeney said.

"A bio-warfare attack is a threat of an entirely different order of magnitude to
the incidents normally faced by our healthcare systems are as aware and as
effective as possible."

Mr Deeny also called for all healthcare professionals to ensure that their own
home communities are prepared for any attacks.

"In the USA every nurse and every doctor has been supplied with detailed
information on diagnosis and treatment of biological agents like smallpox,
anthrax and sarin, " he said.

"Our healthcare professionals need this level of preparation and information
too. Knowledge of these kinds of biological weapons will help doctors and nurse
deal with the fear and anxieties that communities may experience, " he added.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 The Irish News Limited

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                              May 2, 2003, Friday

MOMENT OF TERROR;
 CCTV CAPTURES COWARDS ATTACKING CITY CLUBBER

BYLINE: STEVE EDWARDS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 291 words


THIS is the moment 21-year-old Mark Davis was attacked by three thugs at Cardiff
Central Station.

Mark's jaw was broken and he had surgery following the unprovoked attack - which
detectives have described as "cowardly".

The incident was captured on CCTV and these stills clearly show Mark, from
Herefordshire, being grabbed by one of his assailants, who then throws a punch
while he is on the floor.

He was on his way home from a night out in Cardiff and was standing on the
station concourse at about 11.35pm when the three men attacked him.

"I was in Cardiff clubbing and fell asleep in a nightclub," he said.

"I went outside and was on the phone to my girlfriend. The next thing I remember
is sitting in a phone booth with blood pouring out of my mouth."

Mark suffered serious facial injuries and had to undergo an operation at the
University Hospital of Wales to repair his broken jaw.

"It's still not fixed," Mark added. "My back teeth still hurt if I bite on
them." Detective Inspector Malcolm McKinnon said: "This was a cowardly attack by
a group of men on a lone person. We are determined to identify and deal with
these assailants. I ask for the public's assistance to do so." The victim was
dazed after the attack, but able to give officers descriptions of the gang.

The first had short dark hair and was wearing a white jacket with a dark stripe
down the arms. The second also had short dark hair and was wearing a red padded
jacket. The last had a dark hooded top and light-coloured trousers.

If you witnessed this attack, which took place on December 6 last year, or think
you know any of the suspects, call British Transport Police on 0800 405 040 or
Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: # CAUGHT ON FILM Mark Davis, left, is attacked by two of the
assailants.

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                  May 5, 2003

Kids left in terror as buses are attacked;
 Trouble erupts following Cup finalTrouble erupts following Cup final

BYLINE: By Kim Kelly

LENGTH: 376 words


CHILDREN were left cowering in fear after stone-throwing yobs targeted buses
returning to Coleraine from the Irish Cup final match on Saturday evening, it
has been claimed.

The day of celebrations at Windsor Park for the Co Londonderry soccer fans
quickly turned to terror when buses travelling through the outskirts of Belfast
were allegedly struck by missiles.

Children as young as ten were among the thousands of supporters who travelled to
Belfast from Coleraine by bus for the historic game and were caught up in
trouble as they made their way home.

One father, who asked not to be named, said he feared for the lives of his two
children as they became embroiled in clashes.

"The traffic on the way home was awful because the M2 was closed for repairs so
we were diverted through the outskirts of Belfast.

"A group of people just started pelting the buses with stones and bricks. They
caused damage to the bus and everyone was terrified.

"There were a few children on the buses, including my own two, and they were
absolutely petrified.

"The poor kids thought we were going to be killed and it really spoiled what had
been a great day out for the family."

Several thousand Coleraine fans travelled to Windsor Park to watch the
Bannsiders' 1-0 win over Glentoran in the Nationwide Irish Cup on what was
expected to be a trouble-free family day out.

However, some spectators put the blame for violence after the match firmly at
the feet of "over-zealous" Coleraine fans.

One man who was travelling home to the north west behind several buses filled
with Coleraine supporters said he had witnessed drunken fans vandalising buses.

"I saw people on the bus to Coleraine ripping out a seat and throwing it out the
back window of the bus.

" I had to swerve to avoid it.

"Most of the fans on the buses were really drunk and had been drinking all day.
It really wasn't the kind of atmosphere you would bring children into.

"These people are not real Coleraine fans who you would find at the Showgrounds
most weekends. They were just there to cause trouble and they spoilt a great day
out", he added.

A civic reception will be held by Coleraine Borough Council to celebrate the
Bannsiders' historic win.


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                              May 5, 2003, Monday

SIX HELD AFTER TERRORIST ATTACK IN ISRAEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 235 words


SIX people were in custody last night in connection with a suicide bomb attack
in Israel.

Anti-terrorist police are questioning three men and three women - believed to be
family members or friends of one of the British Muslims accused of masterminding
the fatal blast.

Asif Mohammed Hanif and Omar Khan Sharif are said to have carried out the attack
on beachfront pub Mike's Place in Tel Aviv on Wednesday - killing three
bystanders.

The six people, understood to be Sharif's wife Tahira, his two sisters, one of
his brothers, a friend of the family and his wife's brother, are being held at a
London police station.

The arrests followed a joint British and Israeli security services operation.

Anti-terrorist officers and local police detained two men and two women in
Derbyshire and one woman in Nottinghamshire on Friday evening. A third man was
arrested in London early Saturday morning.

All six are understood to have connections with Derby, and police are believed
to have conducted searches at three addresses in the city.

They are being held under Section 41 of the Terrorism Act 2000, which relates to
those suspected of being involved in the commission, preparation or instigation
of acts of terrorism.

It is also thought that officers are investigating an extremist Islamic group
operating in Normanton, Derby.

Israeli security forces are still hunting Sharif.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                              May 6, 2003, Tuesday

WIDOW ATTACKS TERROR ACCUSED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 427 words

HIGHLIGHT: MURDER SCENE: the aftermath of the Athens murder of Brig Stephen
Saunders, inset; GRIEVING: Ulster-born Heather Saunders


THE Ulster-born widow of the last victim of Greece's deadly November 17
terrorist gang denounced the accused killers yesterday as "mad men" and appealed
for harsh sentences.

The testimony of Heather Saunders highlighted a session devoted to exploring the
June, 2000, assassination of British defence attache Brigadier Stephen Saunders.

"They are not Greeks," she told the special Athens court set up for the trial of
the 19 suspected November 17 members. "They are mad men."

She urged harsh penalties for her husband's alleged killers. Most of the
defendants could face up to life in prison if convicted under Greece's new
anti-terrorism laws.

"They should be given a hefty sentence and be denied the freedom that they
denied my husband," said mother-of-two Mrs Saunders, who wore a long black dress
and sobbed at times during the testimony.

The brigadier's murder broke Greek public apathy about November 17 following
tearful appearances by Mrs Saunders' widow.

In court, she refused to look at the suspected terrorists.

"I had said that I would like to face them and ask them why they killed him,"
she said. "But now I don't think they are even worth looking at."

Two of the suspected November 17 members are accused of taking part in the
killing of Brig Saunders. Two others - including the only woman defendant - are
accused of lesser roles.

Savvas Xiros, a 40-year-old religious icon painter, and Dimitris Koufodinas, a
44-year-old beekeeper, are accused of ambushing Saunders as he drove to work in
Athens.

A proclamation from the group claimed Brig Saunders, from Wiltshire, was gunned
down because of Britain's role in the Nato attacks on Yugoslavia in 1999.

Angeliki Sotiropoulou is accused of being an accomplice. The group's suspected
leader, French-born academic Alexandros Giotopoulos, 59, also is accused of
complicity in the Saunders case.

Brig Saunders, 52, was the last victim in November 17's 28-year campaign of
terror.

The group - professing a mix of hard-line Marxism and ultranationalism - is
blamed for more than 100 bombings, armed robberies and 23 murders since it first
struck in 1975 with the killing of the CIA station chief in Athens.

Mrs Saunders told the court: "My husband was a perfectly innocent man but he was
denied, two years from retirement, of walking his two daughters down the aisle
one day.

"I don't want these people put up against a wall and shot. I think they should
be given stiff prison sentences and denied their freedom," she said.

The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Century Newspapers Limited

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                             May 7, 2003, Wednesday

TINY TERRORS CAUTIONED FOR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 96 words


TWO children aged just ELEVEN have been cautioned in connection with an attack
on a primary school in which pounds 10,000 worth of damage was caused.

The vandals - too young to be charged with an offence - were cautioned over the
incident at Viriamu Jones School in Cardiff.

Around 100 windows were destroyed, children's work was trashed, computers
smashed and as a final insult the intruders defecated and urinated in the
classrooms. The 60 pupils at the school in Cefn Road, Mynachdy, are being taught
in one room while the clean-up operation continues.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 8, 2003

New fears over safety of 'toxic' vaccines against germ warfare terror attack

BYLINE: Jeremy Campbell;Robert Fox

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 690 words


CONCERN is growing today over the health risk posed by vaccines used to protect
soldiers and civilians from biological attack.

It follows a decision by the US government to limit the use of the smallpox
vaccination programme following a number of deaths.

The original plan was to vaccinate 500,000 health care workers as a first
defence against possible biological terrorism. Today, only 35,000 have been
given the vaccine Only a handful of British servicemen and women serving in the
Gulf this time were given the suspect cocktail of smallpox and anthrax
vaccinations, according to the Ministry of Defence. But it said it would be
monitoring the situation.

The latest alarm comes after a special US government surveillance unit
discovered a disturbing trend linking the vaccines to causing "unusual heart
inflammation."

So far 11 cases have been found among military personnel who were given the
vaccine, and three civilian deaths are under investigation.

It includes the sudden death of a leading TV newsman after taking the smallpox
and anthrax vaccines to cover the Iraq war, which is causing concern across
America.

David Bloom, one of the stars of the NBC TV news war team, died suddenly of a
blood clot only weeks after taking the vaccines. Bloom is one of thousands in
America who took the vaccine amid fears of terror attacks.

The highly respected news correspondent, who was being groomed as an anchor for
NBC news network, took the vaccines before taking up the role of reporter with
the US military during the war.

Dr Brian Strom of the University of Pennsylvania Medical School chairs the
independent advisory committee that urged President Bush to put the brakes on or
actually halt the vaccination programme.

Dr Strom said: "This is a toxic vaccine. We would only use it on people who need
it. And we need a few weeks or months to just step back and say 'Let's replan
the plans to see how many people need to get the vaccine' before we continue."

When asked if the death of David Bloom should be reported as part of the study
of bad effects of the vaccine, he replied: "Yes".

He told CBS that said some doctors have claimed for years that there is a link
between the smallpox vaccines and blood clots of the kind that killed Mr Bloom.
All adverse effects are required to be reported so researchers can check for
new, dangerous trends in the history of the vaccine.

Dr Strom warned that "new adverse reactions" are very likely to be found in the
future.

Those at greatest risk are people whose immune systems are weakened as a result
of cancer treatment or diseases such as HIV, and those who suffer from eczema.

The virus used in the vaccine can spread across the skin, infecting the arm and
then the body. Even among healthy adults, the vaccine can cause brain swelling
and infection.

James Langton in New York writes: Pentagon officials claim to have found the
"smoking gun" that could prove Saddam Hussein was developing weapons of mass
destruction.

They are testing a lorry trailer found in northern Iraq that is believed to have
been a mobile biological weapons laboratory.

It is said to match the description of mobile labs given by Secretary of State
Colin Powell in his report to the UN Security Council earlier this year as
justification for using force to overthrow the Iraqi regime.

IRAQ UPDATE

i Officials from 17 countries meet in London today to discuss the creation of a
multinational military force to restore and maintain Iraq stability.

i Bush announced easing of some sanctions against Iraq and urged UN to follow
suit.

i Iraqi boy, eight, killed by US truck in Tikrit. Boy was watching convoy when
he leaped in front of an army vehicle to pick something up.

i Doctors in Basra reported 11 cases of cholera.

i The US army revealed that subsidiary of Halliburton Co, once run by vice
president Dick Cheney, had been contracted to operate oil fields in Iraq.

i Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr Rowan Williams, said he is unwilling to lead
thanksgiving service for end of war. He is understood to want sombre memorial
service.


LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 8, 2003

NEW FEARS OVER SAFETY OF TOXIC VACCINES AGAINST GERM WARFARE TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Jeremy Campbell

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 564 words


CONCERN is growing today over the health risk posed by vaccines used to protect
soldiers and civilians from biological attack.

It follows a decision by the US government to limit the use of the smallpox
vaccination programme following a number of deaths.

The original plan was to vaccinate 500,000 health care workers as a first
defence against possible biological terrorism.

Today, only 35,000 have been given the vaccine Only a handful of British
servicemen and women serving in the Gulf this time were given the suspect
cocktail of smallpox and anthrax vaccinations, according to the Ministry of
Defence. But it said it would be monitoring the situation.

The latest alarm comes after a special US government surveillance unit
discovered a disturbing trend linking the vaccines to causing "unusual heart
inflammation."

So far 11 cases have been found among military personnel who were given the
vaccine, and three civilian deaths are under investigation.

It includes the sudden death of a leading TV newsman after taking the smallpox
and anthrax vaccines to cover the Iraq war, which is causing concern across
America.

David Bloom, one of the stars of the

NBC TV news war team, died suddenly of a blood clot only weeks after taking the
vaccines. Bloom is one of thousands in America who took the vaccine amid fears
of terror attacks.

The highly respected news correspondent, who was being groomed as an anchor for
NBC news network, took the vaccines before taking up the role of reporter with
the US military during the war.

Dr Brian Strom of the University of Pennsylvania Medical School chairs the
independent advisory committee that urged President Bush to put the brakes on or
actually halt the vaccination programme.

Dr Strom said: "This is a toxic vaccine.

We would only use it on people who need it. And we need a few weeks or months to
just step back and say 'Let's replan the plans to see how many people need to
get the vaccine' before we continue."

When asked if the death of David Bloom should be reported as part of the study
of bad effects of the vaccine, he replied: "Yes".

He told CBS that said some doctors have claimed for years that there is a link
between the smallpox vaccines and blood clots of the kind that killed Mr Bloom.
All adverse effects are required to be reported so researchers can check for
new, dangerous trends in the history of the vaccine.

Dr Strom warned that "new adverse reactions" are very likely to be found in the
future.

Those at greatest risk are people whose immune systems are weakened as a result
of cancer treatment or diseases such as HIV, and those who suffer from eczema.

The virus used in the vaccine can spread across the skin, infecting the arm and
then the body. Even among healthy adults, the vaccine can cause brain swelling
and infection.

James Langton in New York writes: Pentagon officials claim to have found the
"smoking gun" that could prove Saddam Hussein was developing weapons of mass
destruction.

They are testing a lorry trailer found in northern Iraq that is believed to have
been a mobile biological weapons laboratory.

It is said to match the description of mobile labs given by Secretary of State
Colin Powell in his report to the UN Security Council earlier this year as
justification for using force to overthrow the Iraqi regime.


LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                  May 8, 2003

Girl, 13, in terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 112 words


A YOUNG girl was attacked by two men as she walked to school in Glasgow.

The 13-year-old was pushed to the ground and had her pockets rifled as she made

her way through Balornock.

A passing motorist then intervened and the thugs ran off, leaving their victim
shaken but unhurt.

The attack occurred yesterday at around 8.15am in a lane leading from Menzies
Road to Wallacewell Road.

Police today appealed for witnesses to the incident.

The attackers are aged 20 to 29 and both 6ft tall.

One was of heavily built with short black hair. The other was slim, with a
shaved head.

Anyone with information should call Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: May 09, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                  May 9, 2003

Ulster experts braced for a bio-terror attack;
 Emergency teams on full alertEmergency teams on full alert

BYLINE: By Kim Kelly newsdesk@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 343 words


A casualty is taken from the scene during a Bioterror mass casualty simulation
exercise at Magilligan

THE London Eye has been blown up, 80 people are dead, two ships are missing in
the Irish Sea, anthrax and serin attacks have been reported across the United
Kingdom - today Northern Ireland is on full alert for a bio-terror attack.

It might sound like the plot of a Bond film but for a group of Army and health
professionals, war is just about to break out in a remote part of Co
Londonderry.

And preparation is everything for the group involved in a simulation exercise at
Magilligan Point code named Operation Civil Serpent as Northern Ireland teeters
on the break of crisis.

The 30-strong group of Territorial Army soldiers, University of Ulster nursing
students and A&E nurses from across the UK will be thrown into a terrifying
world where society has broken down following the Iraq war.

The medical team knows little about the situation, communication has broken
down, the infrastructure is overwhelmed, a terrorist splinter group is on the
loose and things are about to get much worse.

Tonight picturesque Magilligan point will erupt in a series of horrifying
simulated bio-terror attacks that will push the military and health
professionals to the limit.

A relentless bombardment of bombs, accidents, and contamination attacks leave
scores of people "injured" as the medics struggle to put their training to use
and take control.

Dressed in gas masks and protective clothing and with only basic equipment, the
medical team will attempt to decontaminate the area, save lives and restore
order in a world where society has disintegrated.

Senior nursing lecturer at the University of Ulster Pat Deeney said: "The
classroom training is behind us, now it is time to put what we know into
practice and save lives."

And A&E nurse from the Royal Victoria Hospital Geraldine Byers said: "You can
never be properly prepared for a bio-terror attack but we are trained
professionals and we know what we are doing."


LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                              May 9, 2003, Friday

CHILDREN HUNTED FOR HAMMER ATTACKS TERROR;
 SOME OF GANG WHICH PUT VICTIMS IN HOSPITAL JUST NINE

BYLINE: ALAN HARRIS CRIME SCENES: Lady Herbert Gardens (left) and nearby Cox
Street, on the edge of Hillfields, were the scene of the horrific unprovoked
attacks by a gang of youngsters in Coventry city centre last night

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 312 words


A GANG of children - some as young as nine - attacked three people with a hammer
in Coventry city centre.

The young robbers struck three times in 20 minutes last night, hitting their
terrified victims on the head when they refused to hand over cash. All three
ended up in hospital.

Police today condemned the attempted robberies as "extremely nasty and
unprovoked".

The gang, made up of about nine youths aged nine to 15, struck in Lady Herbert
Gardens and Cox Street between 10.10pm and 10.30pm.

They stopped the first victim in Lady Herbert Gardens and demanded money.

When he refused, one of the group punched him and hit him on the back of the
head with a hammer, before running off.

Minutes later, the gang then ambushed two other male teenagers in separate
attacks in Cox Street.

Again they are thought to have asked their victims for money and hit them over
the head with a hammer when they refused.

All three victims needed hospital treatment for their injuries - said to be
superficial - and have now been discharged.

A police spokeswoman said they were vicious attacks by young offenders which had
terrified and shocked the victims involved.

She said: "These were all extremely nasty and unprovoked attacks on three
innocent bystanders.

"It was very fortunate the victims' injuries were not more serious.

"We are appealing to anyone who witnessed the attacks or who has any information
about them to contact us."

Police were due to interview the victims today and were studying CCTV footage of
the area. The gang were all wearing baseball caps and hooded tops.

The offender armed with the hammer is described as black and aged about 18.

Anyone with information about the incidents is urged to contact Little Park
Street police station on 0845 113 5000, or Crimestoppers, in confidence, on 0800
555 111.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                                  May 9, 2003

Court Hears Of Dog Attack Terror

BYLINE: S. TAFF REPORTER

SECTION: News; Courts; CrownCourt; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 374 words


Exeter Crown Court was told yesterday the dog Shadow, and another German
Shepherd called Trojan, started circling Wendy Papworth and her daughter Chloe
as they walked down Mulberry Close. Prosecutor David Evans said Shadow was
snarling and baring his teeth and bit Mrs Papworth on the thigh.  Chloe tried to
run home, but the dog leapt on her back and tried to bite her. She was left with
grazes and bruising which needed medical attention. Mr Evans said Chloe was
screaming in fear and shaking in terror and since the incident has suffered
flashbacks.

The youngster is now terrified of dogs, and will not go out into the street to
play. She will only visit friends in a car.

The prosecutor said neighbours told police it was not the first time the two
dogs had been roaming around in the road.

In this incident their owner, Ann Foy, came out and managed to control Trojan -
but not Shadow. However by the time the police arrived she had called a dog
warden to have the animals taken away.

In interview she accepted that Shadow was dangerously out of control.

In mitigation, Simon Laws said the mother-of-four was devastated by what had
happened. She accepted the dogs had escaped from her garden and she was liable
for the injuries caused by Shadow. He said Trojan had since been taken in by the
RSPCA and the Crown had not proceeded with a charge in relation to him.

Mr Laws said there was a security company boss who wanted to take on Shadow and
train him as a guard dog. In relation to a ban being imposed on Foy not being
allowed the keep dogs, Mr Laws said that she had two collies and had built a 6ft
fence round her garden to make sure they did not get out into the street.

Foy, 38, of Mulberry Close, Paignton, pleaded guilty to being the owner of a dog
that caused injury and was dangerously out of control in a public place. She was
ordered to do 60 hours community punishment work.

Imposing the sentence Judge Jeremy Griggs said he did not impose a ban on her
keeping dogs on the understanding that any she kept would be small and confined
to her own garden.

He adjourned the question of whether Shadow should be put down pending a further
hearing to see if a security company boss was still prepared to take the animal.


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2003 Herald Express (Torquay)

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                  May 9, 2003

Suicide terrorist's mosque condemns 'unIslamic' attack

BYLINE: Alex Brown

LENGTH: 672 words


THE CHAIRMAN of the Hounslow mosque where suspected suicide bomber Asif Hanif
used to worship has spoken of his disbelief that the 21-year-old former business
student from Cranford Community College could have had anything to do with last
Wednesday's attack that claimed the lives of three innocents in an Israeli bar.

Chairman of the Hounslow Jamia Masjid and Islamic Centre on Wellington Road
South Mr Chacia knew Asif as a peaceful person: I was completely shocked'' he
told the Times: We knew him as a gentle person. Everyone's shocked they can't
believe it. All the people who knew him said he wasn't an aggressive person as
such.''

He could not confirm reports that Asif had been seen distributing political
material: I did not see him hand out leaflets but if anybody goes outside of the
perimeter walls there's very little we can do about it'' he added.

Iman of the Mosque Nisar Ahamad said he had been unaware of Asif's extremist
views and condemned the action: We don't support it. It's not allowed. Civilians
should not be taken like that otherwise there will be anarchy in the world. When
things like this happen the whole of the religion is misrepresented by the
media.

Asif did not belong to any such groups as far as I know. He disliked the
fundamentalist groups. He was more interested in getting an education and that
meant going abroad.''

Asif completed a Business Studies course at Cranford Community College on the
High Street Cranford had worked as a sales assistant at World News in Heathrow's
Terminal Three and also as a security guard for Hounslow Homes though few from
either past seemed to remember him.

After dropping out of a brief spell at Kingston University Asif then left his
home in Lela Avenue to study at the University of Damascus Syria which has been
seized upon by Israeli intelligence as suggesting links with outlawed terror
groups such as Hezbollah and Islamic Jihad.

In a brief statement headteacher Kevin Prunty at Cranford College paid tribute
to his ex-student: Asif did well in his studies and was a well respected and
liked pupil. This news has come as a complete shock which is extremely hard to
contemplate. We are considering how to support pupils in the school to help them
come to terms with this terrible event.''

It is believed Asif's father who is disabled after suffering a stroke and mother
travelled on a pilgrimage to Mecca two months ago before going to Pakistan. His
brother Taz told the Sun newspaper last week his brother was studying Arabic so
that he could return to England and teach children.

He wasn't that sort of person '' he added Anyone who knew him would tell you. He
was just a big teddy bear - that's what people said about him. We used to watch
the news and our parents said the suicide stuff is not good.

What do you achieve by killing yourself and killing other people?''

Police are still trying to discover when Asif and his accomplice Omar Khan
Sharif 27 from Derby decided to become suicide bombers. Asif detonated a device
outside a bar in Tel Aviv killing himself and three other people. Mr Sharif's
bomb failed to explode and he is still being hunted by Israeli security
services.

It was revealed this week both were known to MI5 and linked to al-Muhajiroun an
extremist Islamic group.

Asif's neighbour Mohammed Hashmi 53 who also worships at the Mosque expressed
disbelief at the news. I've lived here for more than 10 years. They came three
years ago. As neighbours we were not too close we just said Hello' and Salaam'.
If I'm being honest I found him nice. When I saw his picture on TV I was really
shocked. The last time I saw him was two months ago then he went to university.
He was a very good neighbour so it was very surprising. I never imagined he
could do anything like that. Our mosque is very strict. We don't allow
youngsters to distribute leaflets in the area. We have very good relations in
the community. In the Koran suicide is condemned and forbidden.''

May 9 2003 09:30

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                  May 9, 2003

Terror attack on woman driver

LENGTH: 243 words


A YOUNG rugby players' mum was left in terror when two vandals attacked her car
following an evening academy match at Leigh.

Susan Bamford had been watching her 16-years-old son Salford player Darren play
against the young Leigh side and was driving slowly from the main car park when
the duo struck.

As her car stalled they banged on the windscreen shouted and kicked in all the
doors causing over £1 000 worth of damage to the three years old silver Fiesta.
Now former Leigh girl Susan 42 is to write to the club asking them to review
their lighting and suggesting they instal cameras.

"I am not saying the thugs were anything to do with the club but if there were
lights or cameras there this may have been prevented.

"I don't know these idiots were after my phone or handbag but when I reported
the incident to Leigh's directors in the Mick Martyn suite they were very
helpful and rang the police.'

"If it hadn't been so dark I am sure these lads wouldn't have come at me. I
can't blame anyone at the game because I would like to think that people who
come support academy teams are not like that.

Employed in the complaints department at United Utilities she said: "I am a
strong person but this unnerved me. I have been told to prepare mentally and
physically for an eight to 10 hour-long operation for reconstruction surgery in
June and I can do without having to deal with such attacks under the
circumstances."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                  May 9, 2003

Al Qaida 'Planning New Terror Attack'

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 195 words


Al qaida has reorganised, recruited new members and is planning an attack
against the United States on the scale of September 11, an Arabic magazine
claims it has been told by a new spokesman for the terror group The claims were
based on e-mail interviews conducted this week by the London-based magazine Al
Majalla with al Qaida spokesman Thabet bin Qais. "The Americans only have
predictions and old intelligence left," the magazine quoted bin Qais as saying.
"It will take them a long time to understand the new form of al Qaida." The
magazine quoted bin Qais as saying al Qaida remains "way ahead of the Americans
and its allies in the intelligence war, and American security agencies still are
ignorant of the changes the leadership has made".

US officials said they were aware of the report and that bin Qais has been
authorised in the past to communicate messages on behalf of Osama bin Laden's
terrorist network. The officials cautioned, however, that e-mail interviews can
be difficult to authenticate.

Western officials remain convinced that al Qaida poses a threat despite the
arrests of key figures and the loss of its base in Afghanistan.


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2003 Western Morning News

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Lancashire Evening Post

                                  May 10, 2003

Arson attack at terror flats

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post

LENGTH: 252 words


AN 18-year-old woman had to jump from the window of her first floor flat today
after arsonists set fire to her home.

The woman, who has not been named, was trapped in the flat on Clough Acre,
Astley Village, Chorley, when teenage firebugs set fire to the wheelie bin
outside her front door.

She was rushed to hospital after suffering leg injuries in the incident at 3.30
am.

This is the fifth blaze started by firebugs on the Clough Acre estate in the
last three weeks.

It has left householders living in fear that they will be next.

Sub Officer Steve Hart, from Chorley Fire and Rescue, said this was a
potentially life-threatening fire which the woman escaped because she had a
smoke alarm fitted.

This is the third serious incident on the estate in the last couple of weeks.

The flats have external wooden staircases with wheelie bins beneath them.

We have had three incidents, with one this morning at about 3.30am, where
someone has set fire to the wheelie bins beneath the stairs.

In each case, the fire has spread to the wooden staircase and up to the door of
the first floor flats above trapping residents inside.

In a previous incident, which happened a week ago today at 2am, a young mother
was left screaming for help when her flat was filled with smoke from a similar
blaze.

During the terrified ordeal, she had to hand her baby out of a window to fire
fighters before being taken to safety herself.

Anyone with information should call Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Lincolnshire Echo

                                  May 10, 2003

9/11 terror attack on freedom has affected how much freedom you have from
control of the state

SECTION: Features; General; Letters; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 737 words


How much privacy do you have? Less than you think probably. Never total privacy,
of course. None of us lives on a desert island.  We are all affected by each
other's actions.

But the age-old dilemma - how much freedom can you have against how much control
the state has over you - has surfaced in a new version. It is a result of 9/11
when al-Qaida terrorists launched their murderous attacks on the US in 2001.

SOON after the attacks, the Americans passed a tough federal law in order to
fight against terrorism inside their own borders.

Several aspects affected you and me - such as new banking rules against money
laundering, and storing your private information when you fly.

Did you realise that Americans now demand full details about every passenger on
board every single aircraft that lands in the US? If you have visited the US
recently, its government already holds your personal data in its computers.

Because of terrorism, this may seem reasonable. The problem is that the European
Union has a law - which covers us in Britain too - that gives European citizens
much greater protection against misuse of their personal data than American laws
give to American citizens in the US.

MEPs are asking Americans to respect European laws about data-privacy for
European citizens. Earlier this week, my parliamentary committee (called
Citizen's Freedoms) in Brussels welcomed four senior American officials from its
new Department of Homeland Security who came to give evidence to us and answer
our questions.

We MEPs objected strongly that Americans demand that European airlines must hand
over all the data about our passengers and that the US keeps it "for as long as
is necessary". It appears that the US keeps data about Europeans for seven years
but deletes data about American citizens almost instantly.

How do they force European airlines to hand over our personal data? By
threatening to take away European landing rights at American airports.

However, I am not sure that Americans realise which foot the shoe is really on.
I pointed out to the officials that the EU is bigger than the US, that we have
more people with 10 more countries just joining us and we have a bigger Gross
National Product (i.e.  more money to spend on foreign travel). Their airlines
could be made to suffer by us, as much as they can hurt ours. Both sides need a
harmonious solution.

What do the Americans do with your data? At the moment when you buy your ticket
to fly to America, everything about you from that purchase is flashed to a
computer. It assesses up to 60 different factors, and does a risk-assessment
about you. It either allows your booking to stand and your journey to commence,
or within five seconds it flashes back a warning to the security people that you
should be investigated further.

This data-gathering is still being developed by the Americans. Questioning of
the American officials by MEPs elicited undertakings from them that they would
"try" to give every individual a right to check and to correct the data which is
held about them, and for equal treatment between Europeans and Americans.

Last weekend, I took part in a discussion about the deteriorating state of the
transatlantic alliance. Present were politicians and industrialists from both
sides of the Atlantic. One thing became startlingly clear. Europeans have
totally under-estimated the trauma suffered by Americans from 9/11.

A US senator, a Republican from Utah, assured me sincerely that most Americans
believe that Saddam Hussein was responsible for the attack on New York.

AND that the American attack on Iraq was done for "self-defence" which is
allowed by the United Nations' Charter.

Listening to him, it was hard not to fall off my chair with astonishment. He
clearly believed what he said.

When the late Chairman Deng of China was asked in 1995: "What was the effect of
the French Revolution in 1789?", he replied: "It is too soon to tell." He was
right, because the ideals of Liberty, Equality, Fraternity are still changing
attitudes across other countries, even in the east of our own continent.

If you are asked: "What is the effect of the attacks of September 11 on the
World Trade Centre in New York?" you may be tempted to answer similarly.

Many more consequences of 9/11 are going to unroll in the years ahead. Storing
your personal data on American computers is only one aspect.

What do you think?

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2003 Lincolnshire Echo

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              May 12, 2003, Monday

TEENAGE GIRL IN ATTACK TERROR;
 POLICE PLEA TO TRACK DOWN BEARDED SEX BEAST

BYLINE: JAMES CARTLEDGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 249 words


A SEX attacker who threatened to kill a defenceless teenage schoolgirl and then
molested her in bushes was being hunted by police today.

The bearded man grabbed the 14-year-old in Old Hednesford Road, Cannock, after
stalking her for around half-a-mile.

She was wrestled into a clump of bushes and told she would die unless she did
what he wanted.

'This was a very distressing incident which has left the victim badly
traumatised,' said Det Con Garry Helsby, of Cannock CID.

'She was not physically hurt but went through a very nasty ordeal.

'He threatened to kill her unless she did what he asked.' 'We would appeal for
help from anyone who can help us get this man off the streets,' added.

The assault was carried out at 10.15pm on Friday as the girl was walking alone
to her home in Chadsmoor, Cannock, after seeing some friends.

She became aware that she was being followed as she crossed a roundabout in
Church Street and entered Old Hednesford Road.

The attacker rushed at the teenager from behind as she was passing a bus stop
and he dragged her into the bushes nearby.

The man ran off towards Church Street after the incident.

The attacker was described as white, aged around 30, 5ft 7ins tall and of stocky
build with brown hair, a beard and a moustache.

He was wearing a dark top with a logo on it.

Anyone with information about the attack should contact Cannock CID on 01785 234
235 or anonymously through Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The NorthEast

                                  May 12, 2003

Fire crews' long wait for terror attack suits

BYLINE: Stuart Arnold (feedback@nne.co.uk)

LENGTH: 305 words

DATELINE: The North East


NORTH-EAST fire chiefs are still in the dark about the arrival of life-saving
equipment for use in a terrorist attack.

Government officials have admitted that problems delayed the roll-out of £56m
worth of equipment including decontamination units and gas tight protective
suits.

The Northern Echo understands that equipment due to arrive by late spring has
gone to big cities including London Manchester and Birmingham on a priority risk
basis.

Equipment has yet to reach the five brigades in North Yorkshire and the
North-East.

Iain Bathgate assistant chief officer in charge of the Tyne and Wear fire
service said it was still not certain when the equipment would arrive.

He said existing decontamination equipment intended to wash down people exposed
to chemical or other weapons was "not as efficient" and took longer to set up.

Tyne and Wear had just 50 extra gas tight suits to be used among firefighters
but was hoping to purchase more with its own money said Mr Bathgate.

Jim Bradley Cleveland fire service's chemical biological radiological and
nuclear implementation officer said: "I understand that they are waiting for the
vehicles to ship the decontamination units out and they are not there in
sufficient numbers at the moment."

Redcar MP Vera Baird whose constituency has among the highest concentration of
chemical industry in Europe said: "This equipment is essential and should be
made available - quickly."

Under the Government's New Dimension programme 190 decontamination units and 4
400 extra gas tight protective suits have been promised.

A spokeswoman for the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister said: "It has taken a
while to come into service but we are creating a long- term enhanced capability
here and we have to make sure of its quality and reliability."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             May 13, 2003, Tuesday

FIRST SUSPECT ON TRIAL FOR BALI TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: KATE BISHOP Bali blast suspect Amrozi is escorted by police inside the
courtroom for the start of his trial yesterday in Denpasar, on the Indonesian
resort island of Bali and, below, visitors pray at the blast site

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 632 words


The first suspect accused in connection with last year's devastating Bali
nightclub bombing appeared in court on the tropical Indonesian island yesterday.

Amrozi bin Nurhasyim, a 40-year-old Muslim mechanic, is accused of buying the
explosives and the van they were loaded into. Twenty-six British holidaymakers
were among 202 people killed in the worst terror attack since September 11,
2001.

His trial is seen as a test of Indonesia's willingness to crack down on Islamic
militants in the world's biggest Muslim nation - and it could also shed light on
the inner workings of Jemaah Islamiyah, a group that is linked to Osama bin
Laden's al Qaida and is blamed for the carnage.

Amrozi arrived at the makeshift Denpasar courthouse in a convoy of police
vehicles. He said nothing as he was rushedinside past hundreds of reporters and
armed police.

He is charged with planning and carrying out an act of terrorism that caused
'massive casualties' on October 12, 2002, prosecutor Urip Tri Gunawan said. If
convicted, he faces execution under Indonesia's new anti-terror laws.

Amrozi exhibited none of his earlier cockiness as he faced the five judges,
giving one-word answers to questions including his age and religion.

Police say they have a strong case, including a confession from Amrozi,
testimony from 102 witnesses and physical evidence, including receipts for the
explosives and the chassis of the mini-van used in the attack.

Defence lawyers argued the 33 page indictment was invalid because it fails to
show Amrozi actively took part in the attack.

They admitted their client had confessed to participating in the bombing, but
argued that his confession alone was not enough to find him guilty.

'If he was only present at planning meetings and listened, that is far from what
he is accused of in the indictment,' Wirawan Adnan said. 'The indictment does
not show whether he was a planner or just a foot soldier. We have to conclude
the indictment is not complete and is invalid.'

So far, 29 people have been arrested in connection with the attack. Amrozi is
the first to face trial.

Outside the court, a handful of Balinese showed up to catch a glimpse of the
alleged bomber. Roads in the area were blocked and police helicopters buzzed
overhead.

About 400 people - mostly journalists and diplomats from countries who lost
citizens in the bombings - were packed inside the court.

Peter Hughes, a 54-year-old Bali bomb survivor from Perth, Australia, said he
felt anger while watching Amrozi - but also relief.

'I became quite calm when I saw his eyes because I just felt he knew where he
was going to be and he realised the enormity of it all,' said Hughes, who spent
weeks in intensive care with burns on 54 per cent of his body and damage to his
air passages. 'I saw a normal person. I saw somebody who thinks his end is
coming close.'

Wayan Sumerta, a 35-year-old Balinese driver, said he was 'furious' when he saw
Amrozi.

'I had to come and see him in the flesh,' he said. 'Let's just kill him. He
killed our friends after all.'

The nationally televised trial was adjourned until Monday.

Indonesia has won praise since the blasts for working with US and Australian
investigators to hunt down suspects after ignoring initial warnings by foreign
governments that terrorists were targeting Indonesia.

Amrozi's arrest on November 5 in Tenggulun village, central Java, was the
investigation's first major break.

Soon after, Amrozi was shown on TV laughing and smiling with Indonesian police
during a bizarre public interrogation, sparking outrage in Australia, home to 88
of the victims. The indictment says he took part in the attack to punish the US
for what he believed was its oppression of Muslims worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                             May 13, 2003, Tuesday

TERROR ATTACK SHOOTINGS WARNING'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 165 words


POLICE could be forced to shoot members of the public to maintain order in the
event of a terrorist "dirty bomb" or biological attack on Britain, it was warned
t oday.

The Police Federation annual conference in Blackpool was told that so few
officers have been trained to deal with a chemical, biological, nuclear or
radiological (CBRN) strike they would have to resort to "very unsavoury but
necessary" aspects of crowd control.

Bob Elder, chairman of the constables' central committee, did not refer
specifically to officers firing upon civilians but sources within the
organisation said it was clear police would have to resort to such desperate
measures to prevent people leaving a contaminated area.

The Government had failed to explain how important it would be to keep the
public inside a cordon after such a terrorist atrocity, Mr Elder said.

"This is not about creating mass hysteria," he said. "This is about the
opposite. The public has a right to know."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                             May 13, 2003, Tuesday

AMERICANS KILLED IN AL-QAEDA' TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 207 words


TEN Americans were killed in terrorist attacks that rocked three residential
compounds in the Saudi Arabian capital overnight, the US Secretary of State said
today.

Colin Powell said there had also been "large loss of life of others" in the
Riyadh bombings. He spoke after arriving in Saudi from the Jordanian capital
Amman.

"Terrorism strikes everywhere and everyone," Powell said. "It is a threat to the
civilised world."

The secretary of state was greeted on his arrival by Prince Saud, the Saudi
foreign minister, who expressed his sorrow and vowed to co-operate with the US
in its fight against terrorism.

"These things happen everywhere," Saud said. Before leaving Jordan, Powell had
condemned the bombers as "cowardly individuals".

Powell, who has already visited Israel, the West Bank, Egypt and Jordan on a
Middle East tour, was to meet Saudi leaders to seek help in tackling the
militant groups. Officials in Canberra said a 39-year-old Australian man working
for a computer company in Riyadh was among the dead.

No-one claimed responsibility for the attacks, but an intelligence official in
Washington said information had suggested Osama bin Laden's Al-Qaeda was
planning a strike in Saudi Arabia.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            May 14, 2003, Wednesday

We'll hunt down Saudi bombers Bush promises justice for victims of al-Qa'eda
onslaught Britons warned of further terrorist attacks in the Gulf

BYLINE: By Anton La Guardia Diplomatic Editor and John Bradley in Jeddah

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 772 words

PRESIDENT George W Bush pledged last night to hunt down the organisation behind
four co-ordinated suicide bombings against western targets in the Saudi capital
Riyadh - widely believed to be al-Qa'eda.

"The ruthless murder of American citizens and other citizens reminds us that the
war on terror continues," he said.

"These despicable acts were committed by killers whose only faith is hate and
the United States will find the killers and they will learn the meaning of
American justice."

Washington sent a high-level FBI team to help the Saudi authorities. Scotland
Yard also sent a team of investigators.

The Saudis said that at least 20 people had been killed and about 200 injured in
Monday night's attacks while Vice President Dick Cheney said that 91 people had
died. The State Department said later that they expected the total to be at
least 40, including a confirmed seven Americans. Nine suicide bombers died.

Mike O'Brien, the Foreign Office minister, said that six Britons had suffered
minor injuries.

It was the bloodiest terrorist attack against western civilians since last
year's Bali bombing in which 202 people were killed.

One survivor, John Gardiner, from Kinghorn, Fife, said the explosions were
"absolutely terrifying. All the doors came in - the external doors, the internal
doors, all the windows - and the next thing I knew I was lying on my back in
shattered glass."

As Britain issued a strong warning of more attacks, the Foreign Office said the
30,000 Britons in Saudi Arabia would have to review their security arrangements
urgently.

A statement said: "There remains a high threat of further attacks against
western interests that could involve the use of chemical and biological
materials."

It advised Britons to avoid "all but essential travel to Saudi Arabia" and said
that non-essential diplomatic staff, as well as the families of British
personnel, had been authorised to leave the country.

The synchronised attacks - three against expatriates' housing compounds and one
at the offices of an American-Saudi security contractor - took place only a few
hours before the arrival of Colin Powell, the American secretary of state.

It was one of the most audacious Islamist terrorist operations since the
September 11 attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

The attackers shot their way past security guards just before midnight, blowing
themselves up with vehicles packed with explosives.

It was a clear signal that al-Qa'eda was continuing its war against the US, even
though its prime complaint - the presence of "infidel" forces in the land of the
Prophet Muhammad - had ostensibly been addressed by last month's announcement
that Washington was withdrawing most of its troops from Saudi Arabia after the
downfall of Saddam Hussein.

The London-based Arab magazine Al-Majalla reported that an al-Qa'eda commander
had issued an e-mail the day before the attacks saying that a major assault on
Saudi Arabia was about to take place.

Identifying himself as Abu Mohammed al-Ablaj, he told the magazine that his
network had stored arms and explosives and set up "martyrdom" squads to launch
"a guerrilla war" on Saudi leaders and the United States.

Mr Powell toured one bombed site, a housing compound for employees of Vinnell, a
contractor helping to train the Saudi security forces.

Standing amid the rubble and the wreckage of a lorry bomb, he said: "It
certainly has all the fingerprints of an al-Qa'eda operation. It was well
planned and very well executed and it shows the nature of the enemy we are
working against."

An American officer at the site said the lorry and a car drove to the gate of
the complex at about 11:20pm. The attackers killed the sentries with a brief
burst of gunfire, then pushed the button that opened the iron gate.

The lorry drove to the main residential area and exploded, tearing away the side
of a four-storey building. American officials said that 70 people normally lived
in the building, but about 50 were away on training when the bombers struck.
Similar tactics were used at the other targets - desirable housing compounds
with holiday village facilities such as swimming pools, gyms and bowling alleys,
as well as their own shopping facilities.

Senior Saudi officials said the attacks were probably the work of a 19-member
suspected al-Qa'eda cell that managed to flee after a gun battle with Saudi
police in Riyadh this month.

The Saudi interior ministry, which issued photographs of the wanted men, most of
them Saudis, said at the time that they were plotting to attack members of the
royal family.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 14, 2003

Britons prepare to flee amid fear of new attack;
WAR ON TERROR: SAUDI BOMBING LINKED TO 19 SUSPECTS WHO FLED POLICE RAID

BYLINE: Danielle Demetriou;Huria Choudhari;Jeremy Campbell

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 633 words


THOUSANDS of British workers are today preparing to flee Saudi Arabia amid
growing fears of further attacks from al Qaeda terrorists.

The Government issued a strong warning to the 30,000 Britons living in the
country that there was a real risk of continued strikes against westerners based
in the capital, Riyadh. The Foreign Office said: "There remains a high threat of
further large or small-scale terrorist attacks against western interests in
Saudi Arabia. They could involve the use of chemical and biological materials."

The warning followed a wave of four synchronised suicide bomb attacks on three
compounds housing westerners and the offices of a US-Saudi owned company. At
least 29 people were killed, including seven Americans and nine suspected
bombers, and a further 194 were injured, including six Britons.

The atrocities were a bloody reminder of the war being waged by al Qaeda against
the western world and were the highest-casualty strike since last year's bombing
in Bali, which killed 202. The Saudi bombs were today linked to a group of 19
terrorists who escaped arrest during a botched raid by Riyadh police less than a
week ago.

It also emerged that a London-based Arab magazine reported that an al Qaeda
commander had issued an email the day before the attacks warning that a major
assault was about to take place in Saudi.

Scotland Yard detectives have flown out to assist police investigators, while
Washington has also sent an FBI team.

One British expatriate, who would not reveal his identify for fear of reprisals,
described how he was planning to leave Saudi immediately after the bombing of
his home in the Al Hamra compound.

The telecommunications worker, who moved to the country nine months ago, said:
"You can take the occasional pot shot but when you're in your own home and they
blow the place up, I made the decision I was going home."

Describing the gun and bomb attacks, he added: "I heard a series of pops and I
just hoped it wasn't gunfire. Maybe 30 seconds later the window and door of the
apartment blew in.

"Luckily the curtains are quite thick and they saved me from the flying glass.

I locked myself in my bedroom and heard more gunfire outside. That was
definitely the most terrifying part of it."

British Telecom executive John Crossley, knocked unconscious by the force of the
bombings, said from his hospital bed: "The fact that they have attacked three
compounds in a co-ordinated way sends a message to the western community that we
are not safe here. It's like they are saying we can get you any time, anywhere."

Another injured Briton, Graham Bull, a 58-year-old teacher from Manchester, said
he was trying to decide whether to abandon his home of 12 years. "This is home
to me, where I was very happy. I hope the people who planned these acts face the
full weight of the law." Chris Rowe, father of 15-year-old Erika, recovering in
hospital after she was hit in the face by flying debris, also voiced fears about
the dangers of his family staying in Riyadh. Mr Rowe today vowed to ensure that
his daughter left Saudi as swiftly as possible.

It is believed the leader of the al Qaeda cell is Khalid bin Muhammad al-Juhani.

Known to the FBI, he left Saudi Arabia as a teenager before fighting in Bosnia
and Chechnya and training at al Qaeda camps in Afghanistan. Last week he was one
of the 19 suspected terrorists who escaped from Saudi police.

BRITISH ports and airports are to tighten security in a bid to foil terrorists
attempting to smuggle material for a radioactive bomb into the UK.

Equipment able to detect radioactive emissions will be distributed to customs
officers, it was reported today.

The portable equipment has been on trial at Dover for the past six months.


LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 14, 2003

Two Britons are missing after Saudi bomb attack;
WAR ON TERROR: RIYADH BLAST LINKED TO 19 SUSPECTS WHO FLED POLICE RAID

BYLINE: Danielle Demetriou;Huria Choudhari;Jeremy Campbell

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 624 words


FEARS are growing today for two Britons missing after the al Qaeda bomb attacks
in Saudi Arabia.

They remain unaccounted for more than 24 hours after four suicide bomb attacks
targeting westerners ripped through the capital, Riyadh.

Fifteen other Britons were injured in the bomb blasts, which claimed the lives
of at least 29 people.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "Two Britons are still unaccounted for, we have
no further details. We are in touch with their next of kin."

Thousands of British workers are preparing to flee Saudi Arabia amid fears of
further attacks. The Government issued a strong warning to the 30,000 Britons
living in the country that there was a real risk of continued strikes against
westerners based in Riyadh. The Foreign Office said: "There remains a high
threat of further large or small-scale terrorist attacks against western
interests in Saudi Arabia. They could involve the use of chemical and biological
materials."

The synchronised suicide bomb attacks wrecked three compounds housing westerners
and the offices of a US-Saudi owned company. The victims included seven
Americans and nine suspected bombers.

A further 194 were injured. The atrocities were a bloody reminder of the war
being waged by al Qaeda against the western world and were the highest-casualty
strike since last year's bombing in Bali, which killed 202.

The Saudi bombs were today linked to a group of 19 terrorists who escaped arrest
during a botched raid by Riyadh police less than a week ago.

It also emerged that a London-based Arab magazine reported that an al Qaeda
commander had issued an email the day before the attacks warning that a major
assault was about to take place in Saudi. Scotland Yard detectives have flown
out to assist police investigators, while Washington has also sent an FBI team.
One British expatriate, who would not reveal his identify for fear of reprisals,
described how he was planning to leave Saudi immediately after the bombing of
his home in the Al Hamra compound.

The telecommunications worker, who moved to the country nine months ago, said:
"You can take the occasional pot shot but when you're in your own home and they
blow the place up, I made the decision I was going home."

Describing the gun and bomb attacks, he added: "I heard a series of pops and I
just hoped it wasn't gunfire. Maybe 30 seconds later the window and door of the
apartment blew in. Luckily the curtains are quite thick and they saved me from
the flying glass. I locked myself in my bedroom and heard more gunfire outside.
That was definitely the most terrifying part of it."

British Telecom executive John Crossley, who was knocked unconscious, said from
his hospital bed: "The fact that they have attacked three compounds in a
coordinated way sends a message to the western community that we are not safe
here. It's like they are saying 'we can get you any time, anywhere'."

Chris Rowe, father of injured 15-yearold Erika, vowed to ensure his daughter
left Saudi as swiftly as possible.

It is believed the leader of the al Qaeda cell is Khalid bin Muhammad al-Juhani.

Known to the FBI, he left Saudi Arabia as a teenager before fighting in Bosnia
and Chechnya and training at al Qaeda camps in Afghanistan. Last week he was one
of the 19 suspected terrorists who escaped from Saudi police.

TEN Austrian citizens and a further 21 tourists kidnapped in Algeria by rebels
linked to al Qaeda are safe.

The Algerian authorities deployed thousands of soldiers to hunt for the
tourists, who went missing in February. It remains unclear whether there was any
military operation to free them, whether any ransoms were paid or if they were
simply allowed to go free.


LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 14, 2003

Briton among the dead in Saudi bomb attack;
WAR ON TERROR: RIYADH BLAST LINKED TO 19 SUSPECTS WHO FLED POLICE RAID

BYLINE: Danielle Demetriou;Huria Choudhari;Jeremy Campbell

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 563 words


ONE Briton was among the victims of the al Qaeda bomb attacks in Saudi Arabia,
it was announced today.

An Irish national was also killed, Saudi authorities said, as the death toll
from the four suicide bombings targeting westerners in the capital Riyadh rose
to 34. The Saudi interior ministry gave no further details.

Fears, meanwhile, are growing for two other Britons missing more than 24 hours
after the blasts. Fifteen other Britons were among more than 200 people injured.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "Two Britons are still unaccounted for. We have
no further details. We are in touch with their next of kin."

The Government issued a strong warning to the 30,000 British citizens living in
the country of a real risk of continued strikes. The Foreign Office said: "There
remains a high threat of further large or small-scale terrorist attacks against
western interests in Saudi Arabia. They could involve the use of chemical and
biological materials."

The synchronised suicide bomb attacks wrecked three compounds housing westerners
and the offices of a US-Saudi owned company. The victims also included seven
Americans and nine suspected bombers.

The atrocities were a bloody reminder of the war being waged by al Qaeda against
the western world and were the highest-casualty strike since last year's Bali
bombing, which killed 202.

The Saudi bombs were today linked to a group of 19 terrorists who escaped arrest
during a botched raid by Riyadh police less than a week ago.

It also emerged that a London-based Arab magazine reported that an al Qaeda
commander had issued an email the day before the attacks warning that a major
assault was about to take place in Saudi Arabia. Scotland Yard detectives have
flown out to assist police investigators, while Washington has also sent an FBI
team.

One British expatriate, who would not reveal his identify for fear of reprisals,
described how he was planningto leave Saudi Arabia immediatelyafter the bombing
of his home in the Al Hamra compound.

The telecommunications worker, who moved to the country nine months ago, said:
"You can take the occasional pot shot, but when you're in your own home and they
blow the place up, I made the decision I was going home."

Describing the gun and bomb attacks, he added: "I heard a series of pops and I
just hoped it wasn't gunfire. Maybe 30 seconds later the window and door of the
apartment blew in. Luckily the curtains are quite thick and they saved me from
the flying glass. I locked myself in my bedroom and heard more gunfire outside.

"That was definitely the most terrifying part of it."

British Telecom executive John Crossley, who was knocked unconscious by the
force of the bombings, also said it would be impossible for him ever to feel
safe again in his home.

Mr Crossley said from his hospital bed: "The fact that they have attacked three
compounds in a coordinated way sends a message to the western community that we
are not safe here. It's like they are saying 'we can get you any time,
anywhere'."

It is believed the leader of the al Qaeda cell is Khalid bin Muhammad al-Juhani.
Known to the FBI, he left Saudi Arabia as a teenager before fighting in Bosnia
and Chechnya and training at al Qaeda camps in Afghanistan. Last week he was one
of the 19 suspected terrorists who escaped from Saudi police.


LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 14, 2003

WAR ON TERROR AS OUR PEOPLE ARE CAUGHT IN SAUDI ATTACKS, THE GOVERNMENT STILL
HAS TO APPOINT A MINISTER TO PROTECT US AT HOME; NEW TERROR THREAT TO BRITONS

BYLINE: By John Chapman in London and Mike Theodoulou in Nicosia

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2 3

LENGTH: 713 words


BRITISH survivors of the suicide terror attacks which killed 91 people were last
night trying to flee Saudi Arabia amid fears of more atrocities.

Among the injured being treated in a Riyadh hospital was 15-year-old schoolgirl
Erika from Warrington, Cheshire.

She was grimacing with pain after suffering facial injuries in the blast -
already being linked to Osama Bin Laden's Al Qaeda network - and indicated to
doctors that she could not speak.

Her father Chris, 46, a physical education teacher at Riyadh's British School,
said tearfully: "I'm sending my daughter home. It's time to say goodbye."

Three residential compounds housing Westerners were attacked in the atrocity.

The suicide car bombers shot their way into the luxury expat compounds, making
it the most devastating terror attacks on Westerners since the September 11
hijackings.

At least 10 of the dead were Americans.

The Saudis said nine unidentifiable bodies were believed to be those of the
attackers.

British, German, French, Australian and other Arab citizens were among the 200
injured. The Foreign Office said five Britons were wounded. As the FO advised
British nationals against travel to Saudi Arabia, another survivor, Graham Bull,
from Manchester, said: "I hope those people who were responsible for these acts
face the full weight of the law and, if they are men of religion, that when they
depart this world, that they are punished in the next world, too."

Mr Bull, 58, a teacher at the British School for 12 years, had stitches on his
hands for superficial injuries.

He added: "You don't experience this sort of thing every day. I've had a brush
with death and I don't want to experience it ever again."

Scot John Gardner, whose apartment was just 250 yards away from where one of the
cars blew up, was about to go to bed when a massive explosion rocked the
building, throwing him to the ground, blasting all the doors to smithereens and
destroying the furniture. He was saved from injury by heavy curtains which
shielded him from flying glass.

Mr Gardener, a contracts manager, from Kinghorn, Fife, said: "If I had gone to
the window to investigate I would have been shredded by the glass.

"I went to get two of my colleagues. We went back into my apartment and the only
place where there was a door left was my spare toilet.

"We locked ourselves in because there was a lot of gunfire still going off at
that time, and we thought the compound perhaps was being invaded by gunmen.

"If there were any residents in the nearest five or six houses to the blast
itself - and the bomb blast was immediately outside three or four residences - I
don't believe people could have survived.

There is nothing left - only the concrete superstructure."

Mr Gardner, who is married with a grown-up family, said he is now considering
returning home. "I can get a job back in Scotland and let's face it you've got
be alive to pick up a salary."

An Arab magazine last night said it had received two e-mails from an Al Qaeda
commander, saying the group had stockpiled weapons and explosives in the Gulf
area for an attack against Westerners.

The blasts came as US secretary of state Colin Powell arrived in Saudi Arabia in
a bid to rally support for peace efforts - just weeks after the end of the Iraq
war.

President George Bush vowed to find those responsible. He said the blasts were
the work of "killers whose only faith is hate" and vowed that "they will learn
the meaning of American justice".

Prince Saud, the Saudi foreign minister, expressed his sorrow and vowed to
cooperate with the US in its fight against terrorism. "These things happen
everywhere, " the Prince said.

Worst hit was the Al Hamra Village Oasis Compound, where 10 people were killed
in the first explosion. The complex is home to the British School.

It emerged yesterday that the Foreign Office had failed to follow America and
Australia's example in warning citizens against non-essential travel to Saudi
Arabia earlier this month.

But the FO warned on May 2 that an attack might be in the "final phases of
planning". Last night the official advice was amended to bring Britain into
line. A spokeswoman said: "We gave our advice after assessing the situation."

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 14, 2003

Saudi bombings: Terror list Previous attacks

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 189 words


Al-Qaida attacks since September 11 2001:

April 11 2002: carried out a firebombing of a synagogue in Tunisia that killed
19 and injured 22.

May 11: Linked to a suicide bombing that killed 14 people, most of them French
naval engineers, outside a Karachi hotel

June 14: Reported to have funded a suicide car bomb attack on the United States
consulate in Karachi that killed 12 people and injured 45

October 6: Directed a suicide attack on the French supertanker Limburg off the
coast of Yemen

October 8 : Responsible for an attack on US military personnel in Kuwait that
killed one US soldier and injured another

October 12: Bombed a nightclub in Bali, Indonesia, killing 202, mostly
westerners

October 28: Linked to shooting of US diplomat Laurence Foley in Amman, Jordan

November 28 : Bombed the Israeli-owned Paradise Hotel in Mombasa, Kenya, killing
15 and injuring 40, minutes after two missiles narrowly missed an Israeli
holiday jet that had just taken off from the city's airport

May 12 2003: Believed to be behind suicide bomb attacks on western housing
compounds in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia


LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            May 14, 2003, Wednesday

LEADING ARTICLE: THE AWFUL IMPLICATIONS OF THESE TERRORIST ATTACKS IN SAUDI
ARABIA

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 595 words


THE SAVAGE attacks on foreigners' compounds in Riyadh put the terrorist threat,
and specifically the threat from al-Qa'ida, firmly back on the international
agenda. Whatever the final death toll, these synchronised bombings have already
claimed many more lives than the attack on the housing complex for US military
at Khobar Towers seven years ago. Not only is the number of victims far greater,
but there are ominous differences in intent. These residential complexes were
not military targets. This was an attack on Westerners in general, not just on
those seen as armed occupiers.

Timed to coincide with the US Secretary of State's arrival in Saudi Arabia,
these suicide attacks sent an unambiguous message: for all the efforts of the US
and its allies to destroy al-Qa'ida, that grouping is seemingly still alive and
capable of inflicting great harm. It is still battle-ready - whatever the fate
of its presumed paymaster, Osama bin Laden. This is not a comfortable message
for the US or Britain, especially not now, as they emerge victorious from the
war in Iraq.

None of the implications of this multiple bombing is pleasant. The first is
that, whatever the ultimate fallout from the conflict in Iraq, the conclusive
military victory has not had the immediate deterrent effect on terrorism so
fervently hoped for by the Americans and the British. It is too early to judge
whether the war will provoke a backlash, but that cannot be excluded.

The second is that Washington is likely to use this attack to justify giving yet
another impetus to the war on terrorism unleashed after 11 September 2001. In
his first public response yesterday, President Bush vowed: "The war on terror
continues." The duty of Washington's allies, first and foremost the British,
must be to restrain as best they can America's twin instincts in such
circumstances - paranoia and overkill. On the other hand, the US may wonder
whether its decision to end its military presence in Saudi Arabia will reduce
the threat to its citizens in the region at all.

The third is that these attacks are likely to stall the minimal moves towards
political reform that the Saudi royal family may have been ready to countenance.
The Saudi authorities detained 19 al-Qa'ida suspects only days before this
latest bombing, uncovering quantities of arms and explosives. This marked a
reluctant acceptance by the Saudi authorities that they had a domestic terrorism
problem - something they had steadfastly denied, even though 15 of the 11
September hijackers were Saudis.

Further repression in Saudi Arabia, however, is precisely what that country does
not need. This would be a recipe for new and potentially destructive regional
instability at a time when neither Afghanistan nor Iraq is remotely peaceful.
The one benefit might be a reconsideration by the Saudi authorities of the cases
of five Britons imprisoned for bomb attacks that they absolutely deny.

The final, and most sweeping, implication of the Riyadh bombings is one that
must to be drawn from all recent terrorist attacks, from New York to Yemen to
Bali. The world is now such that all countries and their nationals must learn to
live with a certain level of terrorism and prepare for it as they can. The
compounds in Riyadh were fortified; the attackers blasted their way in, parked
their lorries and prepared to die. Better physical security cannot provide total
protection. It must be augmented by reliable intelligence and safety-conscious,
but not panicky, people. Even then, it will never be impenetrable.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                  May 14, 2003

Iraq war sparked terrorist attacks;
 Peace campaigners tell Britain and US:

BYLINE: by ROGER BAGLEY

SECTION:  Pg. 1

LENGTH: 394 words


PEACE campaigners warned yesterday that the US-led war on Iraq had lit the fuse
for a ruthless terrorist attack in Saudi Arabia which killed at least 30 people
on Tuesday night.

Suicide bombers drove vehicles packed with explosives into residential compounds
occupied by foreign workers from the US, Britain and other western countries.

The Foreign Office claimed later that it had issued a warning two weeks ago that
terrorists could be poised to strike in Saudi Arabia.

Labour MP Jeremy Corbyn said that, if the Foreign Office had had advance
knowledge of such an attack, it should have issued a stronger warning "which
might have saved lives."

Mr Corbyn condemned the "blunderbuss" policy of wholesale military attacks in
Afghanistan and Iraq, which had only served to increase tensions in Saudi Arabia
and around the world.

Huge explosions rocked the capital Riyadh as terrorists struck at three sites
after killing several Saudi sentries.

A fourth blast went off later at the headquarters of the US-Saudi owned Saudi
Maintenance Company.

The devastating attacks, which left hundreds of people injured, took place only
hours before US Secretary of State Colin Powell arrived in the country.

Pointing the finger of blame at alQaida, Mr Powell said that he was determined
to continue the "war on terror." At least 10 of the dead were US citizens.

Labour Against the War chairman Alan Simpson MP expressed shock at the huge toll
of death and injuries.

He said that it confirmed peace campaigners' warnings that the war on Iraq was
"a gift to the terrorist movement.

"It is the terrorists' version of shock and awe, " said Mr Simpson.

Stop the War Coalition chairman Andrew Murray noted: "The AngloUS occupation of
Iraq, far from eradicating the sources of terrorism in the Middle East, has
nourished them."

CND vice-chairwoman Kate Hudson said: "All the wars conducted by the US since
September 11 have only escalated tensions and problems in the world. They have
resolved nothing."

US President George W Bush denounced the attacks as "despicable acts" and
promised that those responsible would "learn the meaning of American justice.

"Any time anyone attacks our homeland, any time anyone attacks our fellow
citizens, we'll be on the hunt and we'll find them and they will be brought to
justice, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2003

               Copyright 2003 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 15, 2003, Thursday

SAUDIS IGNORED WARNINGS OF TERROR ATTACKS, SAYS US

BYLINE: ANDREW BUNCOMBE IN WASHINGTON AND JASON BENNETTO

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 357 words


RECRIMINATIONS were traded yesterday over the Riyadh bombings after the US
accused Saudi Arabia of failing to provide sufficient security for Westerners
despite a top-level request from diplomats.

Robert Jordan, America's ambassador to Saudi Arabia, said the request had been
made for greater security at compounds housing foreigners after intelligence
officials were warned of a possible terror attack. It was ignored, he said.

"As soon as we learned of this particular threat information, we contacted the
Saudi government," Mr Jordan said. "We continue to work with the Saudis on this,
but they did not, as of the time of this tragic event, provide the additional
security we requested."

The Saudi government said yesterday that 15 of its citizens were responsible for
Monday's bombings, which killed 34 people, including nine bombers. At least
seven of those who died were Americans and it was reported that Britain, Ireland
and Australia had each lost a citizen. America and Saudi Arabia believe the
attack was carried out by al-Qa'ida.

Prince Saud al-Faisal, Saudi Arabia's Foreign Minister, denied that his
government had ignored a request for additional security. "Each time the
American embassy or any other embassy seeks the intensification of security
measures, the government fulfills this request," he said.

But he acknowledged the shortfall in security that had allowed the bombers to
enter the compounds. "We have to learn from our mistakes and seek to improve our
performance in this respect," he said. He condemned the attacks as a "heinous
wound in the body of the nation".

A team of FBI investigators is assisting the investigation, which the Saudi
government said was linked to a gunfight on 6 May involving security forces and
19 suspected al-Qa'ida operatives, who escaped. Prince Nayef, the Interior
Minister, said the suspects took their orders from Osama bin Laden.

The Saudi Interior Ministry revealed yesterday that a Briton was among the dead,
but that has yet to be confirmed by the Foreign Office. A second Briton was
missing and 15 were among the injured, the Foreign Office said.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                             May 15, 2003, Thursday

TV: IRA TERROR ATTACK;
 SECRET HISTORY: BRIGHTON BOMB

BYLINE: WITH JO MANNING

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 123 words


C4 9pm I CAN remember the day the IRA nearly succeeded in killing Maggie
Thatcher and her government very well.

Despite being only seven-years-old at the time, I'll never forget those images
of a dusty Norman Tebbit in his jim jams being carefully extricated from his
blasted Brighton hotel room in the midst of the Tory party conference in 1984.

Although I'd been raised to despise Thatcher and her cronies, it really brought
home to me the lengths people would go to to fight for what they believed in -
and I was shocked.

Tonight's documentary revisits the night of October 12, 1984 in detail,
interviewing amongst others, the widow of Sir Anthony Berry, MP for Enfield
Southgate, who was one of five fatalities.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                              May 16, 2003, Friday

Terror alert as Kenya warns of another attack

BYLINE: By Robin Gedye Foreign Affairs Writer

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 500 words

A WORLDWIDE terrorist alert was sparked yesterday when Kenyan authorities issued
a warning that a prime al-Qa'eda suspect, wanted in connection with the 1998
bombings of US embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam, was planning another
attack.

Fazul Abdallah Mohammed was said to have been seen in the Kenyan port of Mombasa
recently, although intelligence officials had believed him to be in Somalia.

Mohammed was indicted by the FBI in connection with the deaths of 231 people in
the Kenyan and Tanzanian bombings. He is believed to have also masterminded
attacks in Kenya last November, when an attempt was made to shoot down an
Israeli holiday jet and 14 people died in a suicide bombing of the Paradise
Hotel in Mombasa.

Both Britain and America issued high-level travel alerts following the warning.
The Department of Transport last night suspended all flights to Kenya. The
Foreign Office's directive advised against any "non-essential" travel to Kenya
and warned British residents in Kenya to "keep a low profile".

The US state department advised Americans to defer all essential travel to Kenya
following "terrorist threats in the region aimed at American and Western
interests, including civil aviation".

It added: "The government of Kenya might not be able to prevent such attacks."

The warnings came as Lebanese intelligence officials said they had arrested nine
Lebanese believed to have been planning an attack on the US embassy in Beirut
and a series of kidnappings to force the release of Islamic militant prisoners.

Despite attempts by Kenya to improve security following the bombing of the
Nairobi embassy, little appeared to have been achieved by the time the Paradise
Hotel was hit four years later. Mohammed's reappearance in Mombasa is a stark
illustration of the ineffectiveness of its border controls. Police were forced
to alert the public to a terrorist in their midst because they had apparently
lost track of him.

Matthew Kabetu, head of Kenya's new anti-terrorism unit, said Mohammed fled to
Mogadishu, the capital of neighbouring Somalia, after the Nov 28 attack. "We
believe he's in Mombasa now, but I cannot give specifics," he said. "We are told
he's around. We are very concerned and are looking for him very seriously."

Mohammed, who was born in the Comoros Islands off Mozambique but also has a
Kenyan passport, is reported to have trained in Afghanistan with Osama bin
Laden.

Al-Qa'eda was blamed for both the 1998 embassy bombings and the Nov 28 attacks.

Insp Kabetu said he was in no doubt that an al-Qa'eda cell was currently
operating in Kenya "and we are doing everything to track it down".

He said Mohammed was using the alias Harun while living in Mombasa before the
Nov 28 attack. "We do not know much about [what he was doing] but people saw him
in mosques in Mombasa. He was a common figure," he added.

Kenya shares a long and porous border with Somalia, a Muslim country, and
movement between the two countries is relatively simple.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 16, 2003

Bin Laden ordered Saudi bomb attack;
TERROR CHIEF ALIVE AND IN CONTROL OF AL QAEDA NETWORK, SAYS US

BYLINE: Jeremy Campbell;Danielle Demetriou

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 361 words


OSAMA BIN LADEN personally ordered the devastating suicide bomb attacks in Saudi
Arabia which killed 34 people, it emerged today.

New reports revealed that Bin Laden gave his approval several months ago to the
coordinated attacks against Westerners living in Riyadh, and gave a sign for the
attackers to go ahead in the last few weeks.

One US official said: "He is as determined as ever to attack US interests."

Bin Laden is thought to be in hiding in the lawless no-man's land on the border
between Afghanistan and Pakistan. However, the latest news will confirm fears
that despite his unknown location, he firmly remains in control of the global al
Qaeda network.

Officials believe the Saudi bomb blasts were masterminded by one of Bin Laden's
top aides, Khaled Jehani. Commanding a cell of up to 60 assassins as Gulf
operations chief, Jehani is a powerful figure within al Qaeda. As many as 15 of
Monday's bombers were among his cell group.

Jehani, 29, was also among 19 terrorists who escaped a bungled police raid on a
hideout in Riyadh 10 days ago, which uncovered 829lb of explosives and his ID
papers. Jehani is suspected of helping to bomb the USS Cole off Yemen three
years ago, killing 17 American soldiers. More than 50 charges were announced
yesterday - including the Cole attack - against fellow al Qaeda suspects Fahd
Al-Quso and Jamal Ahmed Mohammed Ali al-Badawi, who fled jail in Yemen last
month.

General Richard Myers, senior military adviser to US defence secretary Donald
Rumsfeld, said the hunt for Bin Laden and his top aides continued.

He said: "They are in areas where they can bribe the people that are inclined to
support them and protect them, and they are in very difficult areas on this
earth. That does not mean we don't have people out this very minute looking for
him." Meanwhile, the US State Department warned of possible attacks within days
on Jeddah, a port city on the Red Sea.

A State Department statement said: "The US Consulate General in Jeddah has
received an unconfirmed report that a possible terrorist attack in the Al Hamra
district of Jeddah may occur in the near future."


LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: "ALIVE": BIN LADEN THOUGHT TO BE HIDING ON AFGHAN BORDER

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 16, 2003

Saudis face up to life as a soft target of Islamists: Interior minister blames
terrorist attacks on 'other countries' as civilians realise their vulnerability

BYLINE: Brian Whitaker in Riyadh and Owen Bowcott

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 599 words


Criticism of security precautions taken against al-Qaida attacks by Saudi Arabia
and British companies in the kingdom mounted yesterday as the interior minister
blamed foreign influences for the violence.

In an interview with Abu Dhabi television, Prince Nayef defended the level of
cooperation extended to the FBI, and insisted that the violence was not a
domestic problem.

"Where do the terrorists spring from? Other countries. Where do the smugglers
come from? Other countries that should dry up these sources."

His comments came as Saudis began to face up to the prospect of a more
security-conscious way of life.

They have learned that high walls and gatekeepers may deter thieves, but they
are of little use against Islamists armed with guns and bombs.

"The terrorist activity up to now was mainly against the government and military
institutions," said Asrar Khan, of a Riyadh security firm, Jamal Jaroudi. "But
now it has landed on the doorstep of the innocents. They are going for soft
targets." Security at the 150 compounds where Saudis, as well as foreigners,
live was nominal, he added. "They're not safe."

What was needed, he said, was "a mature strategy and a security audit at the
civilian level".

"At present, that maturity is not happening. Every time it is a knee-jerk
reaction."

Many compounds are near main roads, and have villas close to perimeter walls and
exposed to attack.

The devastated al-Hamra compound was an example of such a vulnerable target, Mr
Khan said.

There was almost no need for the bombers to force their way in, he added."They
could do it from the street."

The Vinnell compound, housing staff of an American company that trains the Saudi
National Guard, was better protected than most. Despite having its own access
road and being surrounded by a buffer zone, it was still attacked on Monday
night.

"Guards also need proper security," Mr Khan said.

But many still have doubts about the effectiveness of the kingdom's security
forces.

"What have they done? Prac tically nothing," said a member of Saudi Arabia's
consultative council (an appointed parliament) who asked not to be named. "They
(the authorities) had been warned by the Americans and the British, and even by
Saudi intelligence, that an attack was planned. A few days before, there was no
special security and the Americans complained that nothing had been done.

"Driving around before the attacks, I noticed just one truck-mounted machine
gun."

In Britain, the Foreign Office said it had informed the families of two missing
Britons that two bodies found after the attacks were still being identified.

A former employee of BAE Systems yesterday said he had resigned two months ago
in protest at the lack of security for the firm's staff in Saudi Arabia. John
Pollitt, from Stockport in Greater Manchester, told the Guardian that he had
raised his concern when another employee, Robert Dent, was shot dead in Riyadh
in February.

The former RAF warrant officer said he had asked why armed guards and mobile
patrols were not protecting the compounds. He is taking BAE to an industrial
tribunal, alleging constructive dismissal.

"I feel very sad at my predic tion coming true," he said. A spokesman for BAE
said that Mr Pollitt had "not revealed much information about his concerns".

"Welfare and security of all staff is the key consideration," the spokesman
said. "We have been in constant contact with the Saudi authorities and the
British embassy to ensure we take appropriate measures."

guardian.co.uk/saudi


LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                              May 16, 2003, Friday

RAPE BID TERROR;
 TEENAGER'S LIFE SENTENCE FOR ATTACK ON WOMAN

BYLINE: LIZ KEEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 315 words


A BANK clerk was terrified in a city centre car park by a convicted sex offender
who later told police: "I wanted to rape her there and then." Craig Barrett, 19,
had only been released from custody 24 hours earlier, after being locked up for
forcing his way into a woman's house in the middle of the night, taking off all
his clothes and asking her for sex.

He confessed: "I have strong urges I can't control. I was supposed to get help
last time but I didn't get any."

Today, he is beginning a life sentence. Barrett, whose family live in the Beddau
area but who at the time had been put in a Cardiff bail hostel, followed the
19-year-old bank worker to her car in the Westgate Street multi-storey car park
at 10pm on October 25 last year.

At Cardiff Crown Court, prosecutor Jonathan Austin said: "She had parked with
her driver's door tight against a concrete pillar.

"When she returned to her car, he appeared on the passenger side trying to
engage her in conversation. Feeling threatened, she squeezed back in past the
pillar and tried to shut the door. "He put his hand over her mouth, pushing her
back against her seat. She pulled the door jamming his arm, then as she
screamed, he ran off."

Barrett was caught the next day just before police were about to call in the
Echo for help in tracking him down and he pleaded guilty to attempted rape.

Mr Austin said: "The CCTV pictures were seen by a police officer who recognised
Barrett as a man she spoke to on the day of the attack."

Defence barrister Richard Twomlow said the teenager had been promised sex
offenders' therapy after the first attack.

But it was unavailable and his three-year sentence was cut to two years on
appeal.

Barrett will only be released back into the community when doctors are satisfied
he is no longer a risk to woman and he will remain on the sex offenders'
register.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 16, 2003, Friday

Secret history was a sobering reminder of a terrorist attack that could have
changed the course of British history

BYLINE: Paul Hoggart

SECTION: Features; Times2; 23

LENGTH: 880 words


It is often hard to see what is so "secret" about Channel 4's Secret History
strand, especially when revisiting events as well documented as those in
Brighton Bomb last night. Nevertheless Stephen Finnigan's account of the 1984
attempt to assassinate Margaret Thatcher was a sobering reminder of an event
that went far beyond fractiousness in what John Gummer called "a fractious
time".

The early Eighties brought riots in the streets and IRA bomb attacks. Triumph in
the Falklands and a resounding election victory had made Mrs Thatcher
unassailable and uncompromising. By the 1984 Conservative Party Conference the
miners' strike was in its 31st bitter week, and a frustrated IRA still yearned
for revenge for the deaths of Bobby Sands and nine other hunger strikers.

As the former IRA commander Sean O'Callaghan recalled, the Prime Minister had
become "a hate figure for republicans on a scale we haven't seen since
Cromwell".

According to O'Callaghan they hatched their plot, despite fears of a ferocious
backlash, because nobody on the IRA army council wanted to go down in history as
blocking an attempt to kill her.

Western leaders routinely describe terrorist attacks as "cowardly", even when,
as in the case of suicide bombings, it is palpably absurd. Any number of
undesirable characteristics may lead people to commit these atrocities, but
cowardice isn't one of them. But when John Gummer used the word to describe the
Brighton bombing it really does seem to fit -at least in the sense that the plan
was meant to involve no personal risk to the bomber.

Patrick Magee booked into the Grand Hotel under a false name a full three weeks
before the conference. He hid the bomb in the panel under the ensuite bath in a
room five floors above the Prime Minister's suite. He used a VCR timer to set
the detonator for 3am on the last night of the conference. Surely even Margaret
"short nights" Thatcher would be in bed by then?

Wrong. As her PPS, Robin Butler recalled, she got very "wound up" over her
speech, determined to better a succession of personal best efforts by her
ministers.

Together they wrote draft after draft. That was what kept her up. Admirers could
say that she was saved by her commitment to her job, detractors that she was
saved by her vanity. Both would be right.

The story goes that she missed death by moments, but this doesn't necessarily
seem to follow. The bedroom was damaged, but her husband Dennis was in the twin
bed and wasn't hurt. The bathroom was wrecked, so she might have come to grief
there. But it seems that the bomb was big enough to kill five and wound many
more on the intervening floors, without being powerful enough to make sure of
dispatching the main target. That was the IRA's second miscalculation. Either
way she ended rewriting that pesky speech again.

This was really the story of how an attempt to change the course of history (and
it most certainly would have done) was turned into a massive symbolic triumph by
the intended victim. Such adversity was rocket-fuel to her. They were still
pulling people from the rubble when she walked into the Conference next morning
on time and through the front door. She was cool, composed and determined. This
was "a sign, not only that this attack has failed, but that all attempts to
destroy democracy by terrorism will fail!" Even the hardened political hacks
stood to applaud her.

In the event the embryonic peace process began a year later with the Anglo Irish
Agreement. Secret behind-the-scenes negotiations were to follow, but what would
linger in the minds of the British public was the image of her majestic defiance
that morning.

The most poignant contributions concerned Norman Tebbitt, not a man normally
associated with poignancy. He recalled the warm glow he had felt from the
reception of his speech. He had become the "darling of the conference", so
perhaps this very success had indirectly helped to keep his leader alive.

He described lying trapped for hours, holding his wife's hand. Trapped herself,
Lady Berry thought that she could hear him groaning in agony. The film of the
battered, ashen Trade and Industry Secretary being pulled awkwardly through a
gap in the rubble became one of the defining images of the decade. His warm
glow, of course, was followed by the long pain of his wife's paralysis. In the
end that may have been the IRA's most surprising achievement that night. They
succeeded making even left-wingers feel genuine sympathy for Norman Tebbitt.

A more positive contribution to British life by patriotic Irishmen came in Roy
Keane: As I See It (Five). The Manchester United midfielder spoke at length
about his career, including his version of the bust-up with the former Irish
national team manager Mick McCarthy.

The trouble is that Keane has a flat, quiet, monotonous voice. Worse, what he
had to say wasn't really very interesting, except perhaps, to devoted United
fans. I always watch review tapes to the bitter end, but this became a form of
slow torture. Maybe it could be used as a legal way of softening up terrorist
suspects during interrogations. "Perhaps another hour or two of Roy Keane will
loosen your tongue!" "Noooo! Mr bin Laden is at 3 Acacia Road. Ring top bell."


LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton and Hove

                                  May 16, 2003

Driver's brick attack terror

BYLINE: Chris Baker (chris.baker@theargus.co.uk)

LENGTH: 236 words


A teenager escaped death by inches when house bricks were hurled over a 50ft
terrace crashing into his parked car.

Chris Leach 18 was about to get into his Ford Orion left in the seafront car
park at Madeira Drive Brighton when the bricks rained down from above.

One of the bricks crashed through his windscreen a second dented the roof.

Another bounced off the car and struck Mr Leach of Stapley Road Hove a glancing
blow on the hand.

Police today said they had been informed about a series of similar attacks in
the past week and were concerned about the dangerous trend.

Mr Leach said: "I was standing next to the car and I just heard this loud crash
the windscreen was smashed and the back was damaged.

One of the bricks that hit the windscreen bounced off and hit me aswell. If one
had hit me on the head I would definitely have been dead.

As many as seven bricks are thought to have be thrown in the incident which
occurred at about 11pm on Wednesday.

Police said a rock landed on a coach parked in Madeira Drive on Tuesday breaking
a skylight.

Another coach had a window broken when it was struck later the same day.

A car was hit by a rock or brick thrown from the terraces in a third incident on
Tuesday.

Anybody with information should contact Brighton and Hove police on 01273
6070999. The damage to Mr Leach's car is being investigated by PC Sharon
Rashand.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                  May 17, 2003

Crackdown plea in home raids terror;
 Concerns after spate of attacksConcerns after spate of attacks

BYLINE: By Ashleigh Wallaceemail: awallace@belfasttelegraph.co.uk

LENGTH: 428 words


POLICE chiefs came under growing pressure today to tackle violence against home
owners in residential areas of Northern Ireland.

Politicians said householders are increasingly alarmed by vicious attacks on
families, often in middle income and wealthy areas.

Recent horror raids include:

The vicious beating of businessman Maurice McCracken in Strangford Avenue, south
Belfast by a car theft gang;

a hammer attack on a father in Dorchester Park, south Belfast by a gang that
stole two cars;

a hammer attack on a businessman by burglars in Dorchester Drive, Glengormley on
Thursday evening;

the kidnapping of a postmaster and his son in Greenisland;

an attack in Newtownabbey where burglars drove two cars, one of which was the
family's, into a man and his wife who had challenged them after their house
alarm was triggered.

The chairman of the Belfast District Policing Partnership today called for more
police officers to patrol the streets.

Councillor Jim Rodgers said the recent spate of 'creeper' burglaries - break
-ins designed to seize car keys - in the greater Belfast area were making him
fearful in his own home.

South Belfast councillor Carmel Hanna also called for action, including
neighbourhood watch schemes to be put in place across the city.

Councillor Rodgers, who is chairman of the Belfast District Police Partnership,
said it was no longer enough for police to talk about such crimes, saying people
across the city needed to see more police on the streets.

Mr Rodgers said: "I predicted that under Patten, with a reduction in the number
of police, we would experience problems we never had before and unfortunately
this is one of them.

"We need more police manpower and we need more experienced officers and the
Chief Constable is going to have to take stock."

Carmel Hanna revealed she has written to the Assistant Chief Constable for
greater Belfast, requesting a meeting to discuss more policing.

She also suggested the emergence of neighbourhood watch schemes.

"They are not a quick fix but I have studied them in other countries and in the
long-term, the areas do experience a reduction in crime."

In response to calls for extra policing, a PSNI spokesman said: "The police
strive to provide an efficient and effective police service to the resident
population and the business community which it serves with the resources
available.

"This includes the provision of crime prevention advice to any member of the
community who wishes to contact their local police station."


LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 17, 2003

Car bombs kill 20 in city centre attack;2am: Casablanca hit as terror alert
increases

BYLINE: William Tinning And Alison Chiesa

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 517 words


AT least 20 people were killed last night in a series of car bomb attacks in
Morocco, only hours after the Foreign Office in Britain warned of a "clear
terrorist threat" in six African countries.

Morocco was not included in the list but authorities in the north African
country confirmed last night that the explosions were of "criminal origin".

MAP, the official Moroccan news agency, said at least 20 people died in the
blasts. There were burned-out vehicles at four sites near consulates and
restaurants in the centre of Casablanca, Morocco's economic heart.

The US State department confirmed that there had been four car bombs, with one
of the targets thought to be a synagogue, or Jewish community centre. "No US
government facility was targeted," Joanne Moore, a department spokes-man, said
in Washington.

Other explosions were believed to be aimed at the Hotel Safir, located in the
old heart of the city centre, the Belgian consulate, and a restaurant, all in
different parts of town.

The Jewish and Spanish cultural centres were also hit, where eyewitnesses said
there was widespread damage.

"There are body parts all over the place," one unnamed Moroccan journalist told
BBC World Service radio.

However, a senior security source in Morocco said it was not yet clear what the
targets were.

The earlier Foreign Office warning covers Tanzania, Uganda, Ethiopia, Djibouti,
Eritrea and Somalia, which all border Kenya. It was issued 24 hours after all
British Airways flights to and from Kenya were suspended by the government
because of an "imminent" terrorist threat to UK planes by al Qaeda.

Holiday companies have cancelled all bookings to Kenya for the next seven days
following the government's decision. Unlike with Kenya, British nationals are
not advised against all non-essential travel to the six countries but are
cautioned to be on their guard, particularly in public places frequented by
foreigners.

However, fresh terror warnings have also been issued by several other countries
in Africa, Asia and the Middle East. The US State Department has told Americans
in Saudi Arabia of a possible imminent attack on Jeddah.

The attacks in Riyadh, the Saudi capital, on Monday, which killed at least 34
people, including two Britons, highlighted the danger posed to westerners by
terrorists, the Foreign Office said. The attacks targeted residential compounds
housing foreigners.

The new advice warns that each of the six countries "is one of a number of
countries in East Africa where there is a clear terrorist threat". This was
upgraded from an earlier warning of an "increased threat" from terror groups. It
adds: "The bomb attack in Riyadh on May 12 shows that the terrorist threat
remains real."

Commercial flights between Britain and Kenya were suspended after a Kenyan
government minister said there was intelligence that al Qaeda terrorists were
planning another attack in east Africa. Kenya said yesterday there was an al
Qaeda threat to British Airways flights to Nairobi, but Britain denied anything
specific was behind its ban.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        May 17, 2003, Saturday Edition 1

Intelligence services warn of more terror attacks

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 32

LENGTH: 164 words


   Security officials and diplomats in the Gulf, the Far East and East Africa
were last night trying to piece together the strands of intelligence pointing to
imminent major al-Qaida terror attacks.

Expatriate workers in Saudi Arabia stayed indoors following a US warning about
another possible terror attack in Jeddah, days after two Britons were among 34
people killed in synchronised suicide bombings in the capital Riyadh.

One American official said intelligence "indicated that there was going to be a
stream of attacks, and so we have confidence that has begun."

Analysts said the al-Qaida leadership has been severely weakened by 19 months of
counter-terrorism operations and is seeking to prove it can still attack US
interests to capitalise on Monday's strikes in Saudi Arabia.

Some plans being detected by US and foreign intelligence agencies appear to have
been in the works for months, if not longer, but are being brought to fruition
quickly, they said.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                             May 17, 2003, Saturday

US WARNS OF MORE TERROR ATTACKS ON WESTERNERS IN SAUDI ARABIA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 288 words


AMERICAN officials warned US citizens in Saudi Arabia yesterday that there could
be many more terror attacks like the one on Monday night.

The Red Sea port of Jiddah was the focus of the new alert and the families of
American diplomats living in the area were temporarily rehoused.

The US warning said, "There is an unconfirmed report that a possible terrorist
attack in the Al Hamra district of Jiddah may occur in the near future. US
citizens are encouraged to maintain a high level of vigilance."

One American official said intelligence had indicated there was going to be a
stream of attacks, "and so we have confidence that has begun".

The increased vigilance came after US criticism that the Saudis had not done
enough to prevent Monday's attacks by suspected al-Qaeda suicide bombers on
three residential compounds used by Westerners in the capital, Riyadh.

US Ambassador Robert Jordan described the carefully-planned, almost simultaneous
strikes as "if not the Saudi September 11, it was certainly the Saudis' Pearl
Harbour".

He said there was a clear suggestion that the attack was aimed at undermining
the government as much as it was aimed at American interests.

Two of the compounds housed employees of the Saudi National Guard, headed by
Crown Prince Abdullah, and air force workers in the Defence Ministry, led by
Prince Sultan. Both are brothers of King Fahd. The third is owned by the deputy
governor of Riyadh, second only to the governor, Prince Salman, also a brother
of the king. Saudi officials have said the attacks were linked to Osama bin
Laden's al-Qaeda terror network, which has long vowed to rid Saudi Arabia, home
to Islam's holiest sites, of any Western influence.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              May 18, 2003, Sunday

IS ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD STILL SAFE? TERROR: FOCUS;
 TERRORIST ATTACKS ARE CREATING MORE DANGER ZONES, MAKING MORE OF THE

BYLINE: COLE MORETON Police patrol the beach in Mombasa yesterday after the
Kenyan government warned that terrorists were believed to be operating in the
vicinity. Last week British Airways suspended flights to the East African
country SCHALK VAN ZUYDAM/AP

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 892 words


The global village is shrinking again. We got used to thinking of the planet as
one big peaceful playground, made reachable and affordable by better and cheaper
transport. Now the bombs in Casablanca provide yet another reason - as if it
were needed - for fearful former travellers to stay at home.

The village green is probably still a safe place for a game of cricket (as long
as you keep your eyes open) but don't stray beyond the boundary or you might get
blown to pieces. That's how it feels, anyway, as the number of dangerous places
seems to escalate by the day.

Four years ago David and Trish Jarvis of St Albans, Hertfordshire, flew to
Israel for a holiday. Their son Mark joined a volunteer team building wells in
Tanzania, while their daughter Jemima was backpacking in the southern
Philippines. This year every one of those countries is the subject of a warning
by the Foreign Office, which says travellers should avoid them because of the
high threat of terrorism. The Jarvises are going to the Cotswolds.

"There has been a lot of talk about the world turning into one big global
village in recent years," says Frances Tuke of the Association of British Travel
Agents (Abta). "That just won't be the case any more if this goes on."

Not that there is any such thing as a completely safe place. "Just before the
war the Foreign Office put out a general global alert for terrorism and that
still stands. Staying in Britain is not necessarily safe, although we do have
pretty good security forces in place."

Big travel agencies can adjust relatively easily to threats, she says, by
switching locations. "It is the smaller operators who specialise in particular
countries that are going to be hit. We have seen that in China with Sars and we
expect it will be the case with Kenya and Morocco."

Abta members have no choice but to follow government advice. "We do not have the
same access to independent information, so we have to accept the warnings. The
safety of the traveller is paramount."

The Foreign Office says it doesn't warn against travel to all countries in which
there is a risk of terrorism. "If we were to do so it could cover a large
proportion of the world, serving only to cause panic and disrupt normal life.
That is precisely what terrorists are striving to achieve."

The FO advice contains a chilling list of attacks in the past 18 months that
received less attention than those in Kenya and Bali. They include suicide
attacks on a synagogue in Tunisia and a bus in Karachi; explosions on the Costa
Blanca, the Costa del Sol and in Spanish cities; shootings in Yemen and Saudi
Arabia; an attack on a nightclub in Colombia; and bombs at airports in the
Philippines and Indonesia.

"These attacks show that terrorists are prepared to attack the least
well-protected targets such as innocent holidaymakers," says the FO, "as long as
they can be seen to hit at Western interests."

In some "dangerous" places, however, there is a threat only if you become
involved in internal disputes. Lewis Doney, 23, has just returned from six
months as an environmental and educational volunteer in eastern Nepal. The
struggle between the government and Maoists led the Foreign Office to warn of
"an increased risk of terrorism" but Mr Doney saw little trouble. "The police
leave you alone because they have never heard of Westerners becoming Maoists and
the Maoists do not bother you because they know it would lead to a big
crackdown. So we tend to be little more than spectators."

The warnings can have dire consequences for those working in the countries
concerned. Not surprisingly they protest. "The British authorities are being
over-zealous," says Colin Church, head of the Kenya Wildlife Service. "I accept
the country has been put on high alert but a blanket ban on flights is so
damaging. Revenue to parks will be directly affected if a review of the
situation is not made very soon." If game parks do not attract money from
tourism the government may turn parts of them over to farming.

A decade ago American tour operators were reluctant to come to Britain because
of the IRA bombing campaign. Hoteliers in the countryside protested that they
were miles from any danger, but that didn't cut much ice on the other side of
the Atlantic. Meanwhile tourism in the Republic of Ireland suffered because some
Brits thought they might be at risk there. Now there is a similar danger of
terrorists having a far greater impact than their actions really warrant,
because of fear and the lack of basic knowledge about the places we go on
holiday.

Casablanca is an industrial town some way from the main Moroccan tourist centre
of Marrakesh. Tourists do not seem to have been the target on Friday. "We go to
Agadir in the south which is 300 miles from Casablanca," says a spokesman for
Airtours. "Unless the FO changes its advice we will continue to operate."

Perhaps they are on to something: a way to beat the terrorists, if you have the
nerve. The bombers depend on surprise and are reluctant to strike where security
is tight - as it invariably is anywhere that has just been hit. Flights to Bali
became dirt cheap after the bombing but there has been no trouble there since.
The terrible truth is that a last-minute holiday in Casablanca next week will
almost certainly be a bargain.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                              May 18, 2003, Sunday

Al-Qaeda's hand seen in attacks on Casablanca Warning over terror group's
reorganisation before suicide bombers strike Jewish targets

BYLINE: BY PHILIP SHERWELL in Casablanca

SECTION: Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1102 words

FIFTY FEET above street level, the recently whitewashed balconies of the Hotel
Mauritania were splattered with rust-red bloodstains yesterday, the legacy of
the most lethal of the suicide bomb explosions that ripped through Casablanca on
Friday night.

Morocco's biggest city had been in festive mood, celebrating the birth of King
Mohammed VI's first son, but by the end of the night body parts were strewn
through its streets. At least 41 people, including 10 bombers, died and scores
were injured in the five co-ordinated and near-simultaneous blasts in the
country's commercial centre. Four of the targets were linked to the city's
Jewish community or Israeli visitors. Although there was no claim of
responsibility, the attacks bore the hallmarks of an al-Qaeda operation.

The Hotel Mauritania stands opposite the upmarket Casa de Espana club and
restaurant in central Casablanca, a haunt of European expatriates. About 100
people were eating, drinking and playing bingo when the bombers launched their
murderous attack.

Rafael Bermudez, the club president, wiped away tears as he described the
shocking events of the previous night. The Spanish businessman had been sitting
with friends on the terrace when two loud blasts ripped through the building.
Even then, he first thought that they were electrical short-circuits - until he
heard the screams of the injured and dying.

On the steps at the club's entrance he pointed to the pool of blood where the
three assailants slit the throat of the long-time doorman, Mohammed Kharami. One
of the men had remained on guard there while the other two made their way into
the packed bar before detonating what are believed to have been belts of
explosives.

Many of the victims were blown to pieces. Rescue workers spent most of the night
and morning retrieving body parts, some of which had been hurled on to
neighbouring rooftops. The terrace remained a charred jumble of wreckage, ripped
clothing and congealed blood.

Throughout yesterday, as he surveyed the damage in stunned silence, friends from
the city's Spanish community joined him at the scene, hugging each other and
shaking their heads in disbelief. "I have no idea how many people died. The
place was packed. We never expected this, not here. We have never had problems
like this in Casablanca before," said Mr Bermudez, 58, who has lived in the city
for more than 20 years.

Most of the victims were Moroccans, although the overall death toll is also
believed to include at least two Spaniards, two French nationals and two
Italians. Lamia Haffi, a club employee, said simply: "Inside there was flesh;
flesh everywhere."

Within 30 minutes suicide bombers also attacked the five-star Hotel Safir, a
Jewish community centre, the Jewish cemetery and the Belgian consulate, which
stands next to a Jewish-owned restaurant.

The casualty figures would have been much higher had the Jewish centre not been
hit on Friday night, after the start of the Sabbath. About 40 Israelis were
staying at the Hotel Safir but were not among the casualties. Four British
guests were also moved from the hotel after the blast.

As the Sabbath ended last night Jews gathered at the Benarrosh synagogue to say
prayers for the dead and give thanks that the death toll was not even higher.
For the city's small Jewish population, there was fear mixed with defiance.

"We are hoping and praying that this was a one-off," said a woman. "We feel
scared and insecure but we are not going to leave. Jews and Arabs have lived
alongside each other in peace for centuries. We are like brothers and sisters. I
was born here, grew up here and I will die here."

The attacks were launched after a global terrorist alert and warnings that
al-Qaeda had reorganised and was planning strikes. Governments around the world
ordered national security to be tightened as Paul Wolfowitz, the US deputy
defence secretary, said that the blasts in Casablanca were not a surprise. "The
terrorists are still there. They are still dangerous," he said. "They want to
take Arab Muslim people backward . . . but I do not believe that that is where
the great majority of Arabs and Muslims want to go."

Although the Moroccan government did not directly implicate al-Qaeda, it emerged
yesterday that a senior member of the Islamic fundamentalist Salafi movement in
Morocco had referred to a possible attack by Osama bin Laden's followers in a
magazine article published earlier on Friday.

Abu Seif al-Islam, whose movement is considered sympathetic to bin Laden, told
al-Majalla, a Saudi-owned weekly magazine, that it was time to "globalise" the
jihad, or holy war.

"After September 11, the jihad has become open everywhere," he said. "I think
that when the conditions are right al-Qaeda will not hesitate to hit Morocco.
The current tendency is not to let the enemy feel safe anywhere."

Asked about the possibility of a strike by al-Qaeda against Jews in Morocco, Abu
Seif replied: "Morocco is at the heart of the conflict because it is impossible
to target the 'Crusaders' in their homes and to exclude Morocco."

As a moderate Muslim state and ally of America, the country has long been
reviled by Islamic extremists. Fearful of the sort of violent Islamic insurgency
that has torn apart neighbouring Algeria, the government delayed local elections
scheduled for last month because of its concern at the rise of fundamentalism.

In February, in a tape recording widely believed to carry the voice of bin
Laden, the Saudi-born terrorist leader described Morocco as an "apostate" Arab
country. In the same month, three Saudi men arrested in Casablanca last year
were sentenced to 10 years in jail for plotting attacks on British and American
warships in the Strait of Gibraltar.

It is believed that Casablanca, a cosmopolitan city where many women wear
Western clothes and most people follow a liberal interpretation of Islam, has
been singled out by hardline Muslims for its "decadence". Many locals stayed
home last night, steering clear of normally popular street cafes. "People are
very frightened. We never thought this would happen in Casablanca," said Driss
Ksikes, the chief editor of a Moroccan news magazine.

Some residents criticised Morocco's crackdown on Islamic fundamentalists,
believing that it may have prompted fresh fervour among extremists.

These were the first terrorist attacks in Morocco for nine years. In a cafe near
the Belgian consulate, residents vented their anger at the bombings. "It is
shameful," said one customer. "My identity as an Arab and as a Muslim has been
wounded. Islam is against this."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                  May 18, 2003

'Nowhere safe from terrorist attacks'

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 660 words


No country with Western links is safe from terrorist attacks in the wake of the
Moroccan suicide bombings, a security expert has warned.




Five explosions tore through the heart of Casablanca on Friday evening, killing
41 people.

A Jewish community centre and cemetery, the Belgian consulate, a Spanish
restaurant and the luxury Hotel Safir were all ravaged by the bombings.

Without directly implicating Al-Qaida, the Moroccan government - an ally of
America - laid the blame on international terrorism.

Just five days earlier 34 people were killed in a suicide attack in Saudi
Arabia.

Paul Beaver, a defence and security analyst, said the spate of terror attacks
was unpredictable.

Trying to draw a pattern together here is exactly what all the intelligence
agencies around the world will be doing, he said. There is really no pattern and
this is the difficulty - they no longer follow a pattern.

Mr Beaver said extremists were known to live in Morocco but that it was a
country where different religions were tolerated.

But after terrorist bombings on Bali and Mombasa late last year, he said the
whole world was vulnerable.

He said: There is no doubt in my mind that we are now in a state where (an
attack) could happen in Europe, America, Asia - anywhere that has a Western
connection.

I think we are into the phase of people operating against Western targets that
are unguarded. We have gone through the period of attacking American bases,
American facilities - those are now too well guarded.

Mr Beaver said Western countries were all now tarred with the same brush and
seen as anti-Islam.

Britain was one of the safest countries because of its history of dealing with
terrorism. Britain has the advantage of being prepared for these things, it
would be the hardest target to go for, he said, although he warned against
complacency.

A Home Office spokeswoman called the threat of terrorist attack real and
serious.

She said: Much has been done since September 11 to target terrorists, but no
country is immune from attack. It is simply not possible to guarantee freedom
from attacks in the future.

She said the Home Office dealt with specific and general threats very carefully
and would take whatever steps we believe necessary to protect the public.

The Government will never hesitate to issue a warning if it is the best way to
protect any community or anyone facing a specific and credible threat, she said.

The Foreign Office has urged Britons travelling to Morocco to avoid crowds and
places frequented by foreigners.

Tourists are warned that there is a clear threat from international terrorism
and that they should keep a high level of vigilance in hotels and restaurants.

As Casablanca reeled from the bombings, a British businessman who escaped the
attacks arrived back in Britain yesterday.

Mel Potter, 50, from Durham, was in the Moroccan city with three colleagues.

Mr Potter, who is married to Anne and has two children - Aron, 24, and Faye, 21
- had been out for dinner with Tony Wilson, 51, from Peterlee, Brian Reed, 40,
from Hartlepool, and a fourth man who did not want to be named, when a suicide
bomber struck at the Hotel Safir where they were staying.

The men, who all work for a clothing company, were returning from their meal
when they heard the blast.

Three people, including the bomber, were killed and at least one other person
critically injured, Mr Potter was told.

I don't really understand why they have done it and what they want out of doing
it, he said. Those people had gone into a hotel and actually killed Moroccan
people.

Describing the moment when the bomb went off, he said: We were just coming out
of the place where we had been to eat. People were saying 'it's a bomb, it's a
bomb'. It was a bit of a panicky scene.

I did hear the explosion. I was 500 yards away at the time when it actually went
up. We couldn't see it from where we were.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              May 19, 2003, Monday

ROBBER TERROR IN CAR;
 KNIFE ATTACKERS SOUGHT

BYLINE: MARK COWAN SUSPECT: Tanveer Mohammed, who police want to question about
a car-jacking (EM 16)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 152 words


WEST Midlands Police today released details of a suspected robber they want to
quiz over a knifepoint carjacking.

Tanveer Mohammed, 20, who police believe is living in Aston, is wanted in
connection with the attack in Ivyhouse Lane, Dudley, in March last year.

He is also wanted after failing to appear at court.

The victim was attacked as he gave a test drive to two men who claimed to be
interested in buying his Ford Escort cabriolet.

The man sitting in the rear pulled out a 9in carving knife and held it to the
man's throat. As the vehicle came to a halt, the victim was punched and kicked
out of the car, suffering head, shoulder and knee injuries.

Police today released the photograph of Mohammed as part of the Evening Mail's
Robber-A-Day campaign.

If you know of his whereabouts call the anonymous Crimestoppers hotline on 0800
555111, quoting the code below the photograph.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 19, 2003

Terror attacks: You let terrorists off hook, Bush told: Democrats attack
presidential record on homeland security

BYLINE: Matthew Engel in Washington

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 582 words


The attacks in Riyadh and Casablanca emboldened the Democrats contending for
next year's presidential nomination to launch the most vigorous attack yet on
President George Bush's war on terrorism.

The highlight of a hustings event involving most of the candidates in Iowa on
Saturday came when they gave a standing ovation to a New York fire department
paramedic who accused the president of breaking his promises and refusing to
fund homeland security.

However, several leading candidates also took the chance to move on to what has
been thought to be the president's strongest issue. Congressman Richard Gephardt
said: "We are vulnerable to future attacks because this administration has not
done its job."

Governor Howard Dean accused the White House of "strangling cities and towns" by
refusing them money for protection.

Perhaps most significantly, the bombings offered a new impetus to the
presidential campaign of Senator Bob Graham of Florida, the oldest, probably
least-known and maybe the weirdest of the nine Democratic candidates challenging
Mr Bush.

Mr Graham was reported to have stolen the show in Iowa with a powerful attack on
the administration's decision to invade Iraq as a distraction. "They have
conducted an ideological war in Iraq . . . and at the same time they have
stopped the war against terror," he said. "We have let al-Qaida off the hook."

What makes Mr Graham's attack unusually potent is that he was chairman of the
Senate intelligence committee until the Democrats lost their majority there this
year, giving him privileged access to classified information.

And over the past few months he has positioned himself as the prophet of
American doom, with constant, well-informed attacks on the administration for
leaving the country open to attack.

He warned the Senate last October that they would have blood on their hands if
they failed to listen. Several Republican colleagues who specialise in
intelligence issues have backed him up.

When he announced his candidacy this month, Mr Graham's main theme was that the
president had chosen "to settle old scores" in Iraq instead of tackling what he
has called "imminent" threats.

The renewed evidence of al-Qaida's viability gives the Graham campaign
unexpected importance, partly by allowing other candidates to stake out similar
territory.

Mr Graham is still not yet seen as a serious challenger to the frontrunners to
the nomination, (presumed to be Senators John Kerry and John Edwards), partly
because he is 66 and has had a heart operation, partly because - on all other
issues - he has a dreary speaking style and partly because of his
eccentricities.

He obsessively keeps a daily journal in colour-coded notebooks. This is not a
diary that might make a revelatory political bestseller: it focuses instead on
noting every detail of his life, including what he eats for breakfast and which
suit he wears.

Al Gore is believed to have rejected him as a possible vice-presidential
candidate for fear that voters would find this too fertile a field for mockery.

Given that Mr Graham comes from Florida, this may have been a mistake. And the
combination of Florida and credibility on terrorism may make him an irresistible
candidate for the vice-presidential nomination next year.

The War We Could Not Stop: The Real Story of the Battle for Iraq is published by
Guardian Books and Faber. To order a copy for pounds 7.99 inc UK p&p, call 0870
066 7850


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 19, 2003

Terror attacks: New warning to British travellers

BYLINE: David Pallister

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 691 words


The Foreign Office warned British travellers yesterday of a "clear" or "high"
risk of terrorist attacks in Morocco, the sixth such warning for an African
country.

Foreign Office advice not to make non-essential trips applies only to Kenya, but
the transport secretary, Alistair Darling, may have raised the travelling
public's anxiety by insisting that armed sky marshals would be deployed on
British aircraft "if necessary."

The proposal was greeted with dismay by airlines when it was first mooted last
December. They described the idea as "irresponsible, dangerous and
ill-conceived".

The marshals, believed to number around 20, are police firearms experts carrying
handguns with low-velocity bullets.

Marshals have been used by the Israeli airline El Al for nearly 30 years and
6,000 have been trained in America since the September 11 attacks on New York
and Washington.

No one at the Department of Transport, the Metropolitan police or the airlines
would say yesterday whether any had actually been on an aircraft.

But a spokeswoman for British Airways said: "We remain concerned about the use
of any kind of firearms on any aircraft. We believe the way to prevent problems
on an aircraft is to have stringent procedures in place on the ground."

Any use of marshals would have to be cleared with an airline in advance. But the
pilot, as the person ultimately responsible for passenger safety, could refuse
to take off.

After the suicide attacks in Morocco and the suspension of all BA flights to
Kenya on Thursday, the Metropolitan police said there was no specific
intelligence about terrorist threats in the UK but the security alert remained
at a "high level". In the foyer of Scotland Yard, however, the routine warning
notice put it at "standard".

Africa has now become the most dangerous continent for British travellers either
because of the terrorist threat or civil unrest. Travellers are advised against
all travel to three countries: the Central African Republic, Liberia and
Burundi. Of the 25 countries where there is some danger, 13 are in Africa.

Last week the warning about possible terrorist attacks was raised to a "clear"
or "high" threat for Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Somalia, Tanzania and Uganda.
Even for countries with no history of terrorism like Madagascar, the Foreign
Office says: "You should be aware of the risk of indiscriminate terrorist
attacks, in all countries of the world, against civilian targets in public
places, including tourist sites."

British visitors to Morocco are now told: "You should maintain a high level of
vigilance in public places such as hotels, restaurants and shopping malls and
exercise good security practice."

A British businessman who escaped the terror attacks in Casablanca arrived back
in Britain yesterday on a flight to Newcastle via Amsterdam. Mel Potter, 50, who
works for a clothing company, was in the Moroccan city with three colleagues
when the blast happened.

Mr Potter, from Durham, had been out for dinner with Tony Wilson, 51, from
Peterlee, Brian Reed, 40, from Hartlepool, and a fourth man who did not want to
be named, when a suicide bomber struck at the Hotel Safir, where they were
staying.

They were returning from their meal when they heard the blast. Mr Potter said:
"I don't really understand why they have done it and what they want out of doing
it. Those people had gone into a hotel and actually killed Moroccan people.

"We were just coming out of the place where we had been to eat. People were
saying 'it's a bomb, it's a bomb'. It was a bit of a panicky scene. I was 500
yards away at the time when it actually went up."

BA said it had rapidly coped with the problem of bringing holidaymakers home
after its flights to and from Nairobi were suspended. A number of charters have
been ferrying people to Entebbe in Uganda for BA connections to London. There
are, as yet, no plans to lift the ban. British holiday companies have cancelled
all bookings to Kenya until at least the end of this week.

The remains of the Spanish club's restaurant, and Mel Potter, who saw the
aftermath


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 19, 2003

Terror attacks: Three Saudi bombers escaped police

BYLINE: Brian Whitaker in Riyadh

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 364 words


Three of the suicide bombers who attacked housing complexes in Saudi Arabia last
week were among 19 men who escaped arrest during police raids six days earlier,
Prince Nayef, the interior minister, said yesterday.

The prince's admission is likely to raise further questions about the competence
of the security forces, who have already been accused of failing to step up
precautions in the kingdom despite warnings that a serious attack was imminent.

Prince Nayef also raised doubts about the likely extent of Saudi cooperation
with FBI investigators who have arrived in Riyadh with specialised equipment.

Seventeen Saudis, a Yemeni and an Iraqi fled during the botched round-up of
suspects on May 6. A search of a car and flat used by them later uncovered more
than 370kg (about 800lb) of RDX military explosive, together with guns,
disguises and other equipment.

"Three of those who died in the bombings were from the 19," Prince Nayef told a
press conference in the Saudi capital, Riyadh.

Four people are being interrogated in connection with the bombings, he added.

"They are not among those who committed the bombings but they are from the same
group. They have the same ideology."

He said he believed there was a link between the attacks in Saudi Arabia and
those in Morocco at the weekend.

Asked about cooperation with FBI investigators, Prince Nayef said the FBI had
come to the kingdom "at the request of the American authorities because there
were deaths and injuries on the American side" and they would be welcome to look
at the site.

A questioner pointed out that the FBI was expecting to do more than look at the
site and asked the prince if this was what he really meant.

The prince replied: "We welcome them here to inspect the site and location of
the bombs."

He said rumours of other bombings and shootings in the kingdom were baseless.
"Those who spread rumours will be punished."

Foreigners who live and work in Saudi Arabia would be protected, he said, "but
we don't give any guarantees."

"No one on earth can guarantee there will be no terrorist attacks, but here in
the kingdom we always catch the culprits."


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 19, 2003

Terror attacks: Casablanca's shanty town poverty that spawned attackers

BYLINE: Giles Tremlett in Casablanca

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 815 words


As Moroccan police swept through some of the poorest shanty towns of Casablanca
yesterday, hunting Islamist radicals who helped suicide bombers kill 41 people
on Friday, Khalid Aits was worrying not about fanaticism but about work, food
and poverty.

Loitering on the corner of a litter-strewn, dirt alleyway in the Sidi Moumen
shanty town, from where most of the 33 young radicals picked up over the weekend
came, he shrugged his shoulders at the idea of an Islamist revolution in his
neighbourhood.

"People want work. They want to earn money. That is what they really care about
here," the 23-year-old said.

A walk through Sidi Moumen, past washing lines, barefoot children , and
colourful rugs set out in the sun, reveals the poverty and desperation. Khalid
shares the tiny rooms of his brickshack with 16 relatives. There is no running
water, and bony mules and horses add their waste to the human detritus. "It is
just as bad as a village in the countryside," Khalid said, indicating an even
poorer Morocco beyond these slums.

The divide here, in a country with a long tradition of religious tolerance and
co-existence with Judaism, is not between Islamists and nonIslamists, but
between rich and poor.

It finds its other expression in the huge, green-tiled mansions of the Ain Diab
neighbourhood that look out over the elegant Atlantic beaches of La Corniche and
the designer-clad people who gather to play.

While authorities yesterday blamed the influence of al-Qaida and Osama Bin Laden
for the attacks by 14 suicide bombers on five foreign and Jewish targets,
Casablancans were still surprised the perpetrators had been Moroccans.

Most believed that Morocco, where even the powerful, banned Islamist movement
known as Justice and Charity is relatively moderate and against violence, would
remain unshaken by the radicalism that brought a 10-year civil war to
neighbouring Algeria.

In February three Saudis in an al-Qaida cell planning attacks on US and British
ships were sentenced in Casablanca. But that was considered an example of
foreign militants.

There had, however, been other warnings. Police last year arrested 11 radicals
from a Salafist sect after a series of punishment killings of those deemed
apostates, including one man reeling drunkenly out of a bar in the middle-class
playground of La Corniche.

The leader of the so-called Serat Al Mustaquin, or Direct Path, Salafist group,
Youssef Fikir, wrote a letter before his trial a few months ago to the As Sahifa
newspaper in which he warned that "other things will happen", according to its
publisher, Aboubakr Jamai.

Al-Qaida itself, in a recent tape released to al-Jazeera, named Morocco as one
of six Muslim states "most eligible for liberation".

The attacks would have been far worse if, with their cheap clothes, the
attackers, some little more than teenagers, had not been so obviously from the
poor end of town. Stopped by doormen and guards at the Hotel Farah, the Israeli
Alliance club, and at a Jewish-owned Italian restaurant outside the Belgian
consulate, they only managed to make their way past 52-year-old Haj, the doorman
at the Casa de Espana, exploding their bombs at the doorways of the other
targets. Most of the dead were in the Spanish club.

"Haj asked for their membership card, so they slit his throat," said a
neighbour, Abdul Saafi, drawing a line across his throat. "The unemployed people
here, the ones with no money and nothing to eat, will do anything."

Security remained tight yesterday. Soldiers and police appeared to be guarding
every tree along the route to the Hotel Farah, popularly known as the Hotel
Safir and possibly targeted because it housed a night-club popular with many
prostitutes, where the king, Mohamed VI, was expected to visit during the day.

A team of French police forensic staff in orange boiler suits picked carefully
through the debris around the hotel entrance and foyer yesterday.

Mohammed Darif, a professor of political science at Mohamedia University, said
that armed Salafism had arrived via Moroccans who had fought for al-Qaida in
Afghanistan.

Mr Darif said that King Mohammed faced a dilemma: there was pressure for a
crackdown, and also pressure to legalise more Islamic groups. In the palace in
the capital Rabat, an influential royal adviser, Andre Azoulay, claimed the king
was building a form of democracy suitable for a Muslim country.

"We've done our best to build a democracy. Our vision is fought by those who
want to bring the ideology of hate, and use God as a reason to kill," he said.

There was much confusion yesterday. Among obscure groups named as possible
perpetrators were Salafia Jihadia and Attafkir wal Hajira. What nobody doubted
was which global group was, ultimately, behind the coordinated attacks. "They
have the signature of al-Qaida," said Mr Darif.


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 19, 2003

Terror attacks: Comment

BYLINE: Aboubakr Jamai

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 361 words


For the first time, the reality of terrorism is palpable. Photographs in the
local press have excited fear and indigation. Moroccans will never look at TV
images of victims of terrorism in other countries in the same way.

The bombers, notably, were all Moroccan. That came as a real slap in the face.
It is our society that is responsible, at least in part, for creating this
atrocity. Even if the radicals are undoubtedly at the margins of society, they
are symptomatic.

Moroccan society is undergoing subtle changes. Today, the question of how
profoundly we need to reform is still open. Elections last September - more
transparent than before, and thus less unanimous - failed to resolve the major
problem: the lack of clear divisions of power, in the absence of a constitution,
and, its corollary, the absolute character of the monarchy.

In the past, these were portrayed by the regime as guarantees of stability.
Today, it must be admitted their secondary effects are a prime cause of
instability. The absence of checks and balances has given rise to aggressive,
predatory behaviour in the economic sphere, which in turn results in social
injustice.

In particular, the lack of willingness to liberalise the media has prevented
Moroccan society from using the most powerful media outlets as forums for
debate.

This problem is of the highest importance. Our society is a living example of
pluralism and dynamism. Associations for women's rights and human rights have
done extraordinary work. Their actions have brought about the start of a genuine
dialogue with Islamist circles. As a result, society is for the most part
anti-extremist. But unfortunately, these views are not conveyed to to the
majority of citizens thanks to the growing restrictions on freedom of expression
in the state-controlled media.

If September 11 forced the western world to find a new balance between security
and freedom, imagine the complexity of that same dilemma in a country such as
Morocco. There is, however, only one route: democratisation as the product of
social equity. Aboubakr Jamai is editor of the weekly Moroccan newspaper Le
Journal


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 19, 2003

Terror attacks: Al-Qaida is back and stronger than ever: Security agencies say
latest attacks show new level of planning and recruitment

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1315 words


Security and intelligence agencies believe al-Qaida has managed to reorganise
its network to become a more potent, although more dispersed force. In the past
week, and for the first time since September 11, Osama bin Laden's network used
dozens of suicide bombers against soft targets of civilians in restaurants and
residential areas.

Despite thousands of arrests around the world, and the capture or death of
various senior al-Qaida figures, lower-level operatives are filling the gaps, US
politicians said yesterday.

According to Senate intelligence committee chairman Pat Roberts,"third- and
fourth-level terrorists" are conducting operations that have been in preparation
for months or even years.

"We do know that there probably were attacks that were planned for years, that
are kind of in the pipeline. That may be what we're seeing - that they have
regrouped to a certain extent, and this new leadership that's come in is giving
the orders to carry out these new attacks that had been planned before," said
Senator Saxby Chambliss on NBC television.

While the Bush administration - and British ministers - trumpeted the collapse
of al-Qaida's base in Afghanistan and the arrest of some leaders, intelligence
agencies have been far more sceptical.

Measures by some countries, notably in western Europe, mean that al-Qaida
inspired and funded groups and individuals are deterred from prestige targets
such as American bases and official buildings of western or pro-western
governments.

That encouraged a shift in tactics to soft targets. Bali, Casablanca and Riyadh,
the Saudi capital, are vivid examples.

Jonathan Stevenson, author of the International Institute for Strategic Studies'
annual strategic survey published last week, described Riyadh as the first
indication that the regime change in Iraq - in the short term - is going to
cause a backlash and be an inspiration for terrorists. Although the audacity and
power of the American-led invasion could have a "suppressive effect" on
terrorists, it was equally likely the conflict had increased al-Qaida's
recruiting power, he said.

A fresh warning by Germany's BND, the equivalent of Britain's MI5, emphasised
the point. According to German newspaper reports over the weekend, the agency
says the al-Qaida network's support and potential for recruitment remains intact
in Saudi Arabia, Yemen, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait. The network's
morale had been boosted by the suicide bombings in Riyadh and by America's
decision to withdraw most US troops from Saudi Arabia and send home
non-essential embassy staff and dependants.

Earlier this month, President George Bush said that "half of all the top
al-Qaida operatives are either jailed or dead. In either case, they're not a
problem anymore."

But according to Israeli counterterrorism specialist Boaz Ganor, US intelligence
agencies have probably learnt all they can from al-Qaida suspects already in
custody, while recruits will develop plans of their own.

"If you don't have new intelligence resources and new people to interrogate,
then you find yourself confronting new planners and new initiatives that you
don't know anything about," he said.

The theory of intensifying al-Qaida activity is also reinforced by senior
American counterterrorism officials who were reported this weekend as saying
that leaders of the terror group had reorganised bases of operations in at least
a half-dozen locations, including Kenya, Sudan, Pakistan and Chechnya.

The leaders had begun to recruit members, train them, and plan attacks on
western targets in earnest, the New York Times reported. It cited as evidence
secret arrests in the US in the last two months of two Arab men suspected of
having been sent by the al-Qaida leadership to scout targets for terror attacks.

The newspaper said US officials would not identify the two men, who were
described as conducting "presurveillance" activities. They were part of a larger
group of about six al-Qaida followers arrested in recent months whose presence
in the US had led the authorities to conclude that the terrorist network
remained determined to carry out attacks on US soil.

Reflecting this concern the Foreign Office warned last week of a clear terrorist
threat in Kenya, but also in Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Somalia, Tanzania and
Uganda. The American counterterrorism officials also said al-Qaida was trying to
develop explosives that were harder to detect, to be placed in shoes or luggage,
and would be used to blow up a passenger aircraft.

Meanwhile signals to al-Qaida supporters seem to be appearing at a steady rate.
Messages may be sent to al-Qaida networks or sympathisers in different ways. In
a tape issued three months ago, at a time when the US was concentrating on Iraq,
a voice widely agreed to be that of Osama bin Laden described Morocco and Saudi
Arabia, as well as Pakistan, Nigeria, Jordan, and Yemen, as targets for
"martyrdom operations".

New threats

Last month, Mohammed al-Ablaj, who described himself as a commander of a
"mojahedin training centre" for al-Qaida, announced that it was preparing "an
intensive strategic course to make America pay for its invasion of Iraq" and hit
"other targets soon and often".

It was reported yesterday that al-Ablaj has sent an email to al-Majalla, a
Saudi-owned London-based magazine, warning of "new and more severe strikes which
will surprise the Americans and Israelis alike". In another email, Thabet ibn
Qais has described himself as a new spokesman for al-Qaida and said the network
had "carried out changes in its leadership".

But European security and intelligence sources say it would be a mistake to
regard al-Qaida as a centralised, disciplined organisation along the lines of
groups such as the IRA.

Thus the Bali bombing was carried out by Jemaah Islamiya. In Morocco, extremist
groups with links to al-Qaida include Salafia Jihadia and Attakfir wal Hijra.
There are hosts of other groups with links to what is seen as a burgeoning
al-Qaida movement, ranging from Morocco to Malaysia and the Philippines.

The strategic studies institute describes al-Qaida as a "potent transnational
terrorist organisation that could take a generation to dismantle", adding that
"thanks to technology and the multinational allure of jihadism, the Afghanistan
camps were (now) unnecessary". The only infrastructure al-Qaida required was
safe houses to assemble bombs.

"Otherwise, notebook computers, encryption, the internet, multiple passports and
the ease of global transportation enabled al-Qaida to function as a 'virtual'
entity that leveraged local assets - hence local knowledge - to full advantage
in coordinating attacks in many 'fields of jihad'," says the institute.

Al-Qaida has no state to defend, allowing it to maintain "a flat, transnational,
and clandestine organisational scheme". Its leadership - and the term itself may
be a misnomer - thus leaves actual terrorist attacks to "local foot-soldiers",
as happened in the Bali bombings and others since, including those in
Casablanca.

Timeline

Latest al-Qaida attacks

April 11 2002 Synagogue truck bombing, Djerba, Tunisia. 19 killed

May 8 Suicide bomber kills 14 in Karachi, Pakistan

June 14 Car bomb at US consulate in Karachi kills 12

Oct 6 Suicide bomber in boat rams French supertanker off Yemen, killing a
crewman

Oct 8 Gunmen kill US marine on Faylaka island, Kuwait

Oct 12 Suicide bomber destroys bar and nightclub at Kuta beach, Bali, killing
202

Oct 28 Gunmen kill US diplomat in Amman, Jordan

Nov 28 Suicide bombers hit Mombasa hotel killing 14. Two missiles narrowly miss
Israeli holiday jet

May 12 2003 34 die as suicide bombers attack westerners' compound in Riyadh

May 16 Attacks by 14 suicide bombers kill at least 41, including 13 bombers, and
wound 100


LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 19, 2003, Monday

TERROR ATTACKS: ISRAEL - SHARON CANCELS ROAD-MAP' TALKS WITH BUSH AFTER BOMB

BYLINE: ERIC SILVER IN JERUSALEM An Israeli bomb-disposal expert checks a bag
shortly after a suicide bomber blew up a bus Brian Hendler

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 569 words


AFTER A Palestinian suicide bomber killed seven passengers on a Jerusalem bus
yesterday, Ariel Sharon, Israel's Prime Minister, postponed a visit to
Washington for talks with President George Bush.

They were to have discussed the "road-map", which is aimed at establishing a
Palestinian state by 2005. Mr Bush was expected to urge Israel to drop its
reservations about the three-phase peace plan and start implementing it
immediately.

Five hours before the bombing, Mr Sharon had held a three-hour maiden summit
with his Palestinian counterpart, Mahmoud Abbas. Although it produced no
tangible results, an Israeli spokesman said: "I wouldn't call it a failure. I'd
call it a difficult start. We haven't given up on the newly formed Palestinian
government to do the right thing. And we're not standing with a stopwatch."

Despite the bombing, one of three which killed a total of nine Israelis in
Jerusalem and the West Bank town of Hebron over the weekend, Mr Sharon still
wants to negotiate with Mr Abbas, commonly known as Abu Mazen. But the chances
of peace look bleaker than ever.

Mr Sharon's spokesman, Raanan Gissin, said yesterday that Israel was imposing no
conditions for further talks. He said: "We're giving him the benefit of the
doubt to prove himself. There are no pre-conditions, only expectations."

Mr Sharon's hardline coalition partners and his settler constituency were less
generous. At an emergency cabinet meeting last night, some ministers were
expected to call for tougher retaliation, including the possible expulsion of
the Palestinian President, Yasser Arafat, and the families of suicide bombers.
Mr Gissin said: "Maybe we have to increase the price you have to pay for
terrorism."

Mr Abbas's administration condemned the bombings but insisted that all attacks -
on Palestinians as well as Israelis - must stop. It noted that three
Palestinians were killed and "scores" injured in the West Bank and Gaza on
Saturday; homes were burned and demolished in Hebron and a curfew was imposed on
Ramallah.

"This shows there is an

urgent need to go back to internationally supervised negotiations and for the
Israeli government to unconditionally accept the international road-map," the
Palestinians said.

A spokesman reiterated Mr Abbas's "willingness to take all necessary widespread
security measures". But a Hamas spokesman, Abdel Aziz Rantisi, hailed the
Jerusalem bus bombing as a sign that the "resistance" was still going strong.

Mr Gissin said Israel could not tolerate a "two-headed Palestinian government"
with one half taking orders from Mr Arafat and the other from Mr Abbas. He said:
"There has to be a surgical operation that would sever one element of that
government, which continues to support terrorist activity, from the part that
wants to steer a different course."

Israel wants Mr Abbas and his security chief, Mohammed Dahlan, to begin
disarming the radicals and curbing anti-Jewish incitement in the Palestinian
media, schools and mosques.

In return, Mr Sharon has proposed pulling Israeli troops out of northern Gaza
and, if Mr Dahlan delivers, withdrawing gradually from other areas.

But Hamas remains defiant. Mr Rantisi said: "The Palestinian Authority cannot
implement any security steps in the Gaza Strip because it will be seen as a
declaration of war against the Palestinian people, not the Palestinian
factions."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 19, 2003, Monday

TERROR ATTACKS: ALGERIA - TROOPS READY TO STORM KIDNAPPERS' HIDEOUT

BYLINE: JAMES PALMER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 407 words


ALGERIAN COMMANDOS were ready to storm a desert hideout of a group of Islamic
militants believed to be holding 15 European tourists last night, as
negotiations reportedly continued for their release.

Algeria's daily El Khabar newspaper quoted military sources as saying the armed
forces were on standby to attack caves in the Sahara if the Salafist Group for
Preaching and Combat - a group loosely linked to al- Qa'ida - turned down a
choice of unhindered passage out of Algeria or amnesty in return for the
hostages' release. The government did not comment on the report.

Last Thursday, 17 of a total of 32 European tourists who went missing in the
Sahara in February and March were released. The tourists were reportedly
kidnapped by the Salafist group.

On Saturday, one of the freed hostages, Harald Ickler, said the captors called
themselves mujahedin - a term for Islamic fighters - while insisting they were a
"completely independent group".

He said the kidnappers shot and wounded a female hostage during an escape
attempt at the start of the ordeal. Mr Ickler was captured along with five
fellow tourists on 21 March when their three-car convoy was ambushed by
terrorists wielding assault rifles. When the lead car tried to drive off, the
kidnappers fired at the tires, but a bullet also hit one of the passengers,
Michaela Joubert in the back, Mr Ickler said.

After the driver, Andreas Kiehlechner, gave up, one of the kidnappers attended
to Ms Joubert's wound. "They were very apologetic, but they said he shouldn't
have tried to flee," Mr Ickler said.

Weeks of hardship followed as the kidnappers forced the hostages on long desert
marches to evade the Algerian army as it closed in on their trail.

The militants are suspected of holding the remaining tourists in caves near
Illizi, a city 750 miles south of the capital, Algiers.

The 32 disappeared while travelling in different groups without guides in
off-road vehicles in southern Algeria. They were believed to have been heading
for an area known for its archaeological sites, where bandits are known to
operate.

Algeria's influential El Watan newspaper quoted security sources as saying the
kidnappings had been planned for more than a year. In the storming of the first
camp on Tuesday, seven rebels and a soldier were killed and some remaining
rebels were captured after escaping into the hills of Tamanrasset province, the
paper said.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 19, 2003, Monday

TERROR ATTACKS: MOROCCO - TERROR CELLS LAY DORMANT IN THE SHANTY TOWNS OF
CASABLANCA

BYLINE: ELIZABETH NASH IN CASABLANCA Relatives of Ben Ardi Elarbi, 49, a victim
of the attacks, mourning over his coffin at the family home in Casablanca, top;
relatives and friends carrying another coffin at Arrahma cemetery, left; and the
remains of the restaurant at the Spanish club, right AP; AFP; Reuters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 902 words


A CROWD OF lawyers wearing black courtroom gowns and white ruffs wailed verses
of mourning from the Koran yesterday as two fellow lawyers killed in Friday's
bomb blast at the Spanish social club in Casablanca were buried in the city's
white-walled cemetery.

The cream of Morocco's professional class wept openly and embraced as the rough
wooden coffins, draped in green and yellow flags, were laid to rest in the
fierce midday sunshine.

These victims of the chain of five deadly explosions that ripped through the
city were members of the prosperous middle classes, but several of their
assailants - 15 of whom immolated themselves in the multiple blasts - hailed
from Casablanca's poorest and most marginal shanty towns on the outskirts of the
city.

Scores of suspects were rounded up after the attacks, and at least eight of them
are from the sprawling industrial suburb of Sidi Moumen, the Justice Minister,
Mohamed Bouzoubaa, said when he left the funeral. The booming bidon-ville is a
magnet for young men who drift to the city from the countryside in search of
work and opportunities.

Sidi Moumen has become a virtual no-go area for police, and has thrown up a
number of semi-clandestine mosques. Observers have long suspected the
disaffected youngsters could be a breeding ground for fundamentalists.

Last night, police investigators had yet to reach the dusty streets behind Sidi
Moumen, which penetrate a warren of shanties. The homes are built of rubble and
corrugated iron but each is topped with a satellite dish. Amid the stench of
open sewers, hundreds of people teemed through the alleys, around the countless
repair shops and vegetable stalls. Women gathered water from the well in the
street, dodging mule-drawn carts and doing their shopping. The chief authority
in the area seems to be a huge mosque, with an ironmongery tucked away near its
entrance.

However, no one believes that the attacks that rippled across the city, on five
separate targets with such split-second timing, could have been the unaided work
of a handful of countryboys from Sidi Moumen. Five separate cells, each
comprising three people, are suspected of the attacks.

One local media commentator said: "We were expecting fundamentalists to gain
ground in elections, by legal means, but we couldn't have predicted this kind of
violence."

However, a senior Moroccan military source warned some 18 months ago that
Islamic radicals, who call themselves the Salafist Jihad, had links with Osama
bin Laden's al-Qa'ida movement, and said he had evidence that some had spent
time in training camps in Afghanistan and had set up dormant cells in Morocco.
Ten people were arrested in May last year, seven Moroccans and three Saudis, and
were tried in Morocco and sentenced to 10 years in jail in March. Police thought
they had foiled a terror campaign but now believe a network of dormant cells
remained intact.

Police, present in large numbers yesterday, cordoned off city streets as local
people continue to express their surprise at the complexity of Friday's terror
attacks.

The horror began at 9.45pm local time (10.45BST) when people were strolling in
the lively medina near the Jewish cemetery. Some thought the blast was a faulty
gas canister exploding, which often happens in the city. But an attack on the
cemetery produced a scene of bloody chaos. Neighbours brought out sheets,
tablecloths, anything to cover the remains of four victims.

The panic had already spread by the time the Casa de Espana restaurant was
attacked 15 minutes later. The barman saw three young men try to force their way
into the restaurant, which was popular among professionals and diplomats. The
porter, an elderly man known as "Haj", tried to block their way. They cut his
throat and left him dying. They entered the room, shouted Allahu Akbar and the
force of their self-destruction flung one of them into the courtyard of the
Spanish consulate next door. Fifteen people died.

Ten minutes later, the bustling Hotel Farah, formerly the Safir and popular
among visiting Israelis, was also hit. A security guard said: "We saw two men
with backpacks near by and asked them to move off. One took out a knife and
threatened us." They dropped the bag in the doorway and it went off, killing
more people and adding to the panic. The Israeli cultural circle - deserted on
the Jewish sabbath - was the next target, at 10.15pm. The duty guard was the
only victim. Widespread panic had by now gripped the city, even among police who
didn't know which way to turn.

Five minutes later, as the Casa de Espana and the Safir were being cordoned off,
a car bomb went off outside the busy Jewish-owned Positano restaurant, near the
Belgian consulate. The sturdy 4x4 vehicle outside was reduced to a mangled heap
of metal.

The five attacks within 35 minutes produced some 40 dead and 70 wounded.
Morocco's timid moves towards modernity and openness under the young King
Mohammed VI lie in shreds. The media had started to give space to Islamic
radicals, but are expected to be urged to rally behind the fight against
terrorists.

Earlier this year two Moroccan Islamists, Haasan Kitami and Abu Hafs, were
arrested. During his trial, Abu Hafs said Bin Laden was a hero and the United
States the devil. Morocco, one of the staunchest allies of the US, has been
shown to be a soft target in the Muslim world.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 19, 2003, Monday

TERROR ATTACKS: TOURISM - MOROCCO JOINS LIST OF COUNTRIES SEEING TOURIST NUMBERS
FALL

BYLINE: HARVEY MCGAVIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 428 words


THE TOURIST industry was last night counting the cost of al-Qa'ida's response to
the war in Iraq as Morocco joined the lengthening list of holiday destinations
targeted by terrorists.

The Moroccan economy, already reeling from the effects of the 11 September
attacks, has been dealt another blow by last week's terrorist attacks just as
the country was trying to re-establish itself as a choice destination for UK
travellers.

Tourism, which employs 600,000 people and is the country's second biggest source
of foreign currency, had been earmarked for huge development by the Moroccan
government. It was planning to boost foreign visitors to the country to 10
million by 2010 and invest more than $ 4bn (pounds 2.5bn) in five major coastal
developments. "Morocco's image as a rare haven of religious coexistence suffered
a great deal from these attacks," one senior economist in Casablanca said last
night.

The Association of British Travel Agents said yesterday that about 1,200 British
citizens who are holidaying in Kenya were being advised last night about travel
arrangements after the Foreign Office issued a warning against non-essential
travel to the country and five other east African states, and flights between
the UK and Kenya were suspended.

Tourists are still staying away from the island of Bali, where hotel occupancy
has slumped to 15 per cent in the wake of last October's attacks, which left 200
dead. Tourist authorities in the region are hoping the imminent trial of those
charged with the bombings will restore tourist confidence.

Morocco's combination of ancient culture, year-round sunshine and fine cuisine
attracts some 70,000 visitors from the UK each year. But the country's income
from tourism fell 19 per cent last year after the attacks on New York and
Washington in September 2001.

The German government warned its nationals yesterday against travel to Morocco
and other European tourists, who account for three-quarters of Morocco's tourist
income, were being advised to exercise extra caution if travelling there.

The Foreign Office was last night warning visitors to Morocco that there was a
"clear threat " from terrorism and advised them to "maintain a high level of
vigilance in public places such as hotels, restaurants and shopping malls".

Representatives of the Spanish business interests in the country, the second
largest foreign investors after France, were blunt in their assessment. "It's a
catastrophe," said Francisco Albert, chairman of the Spanish Chamber of Commerce
in Casablanca.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 19, 2003, Monday

TERROR ATTACKS: IRAQ - 1,700 CIVILIANS DIED AS US TOOK BAGHDAD'

BYLINE: ANDREW GUMBEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 347 words


A TALLY of Baghdad hospital records published yesterday suggested that at least
1,700 civilians died in the Iraqi capital during the US invasion and another
8,000 were injured. Several hundred other civilian deaths went undocumented
because of the chaos of the conflict and the destruction of some hospital
records. As many as 1,000 people are still missing, according to Islamic burial
societies and humanitarian groups.

The tally - much higher than US propaganda might have led the world to believe -
was compiled by the Los Angeles Times and based on a tour of hospitals in
Baghdad and its immediate suburbs. The paper relied on the meticulousness common
to all Iraqis and dating from Saddam Hussein's obsessively bureaucratic era.

Although doctors were prevented by the steady influx of casualties from filling
out death certificates in quadruplicate, they did their best to make some
written record, even if it was only a line or two scrawled on scrap paper.

"We were working day and night," Abbas Timimi, director of Abu Ghraib General
Hospital on the city's western outskirts, told the Los Angeles Times. "With so
many people so badly hurt, we were under pressure to treat patients instead of
filling out forms. But we'd always scribble something." The Los Angeles Times'
count is the first of what are expected to be several efforts to assess the
human damage of the war. Human Rights Watch has begun a tally of casualties but
is so far less than a week into its research.

The civilian casualty toll published by the Los Angeles Times is likely to stir
further anti-American sentiment in Baghdad where widespread looting and chaos
still persists more than a month after the fall of Saddam.

There was further disappointment over the weekend when it emerged that the US
and Britain had decided to put off plans for an interim Iraqi government because
of the security situation. This had been planned for the end of this month and
the postponement is likely to bolster the perception that the foreign presence
represents a de facto colonial takeover.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 19, 2003, Monday

TERROR ATTACK: SAUDIA ARABIA - POLICE ARREST FOUR MEN SUSPECTED OF HELPING WITH
BOMB ATTACKS

BYLINE: ANDREW GUMBEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 376 words


SAUDI ARABIA said yesterday it had arrested four men suspected of helping to
carry out last week's co-ordinated bombings of residential compounds in Riyadh
and was seeking at least five more people believed to have organised the attacks
on behalf of al-Qa'ida.

The kingdom's Interior Minister, Prince Nayef, conceded that the four men - who
were not named - played only a secondary role, and that the chief organisers
were still on the loose, either in Saudi Arabia or abroad.

He also confirmed that the Riyadh plot was linked to the discovery earlier this
month of an arms cache believed to have been assembled by al-Qa'ida to attack
the royal family and other targets in Saudi Arabia. As many as 19 people are
still being sought in connection with that investigation, including Khaled
Jehani, a Saudi citizen who Saudi and US officials believe was in charge of the
Riyadh operation.

After receiving a rare public dressing down from US diplomats and politicians
last week for their security failures, the Saudis now seem keen to give every
indication of their co- operation in the police investigation of the bombings,
which killed 34 people, including nine suspected suicide bombers.

At least 60 US investigators, including agents from the FBI and CIA, are in the
country to guide the Saudis. In Washington, officials are growing extremely
concerned that a resurgent al-Qa'ida may once again have the power to launch
devastating attacks on several continents. After last week's attacks on Riyadh
and Casablanca, strongly worded warnings suggest several countries in Asia and
Africa may be next.

US officials quoted in yesterday's Washington Post said Jehani was the main
Saudi link for al-Qa'ida's new military commander, an Egyptian called Saif Adel.
The officials also suggested that Adel was based in Iran - a potentially
explosive claim, since Iran is part of President George Bush's "axis of evil"
and has been discussed as a possible target for future US military action.

Along with Mr Adel, the officials said the Iranian presence included Abu
Mohammed Masri, al-Qa'ida's head of training; Saad bin Laden, son of Osama; and
Abu Musab Zarqawi, who is believed to have been hiding in Baghdad at some point
last year.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                  May 19, 2003

Macapagal orders attack on terror cells;

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 200 words


PHILIPPINE President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo ordered "selective aerial and
artillery attacks" on what she called "terrorist cells" at the weekend, hours
before she was to due leave for a state visit to the United States.

Without giving details of the operations, she said that the attacks were to
support an offensive against Islamist rebels on the main southern island of
Mindanao where at least 80 people have been killed in attacks since the
beginning of March.

"I authorise the Armed Forces of the Philippines to employ selective aerial and
artillery attacks to dislodge embedded terrorist cells that have attacked
hapless civilian communities and murdered scores of innocent Filipinos in
Mindanao, " she said in an address to the nation.

"We've decided to use extraordinary punitive forces not merely in view of
tactical necessity but to signify the determination of the government to bring
terrorists to justice."

The US has linked some Philippine rebels to the al-Qaida network and its forces
have been training Philippine troops in recent months.

During President Macapagal's week-long visit, she will seek further US aid in
the guise of the fight against terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2003

               Copyright 2003 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 20, 2003

Ambassador warns of big terror attack in Saudi or US

BYLINE: David Teather in New York

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 563 words


Saudi and US officials last night issued stark warnings that further potentially
devastating terrorist attacks on American soil and against western interests in
the Middle East were likely.

In an unusually frank exchange with foreign reporters, the Saudi ambassador to
Washington, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, said he feared another "big" attack was
imminent in either his country or the US. Prince Bandar immediately returned to
Riyadh after the series of bombs that tore through western housing complexes
last week killing 34 people, including eight Americans and one Briton.

"There is chatter, a high level of chatter regionally and in other international
spots" that something could happen, he said, referring to monitored
communications over the internet. "My gut feeling is that something big is going
to happen here or in America."

He said he believed there were around 50 extremist militants in Saudi Arabia.
"I'm confident we'll get them in the end. But the question is, will it be early
enough?"

At the same time, an FBI bulletin has been dispatched to local and state law
enforcement agencies in the US, telling them to be on high alert. The bulletin
leaked to the Associated Press said: "The US intelligence community assesses
that attacks against the US and western targets overseas are likely: attacks in
the US cannot be ruled out."

Both make reference to the recovering strength of al-Qaida, the terrorist
network run by Osama bin Laden, believed to be behind the September 11 attacks.
Saudi investigators suggest that al-Qaida had become riven by infighting but has
now put aside internal differences to regroup.

The Egyptian militant Saif al-Adel, believed to be al-Qaida's new military
chief, is thought by the Saudis to have masterminded the recent attacks.

Prince Bandar said he believed that the suicide bombers in Riyadh had been
planning more but could have been forced to act precipitately after Saudi
investigators discovered a cache of weapons and explosives this month at a safe
house close to one of the western housing compounds.

"That would have taken out two blocks in the city if it had gone off
accidentally," Prince Bandar said. "We're all wondering if it's the last (of the
explosives) or is it the tip of the iceberg?"

The FBI has sent 60 people to assist the Saudi authorities in the investigation.
Al-Qaida is also thought to have been behind the bomb attacks at the end of last
week in Casablanca, Morocco, that killed 41 people.

The Moroccan police arrested a chemistry graduate yesterday after finding a
suspected suicide bomber's lair in Casablanca; the Saudi authorities also
detained a gunman outside the US consulate in Dharan.

According to the FBI bulletin, the blasts in Riyadh "indicate that the al-Qaida
network remains active and highly capable". The attacks, it adds, bear the
"traditional hallmarks" of the terrorist network such as precise planning,
surveillance and coordination among several units.

President Bush insisted that his anti-terror campaign was on track. "I always
said this was going to be a long war," he told a news conference.

But the state department's director of policy planning, Richard Haass, warned
that there was no end in sight to the conflict. "This is a war that is not going
to have any end for the foreseeable future."

Postwar world, page 19


LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 20, 2003

Saudi envoy predicts more terror attacks

BYLINE: Vicky Collins

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 468 words


SAUDI Arabia's ambassador to America said last night he feared a major terrorist
attack in the United States or Saudi Arabia may be imminent.

Prince Bandar bin Sultan said the suicide attacks in Riyadh last week may have
been just been the tip of the iceberg. "I think they were looking to do
something more major than this."

He was speaking after returning to Saudi from Washington in the wake of the May
12 suicide bombings in Riyadh that killed 34 people, including eight Americans
and two Britons. It was the first time civilians had been targeted
indiscriminately in the kingdom, the birthplace of al Qaeda's leader, Osama bin
Laden.

The indications that further attacks were in the pipeline came from a "high
level of electronic chatter", both within the kingdom and internationally, the
ambassador said.

All monitored chatter had suddenly stopped two or three days ahead of the Riyadh
attacks, which Prince Bandar said may have been orchestrated by Saif al Adel,
the Egyptian thought to be al Qaeda's new military commander.

He added: "My gut feeling tells me that something big is going to happen here or
in America. I'm confident we'll get them in the end. But the question is, will
it be early enough or not?"

The Saudi ambassador's comments came after the FBI issued a bulletin to law
enforcement agencies across the US that pointed to the recent bombings overseas
as evidence that al Qaeda remained active and said future attacks in America
were "likely".

The ambassador said Saudi intelligence had obtained information in recent months
that al Qaeda had been wracked by internal divisions.

The leaders of the terrorist network were thought to be so divided they did not
want to risk carrying out any attacks in Saudi Arabia in order to maintain their
intellectual base within the Gulf kingdom. "They have mended their differences
and decided to come out," Prince Bandar said.

He said 830lb of explosives had been discovered at a safe house raided near one
of the compounds earlier this month. The interior ministry had announced it was
hunting 19 men in connection with the weapons cache. "That would have taken out
two blocks in the city if it had gone off accidentally. We're all wondering if
it's the last (of the explosives) or is it the tip of the iceberg?"

He said he believed there were around 50 hardcore militants in Saudi Arabia. US
officials in Riyadh said al Qaeda had a much wider network of agents operating
in the kingdom than initially thought.

George W Bush said al Qaeda was still "plotting to kill" and Americans should be
on the alert following the attacks in Saudi Arabia. "I always said this was
going to be a long war," the US president added.

Saudi authorities detained a gunman at the US consulate in the city of Dhahran.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        May 20, 2003, Tuesday Edition 1

Police put on terror attack alert

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 757 words


   The North-East has gone on terror alert as police stepped up security
measures in the wake of the suicide bombings in Saudi Arabia and Morocco.

Armed officers patrolled roadblocks across Tyne and Wear and Northumberland
yesterday as the force stepped up its counter-terrorism operations.

Northumbria Police's Deputy Chief Constable Michael Craik said the roadside
checks had been set-up "as a response to intelligence received" following the
atrocities.

Although no specific warning has been received, Mr Craik said the change in
tactics would be a "disruption, a deterrent to those who would engage in
terrorist activity as well a reassurance the public".

The spot-checks will continue for a number of weeks.

The threat level in the Northumbria Police area has been unchanged since
September 11, 2001, but Mr Craik said: "We have used similar tactics before. It
is a recognised tactic and used routinely in London as a terrorist disruption
tactic and although I can't go into the details about the intelligence we
received I felt the action was appropriate."

He added: "It is a stop and search policy and we have been at locations like the
Tyne Tunnel and the MetroCentre.

"The armed officers are there to protect our officers and members of the
public."

Mr Craik said a quantity of drugs had been discovered in the first car stopped
in yesterday's exercise, but apart from that nothing suspicious had been
recovered.

Forces in County Durham, Cleveland and Cumbria said they regularly carried out
similar operations, but had no immediate plans to scale up their security
measures.

Northumbria Police was at pains to point out that no specific threat had been
received and that the operations were not directed at any particular sector of
terrorism. A force spokeswoman said: "This is a recognised police
counter-terrorist tactic and is not a response to a specific threat nor is it
directed at any particular sector of terrorism.

"Such checks are just one of a range of options open to police to combat all
types of terrorism and Northumbria Police has conducted this kind of operation
on a number of occasions in the past.

"We apologise for the delay and inconvenience which the checks will cause for a
number of motorists but believe they will also reassure the public that
Northumbria Police maintains constant vigilance against terrorism."

Hate cleric singled out

Radical cleric Abu Hamza is a "focal point" for Islamic extremists in the UK,
the Government claimed yesterday.

Wyn Williams QC singled out the one-eyed cleric as he represented Home Secretary
David Blunkett at an appeal by three foreign terrorist suspects who are
challenging being held without charge or trial.

They were arrested under the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 which
was introduced by Mr Blunkett after the September 11 attacks.

Mr Williams said that Abu Hamza, along with the 15 men who were arrested under
the new law, helped support Islamic extremism.

Thirteen of 15 men remain in custody. The three-man panel, headed by Mr Justice
Ouseley, is to hear the appeals of 10 men.

The hearing was adjourned until today.

Palestinian bombers strike for fifth time in two days

In the fifth suicide bombing in less than 48 hours, a Palestinian teenager
detonated explosives at the entrance to a crowded Israeli shopping mall
yesterday, killing at least three shoppers and wounding 47.

The bomber claimed to be 19-year-old woman died instantly and 13 of the wounded
were in serious condition in the attempt by Islamic militants to blast the peace
road map to smithereens.

The groups Islamic Jihad and Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades both claimed
responsibility for the attack at the Shaarei Amakim mall in the northern town of
Afula.

The previous four were carried out by teenagers with the Islamic militant group
Hamas.

The spate of bombings underscored how difficult it will be to carry out the US
backed road map plan, a three-stage prescription for ending violence immediately
and setting up a Palestinian state by 2005.

The Palestinian Authority condemned the bombing. "We reject this because they
harm us politically and morally and don't represent the Palestinian position,"
said one minister.

The Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades said it had video footage of the bomber, whom it
identified as Heba Daraghmeh, 19, from the West Bank village of Tubas.

Earlier in the day, a 19-year-old Palestinian riding a bicycle detonated a
66-pound bomb near an army jeep in the Gaza Strip, injuring three Israeli
soldiers.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 20, 2003, Tuesday

GIANT THUG IN GOUGE ATTACK;
 TERROR AS NUT TRIES TO BLIND HOLS WOMEN EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: DAMIEN LANE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 383 words


POLICE were last night hunting a 6ft 5ins giant who tried to gouge out the eyes
of two Welsh women tourists.

The crazed man attacked the women from Cardiff after stalking them from a bar
where they were enjoying drinks with their husbands.

The victims - aged 64 and 48 - were set upon as they strolled back to their
hotel on a weekend break in Dublin.

The attacker - described by Irish police as a "bald giant" - had stared at his
victims all evening in the bar as they had a quiet drink on the last night of
their break.

They became nervous and left the bar to walk home after finishing their drinks.

But as they left the brute came up from behind and floored one of the women with
a single punch.

To the horror of the woman and her friends he then began tearing at her eyes
with his fingers. When one of the husbands tried to drag him off he lunged at
the other screaming woman and plunged his fingers into her eyes.

As the women lay sobbing on the ground he rained kicks and punches on them.

Their frantic husbands tried to wrestle him to the ground but he was too big and
fought off both of them.

The thug - dressed in a black leather jacket and boots - kicked both the women
again and then ran off.

The shocked women received severe facial injuries and were taken to St James"
Hospital in the city.

Their condition was described last night as comfortable and their husbands were
by their bedsides.

The attack happened on Sunday night at 10.50pm in one of Dublin's poshest
streets.

A police spokesman said: "This was a savage, unprovoked attack on two
defenceless women.

"The couples were drinking in a bar when they noticed a guy on his own who was
acting strangely.

"He was watching them, staring at them as he drank a pint.

"They decided to finish their drinks and leave.

"As they were heading back to their hotel, they looked behind and saw he was
following them.

""They panicked and started to walk faster.

"The attacker grabbed one of the women and began gouging at her eyes with his
fingers."

"The attacker - who was 6ft 5ins tall - just started to lay into the women for
no reason."

The couples were due to fly back to Wales this morning.

A team of officers yesterday launched a major manhunt for the giant.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                  May 20, 2003

Egyptian minister says war triggered terror attacks;

SECTION:  Pg. 2

LENGTH: 110 words


EGYPTIAN Foreign Minister Ahmed Maher said yesterday that the US-led war on Iraq
has triggered a resurgence in terrorism, just as Egypt had predicted "We do note
that the situation following the war in Iraq has led to the resurgence of some
terrorist activities, " Mr Maher tsaid.

Suicide bombings have killed scores and wreaked destruction in Saudi Arabia,
Morocco and Israel over the past week.

In a speech to soldiers in March, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak said that the
war would produce "one hundred new bin Ladens, " driving more Islamists to
anti-Western militancy.

"It is necessary for the world to co-operate, " Mr Maher said.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2003

               Copyright 2003 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            May 21, 2003, Wednesday

Terror attack fears force Britain and US to close Saudi embassies

BYLINE: By Robin Gedye Foreign Affairs Writer

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 510 words

BRITAIN and the United States are closing their embassies in Saudi Arabia from
today amid reports that further attacks under the direction of a new al-Qa'eda
military commander are imminent in the region.

A statement posted on US embassy and consulate websites yesterday said its
embassy in Riyadh and consulates in Jeddah and Dhahran would be closed until at
least Monday, "in response to information that some strikes may be imminent".
The Foreign Office said the British embassy in Riyadh would be closed because of
an "imminent" terrorist threat.

The German and Italian embassies in Riyadh are also to close their doors today.
The German foreign ministry said it would be closing its embassy in Riyadh and
mission in Jeddah until at least Friday, because of the security concerns. The
Italian embassy was stopping public access.

The FBI issued a bulletin yesterday saying that al-Qa'eda "remains active and
highly capable". Washington raised its terrorist alert status yesterday to
"high" from "elevated" because of the renewed risk of attack in the US.

The warnings came a day after Prince Bandar bin Sultan, Saudi Arabia's
ambassador to Washington, said the level of international terrorist "chatter"
gave reason to believe that a "much bigger operation" was being planned in Saudi
Arabia or America. He said the Riyadh bombings last week had been planned by
Saif al-Adel, a former colonel in the Egyptian army special forces, who
intelligence officials now believe has taken over command of al-Qa'eda's
international operations.

US counter-terrorism officials estimate there could be as many as five al-Qa'eda
cells in Saudi Arabia with up to 200 operatives plotting internal attacks.
Prince Bandar put the number of hard-core operatives slightly lower at 50
veterans of the Afghan conflict with up to 300 new recruits.

The bombings in the past two weeks in Riyadh, Pakistan and possibly Casablanca
have been ascribed by some analysts to a reorganisation of al-Qa'eda that took
place during the months of preparation for the war against Iraq. Crucial to this
was the appointment of Adel as al-Qa'eda's chief operations planner and
effective number three in the group's hierarchy to replace Khalid Sheikh
Mohammed, who was arrested in Pakistan last March.

Adel, 37, is accused by the US of helping to plan the 1998 bombings of the
American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania which killed 231 people. One of his
senior henchmen in those bombings is alleged to be Fazul Abdallah Mohammed,
whose appearance in Kenya last week started a terrorist alert.

He has been instrumental in the reorganisation forced on al-Qa'eda following the
destruction of its bases in Afghanistan.

Pat Roberts, the Senate's intelligence committee chairman, said "third- and
fourth-level terrorists" were carrying out operations.

America's biggest problem has been its failure to capture Osama bin Laden, Al
Zawahiri, his deputy, and Mullah Omar, the Taliban leader.

"As long as these figureheads are alive, recruits will flock to the cause," a
British official said.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       May 21, 2003, Wednesday Edition 1

America put on terror attack alert

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 291 words


   The Bush administration has raised the country's terror alert level to
orange, its second highest level, amid fears that a wave of terrorist attacks
overseas will spread to the United States.

The move will set in motion a series of security measures around the US
government. It also advises cities, states and businesses to take extra security
measures.

The alert was raised after top administration and counter-terrorism officials
reviewed intelligence reports suggesting domestic terrorist attacks were
possible.

The decision to raise the terror alert warning came after the homeland security
council met at the White House and presented President George Bush with the
recommendation for an increase.

The new level, orange, marks a high threat of terrorist attacks.

It is the second highest level on the five-colour scale.

Federal law-enforcement officials said that among the intelligence picked up
recently were two electronic transmissions that discussed the possibility of an
attack on New York, Washington, Boston and more broadly the US coastlines.

The officials said there were doubts about the credibility of the threats and
stressed that they were not the driving factors in the decision to raise the
threat level.

The last time the level of threat was raised was during the Iraq war. It went
down after most hostilities ended.

Meanwhile, the British embassy in the Saudi capital Riyadh was closing to the
public today because of what the Foreign Office described as an "imminent"
terrorist threat.

The British consulate in Jeddah and trade office in al Khobar were also closing.

It is expected the offices will reopen on May 24, although the situation will be
kept under review, the Foreign Office said.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                                  May 21, 2003

America On Alert Over Terrorist Attack Fear

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 96 words


The United States raised its terror alert level today amid fears of a wave of
terrorist attacks. The alert was raised after top administration and
counter-terrorism officials reviewed intelligence reports suggesting domestic
terrorist attacks were possible.

Federal law-enforcement officials recently picked up electronic transmissions
that discussed attacking New York, Washington, Boston and the US coastlines.

The British embassy in the Saudi capital Riyadh was closing to the public today
because of what the Foreign Office described as an "imminent" terrorist threat.


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2003 Herald Express (Torquay)

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Gwent

                                  May 21, 2003

Woman's terror fall after attack

LENGTH: 403 words

DATELINE: Gwent


A TERRIFIED woman fell more than 30 feet after climbing out of a window to
escape her violent boyfriend a court heard.

Donna Edwards 27 landed on concrete and broke her tibia and an ankle prosecutor
Robert Buckland told Cardiff crown court yesterday.

Paul Redman aged 28 of Greenhill Road Sebastopol was jailed for two years after
admitting inflicting grievous bodily harm. He also admitted careless driving and
was disqualified for six months.

Judge Roderick Denyer said: "It's pure chance that he's not facing a
manslaughter charge."

He told Redman: "This was a vicious beating up of a woman. She was so frightened
she launched herself out of a window. The public will be outraged if I didn't
send you to prison."

Mr Buckland said that on the morning of Saturday January 25 Redman drove
erratically in a car park at Blaenavon and became aggressive and shouted at
people ripped off his shirt and said: "Look I am massive."

Finally he collided with a car owned by Lee Phillips causing damage of £400.
When he went to the home of Miss Edwards at Gilchrist Walk nearby he was
bare-chested and angry and grabbed her by the jacket and pushed her against a
wall. He punched her and hit her and pushed her upstairs.

"He even smashed up the living-room and also pulled the mantelpiece from the
wall " he said.

Redman landed several punches to Miss Edwards'' head as she pleaded with him to
stop then kicked her in the stomach the prosecutor said.

She dialled 999 but could not leave her home because it was locked. As Redman
grabbed her by the hair she screamed for help. He took a vegetable knife and
held it in front of her stomach.

He kicked in the kitchen door and "in sheer desperation" she jumped through a
window falling 30 feet onto concrete. When the police arrived she was still
screaming the court heard.

She was taken to Abergavenny's Nevill Hall hospital and was not discharged until
February 3.

When interviewed by the police Redmansaid "no comment" to all the questions.  He
was said to have previous convictions for causing actual bodily harm criminal
damage and burglary.

Hywel Hughes representing Redman said the incident in the car park caused him to
"lose his sense of proportion".

He added: "When he arrived at the home of Miss Edwards he lost it completely.
"He is surprised at the level of his violence and he has little recollection of
the events."

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                  May 21, 2003

Pub attack terror

LENGTH: 34 words


A 31-YEAR-OLD man is still seriously ill in intensive care after being attacked.
The man from Ashton-under-Lyne was in the town's Old Fire Station pub when he
was involved in a row and assaulted.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                  May 21, 2003

Saudis foil new terror attack from air

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 624 words


PLANS for a September 11-style suicide terror attack were foiled by Saudi
Arabia, it emerged last night, as terror group Al-Qaida issued a chilling call
to its followers to attack Britons and Americans.


An audio tape, said to be of Osama bin Laden's top deputy Ayman al-Zawahri, was
played on Gulf satellite TV station al-Jazeera, urging Muslims to imitate the
September 11 strikes in New York and Washington.

US Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge said US intelligence believed Al-Qaida
was active worldwide which could mean attacks in the United States and late last
night a bomb rocked America's Yale University law school.

But although the FBI's terrorism task force was sent to the scene in New Haven,
Connecticut it was not clear that it was a terrorist act. No injuries were
reported and the blast apparently occurred in an empty classroom.

Britain, the US, Germany and Italy have all closed their diplomatic missions in
Saudi Arabia after intelligence chatter suggested another attack soon.

Saudi officials said three Moroccan Al-Qaida suspects, arrested in Jeddah
following last week's suicide bombings in the capital Riyadh, had been planning
to hijack a Sudan-

bound flight and crash the airliner into a Jeddah bank. The suspects were
clutching their last wills and testaments when seized.

A security analyst with close ties to the Saudi government said they were part
of a larger cell in the process of carrying out suicide attacks.

News of the suspects' plans came within hours of al-Jazeera broadcasting
al-Zawahri's taped appeal.

Consider your 19 brothers who attacked America in Washington and New

York with their planes as an example, he said.

Attack the missions of the United States, the UK, Australia and Norway and their
interests, companies and employees. Turn the ground beneath their feet into an
inferno and kick them out of your countries. Know that you are not alone in this
battle. Your mujahadeen brothers are following the enemies as well and are lying
in wait for them.

Analysts who have heard earlier recordings of the Egyptian militant said the
voice was similar to al-Zawahri's.

A US official said the recording appeared to be genuine.

The speaker also lashed out at Arab leaders who offered airports and facilities
for the Allied troops who deposed Saddam Hussein's regime in Iraq.

Kuwait, Egypt, Qatar, Bahrain, Yemen, Jordan and Saudi Arabia were singled out.

In the Saudi capital yesterday, highly visible security measures were put in
place. Police patrolled in camouflaged vehicles and set up concrete barriers in
front of hotels.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: We have received credible information that
further terrorist attacks against unspecified targets in Saudi Arabia are being
planned and may take place imminently.

America's terror alert was raised to its second highest level, amid fears that
the wave of terrorist attacks in Saudi, Morocco and Israel will spread to the
US. President George Bush yesterday pledged to press on with the war against
terrorism. He promised that America will not relent in the war against global
terror.

We will deny the terrorists the sanctuary and bases they need to plan and
strike, as we have done in the battle of Afghanistan, he told US Coast Guard
Academy graduates.

We will not permit terrorist organisations or states to blackmail the world with
weapons of mass destruction, as we have shown in the battle of Iraq.

But the speech on the banks of the Thames River in New London, Connecticut, was
markedly different from his address last year at West Point.

Then, he declared the US would make pre-emptive strikes against suspected
terrorists if necessary to deter attacks on Americans.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2003

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             May 22, 2003, Thursday

SAUDI BRACES ITSELF AGAINST TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 126 words


ARMED police patrolled the Saudi Arabian capital Riyadh yesterday and concrete
barriers were erected in front of major hotels, part of continually increasing
efforts to guard against terrorist attacks.

Crown Prince Abdullah said officials had no "accurate" information linking the
attackers to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terrorist network.

The International Schools Group announced yesterday it would close its ten
schools in Saudi Arabia for the rest of the term "in light of the continued
threats to the safety and security of expatriate students."

US, British, German and Italian diplomatic missions in Saudi Arabia were closed
for the rest of the week after indications that al-Qaida was plotting new
attacks on Western targets.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Century Newspapers Limited

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                  May 22, 2003

HIJACK TERROR ATTACK FOILED

BYLINE: by JON LOCKETT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 327 words


THREE terror suspects being quizzed in Saudi Arabia were planning a horrific
9/11-style jet attack.

The Moroccans plotted to hijack a civilian airliner and crash it into a bank in
the Red Sea city of Jeddah.

Last night a top Saudi security source said: "They were planning a suicide
hijack to attack Saudi landmarks."

The attack would have been a terrifying re-run of the September 11 attacks on
New York two years ago when more than 2,700 people died in a plot masterminded
by Osama bin Laden.

The al-Qaida chief is believed to be the warped brain behind the latest mass
murder plot.

The suspects were arrested at Jeddah's airport on Monday, the day before the
kingdom went on bomb alert.

It's not yet clear if the three are linked to last week's triple suicide
bombings on western targets in the Saudi capital Riyadh or the attacks in
Casablanca, Morocco on Friday which claimed a total of 75 lives.

The Saudi security expert explained: "There was confusion at passport clearance.
The three were behaving suspiciously.

"When asked if they were travelling together, one said 'no' and one said 'yes'."

Under questioning it emerged that the trio were planning to crash a plane into
the headquarters of the National Commercial Bank in Jeddah .

"They were thwarted by Saudi forces who had no help from outside, " the security
source added.

The FBI and CIA are helping Saudi Arabia investigate last week's bloody
bombings.

On Qatar's al Jazeera TV yesterday, bin Laden's top aide Ayman al-Zawahri urged
Muslims to intensify their holy war against Americans and Jews.

He told them: "The crusaders and the Jews only understand the language of
murder, bloodshed. . . and of the burning towers."

On Tuesday, the US, Britain and Germany shut their embassies in the kingdom in
response to warnings that more attacks were imminent.

Scotland Yard anti-terror experts are now advising Brits in Saudi on security
measures.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 Express Newspapers

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                  May 22, 2003

BUT FEAR OF ATTACK WAS 50 YEARS AGO; TERROR WARNING

BYLINE: By Adrian Lee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 628 words


JEWISH extremists planned an IRA-style terror campaign in Britain after the
second world war.

Labour Prime Minister Clement Attlee was tipped off by MI5 that Foreign
Secretary Ernest Bevin was a possible assassination target for Zionists
demanding a Jewish state in Palestine.

Secret files made public yesterday reveal that police also discovered a plan to
drop explosives on London from war-surplus aircraft.

Immediately after the war came a sharp rise in Jewish terrorism in Palestine -
then controlled by Britain - to put pressure on the Government for a Jewish
state.

One terrorist group, the Stern Gang, blew up the King David Hotel, the British
administrative centre in Jerusalem, killing around 80 people.

Another group, Irgun, hanged two British sergeants in revenge for the execution
of terrorists. In August 1946, MI5 director-general Percy Sillitoe warned Attlee
these groups could link up if 18 members of the Stern group were executed.

"Our Jerusalem representative has received information that Irgun and Stern
groups have decided to send 5 'cells' to London to work on IRA lines, " Sillitoe
noted.

One MI5 report said: "The Stern Group . . . may now number as many as 600
followers, most of whom are desperate men and women who count their own lives
cheap.

The 18 death sentences were commuted to life imprisonment but MI5 remained
concerned about Jewish activists in Paris.

According to MI5, they plotted an air raid on London, "in the course of which
leaflets were to be dropped in the name of the Stern Gang, together with high
explosive bombs."

French police foiled the "Rabbi Korff" plot, arresting 10 suspects.

The British Government ordered a security crackdown to prevent Jewish terrorists
entering Britain.

MI5 scrutinised all visa applications from Jews in the Middle East.

All Jews arriving in Britain from the region had to be reported to the Home
Office, MI5 and Special Branch. An index of terrorists was also drawn up and
police watched young Zionist extremists.

MI5 File 2

THE British scientist who betrayed atom bomb secrets to the Russians thought he
would be able to carry on working on the UK's nuclear programme even after
confessing his treachery, according to MI5 files.

Klaus Fuchs, who fled Germany in the 1930s and became a naturalised UK citizen,
is believed by historians to have been responsible for the single most
significant act of espionage in British history.

Fuchs was cleared to work on the Anglo-American Manhattan Project to build the
world's first nuclear weapon.

By late 1949, investigators believed he was the spy identified by US
cryptographers who had managed to crack the Soviets' top secret codes.

Fuchs, who eventually confessed he had been spying for the Russians since 1942,
was sentenced to 14 years for espionage and died in 1988.

MI5 File 3

AUTHOR Compton Mackenzie spent years pursuing a "vendetta" against the
intelligence services, according to secret MI5 files. Mackenzie was best known
for his comedies like Whisky Galore and his support for the Scottish nationalist
cause.

But files show he never forgave the intelligence services after he was
prosecuted for revealing details of his work as intelligence officer in the
First World War.

One chance for revenge came in 1942 when he joined Labour's Aneurin Bevan to try
to embarrass MI6 over the treatment of one of its agents, Thomas Wilson.

Mackenzie boasted they would "blow the roof off " the intelligence services.
But, according to reports by notorious MI5 agent Anthony Blunt - later revealed
as a Russian spy and stripped of his knighthood - it became clear Wilson had
been blurting out top secret information to various people, which soon found him
jailed.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 23, 2003, Friday

POLICE GO ON HIGH ALERT FOR TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: ALEXANDRA WILLIAMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 202 words

HIGHLIGHT: THREAT: Parliament


SECURITY in London is being stepped up following warnings of terror attacks
around the world.

The capital is on high alert with increased street patrols, and armed officers
guarding key locations.

And concrete blocks are being placed on roads around the Houses of Parliament to
block car bombs.

The move is part of measures by the Metropolitan Police.

A spokesman for Scotland Yard said: "We can confirm additional measures are
being put in place in Westminster as part of a continuing process to provide
increased security across London."

The spokesman stressed police had "no specific intelligence" to warrant
"specific warnings".

But he added: "The public will see a lot more police, not only at Heathrow and
Parliament but on the streets in general.

"The high visibility reassures the public and acts as a deterrent."

The US closed its embassy in Norway yesterday after the country was bizarrely
picked out as an al-Qaeda target together with the US, UK and Australia.

Norway, home to just 4.5 million, is the world's third largest oil exporter but
Norwegians puzzled by the threat suggested it was mistaken for neighbour
Denmark, part of the US-led coalition in Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 23, 2003, Friday

SORTED AND THE CITY: 20,182 CYBER-TERRORIST ATTACKS AROUND THE WORLD

BYLINE: ANDREW PENMAN, MICHAEL GREENWOOD, GUY DENNIS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 81 words


CYBER-TERRORISTS have launched a record number of attacks on business and
government computers. There were 20,182 attacks around the world in the first 20
days of May, breaking the previous monthly record of 19,658 attacks in January.

A quarter of all attacks were the work of political or religious hackers
protesting against Western policy in the Middle East. Systems in Britain, the
USA, Germany and Argentina were the main victims, said digital risk specialists
mi2g.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The Black Country

                                  May 23, 2003

Rapist jailed for terror attack on young mum

LENGTH: 149 words

DATELINE: The Black Country


A RUSSELL'S Hall rapist who was part of a gang that tortured and threatened a
young mum in a scrapyard caravan has been jailed for 12 years.

Evil Martyn Moore of Osprey Drive was one of five men who lured the woman from
her Brierley Hill home before subjecting her to a 'nightmare ordeal'.

Moore admitted false imprisonment and rape.

Prosecutor Denis Desmond told Wolverhampton Crown Court the woman who is in her
mid-20s was taken to the caravan and humiliated because she owed one of the men
£60.

Ansar Mahmood of Brettell Lane Brierley Hill was sentenced to eight years for
rape and three men from Lye Jamil Aslam (11 years)Badr Iqbal (11 years) and
Zafar Ali (three-and-a-half years) were also caged for for their part in the
cowardly crime. Sentencing Judge Desmond Perrett QC said the crimes were
extremely serious and only substantial sentences were justified.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Worcestershire

                                  May 23, 2003

Terror attacks fail to deter climbers

LENGTH: 254 words

DATELINE: Worcestershire


Four women from Hanley Swan are continuing with plans to climb a mountain in
Morocco despite last weekend's terrorist attacks in Casablanca.

Caroline Sutton Chrissie Bemand Hilary Fowler and Anna Streather are already in
training for the attempt on the 4 167-metre peak of Mount Toubkal at the end of
October.

Each needs to raise at least £1 000 in sponsorship for Acorns Hospice Trust. The
money will go to an appeal to build a new hospice in Worcester for
terminally-ill children.

Similar expeditions have been affected because of recent world events. However
Caroline the former proprietor of Hanley Swan Village Stores said the group
would have to wait and see what happened.

She said she had never done any- thing like it although the enormity of the
challenge was not something she had been dwelling on.

"We're busy training at the moment " she said. "There's a reasonably rigorous
training programme."

Anna deputy head at Upton CE Primary School said she became involved after a
playground conversation with Chrissie who has children at the school.

"The more she told me about it the more I thought 'what a wonderful idea' " she
said.

The school is supporting the women holding a fundraising non-school uniform day
today (Friday) and more events later in the term. Other events are scheduled
over the summer.

Mount Toubkal is the highest peak in the Atlas Mountain which run for 1 500
miles from Tunisia to Morocco.

Anyone wanting to sponsor the women should call 01684 311665.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 24, 2003, Saturday

WILD RESPONSE Despite Foreign Office warnings, British travellers are still
booking safaris in East Africa. In the belief that terrorist attack is least
likely in the bushveld, Brian Jackman heads for the most remote part of Tanzania
. . . and wallows in it

BYLINE: By BRIAN JACKMAN

SECTION: Pg. 07

LENGTH: 1581 words

In December, unseasonally heavy rains had swept across the Serengeti. At Ndutu,
10in had fallen in two weeks - the heaviest rainfall for 18 years. A fortnight
later, the plains were still green and alive with wildebeest, which had come
south to give birth; but now the dry-weather wind was blowing, the same wind
that once brought the dhow fleets of Arabia down to Mombasa, and the sun shone
from a cloudless sky as we drove towards the Gol Mountains.

Coveys of sand grouse poured overhead on their way to drink at Olduvai Gorge.
Their yellow throats were bright against the blue, and when we stopped for a
picnic breakfast between Ndutu and the hill called Lemuta, their guttural calls
came down to us. "Water, water," they seemed to be crying.

My safari had begun four days earlier at Gibb's Farm, a former German coffee
farm on the slopes of the Ngorongoro Crater Highlands. In 1948 it was sold to
James Gibb, a British war veteran who, with his wife, Margaret, converted it
into a guesthouse. James Gibb died in 1977 but Margaret still presides over what
has become one of Tanzania's best-loved tourist lodges.

From Gibb's Farm to the Serengeti is a good half-day's drive, and most people
break their journey with a visit to Ngorongoro Crater on the way. But I had time
to stop only briefly on the crater rim and look down into the lost world 2,000ft
below before moving on to Ndutu Lodge.

Surrounded by giant, flat-topped acacias, with Lake Ndutu glittering beyond,
Ndutu is the only lodge from which you can witness the spectacle of the
wildebeest migration in the calving season, and on a sunny day when the grass is
green there is nowhere else I would rather be.

The lodge itself had been refurbished since my previous visit. Gone is the sign
that once read "Please do not touch or feed the gents" (put up by someone who
couldn't spell genets). But the genets themselves - slender and feline with
spotted coats - still play hide-and-seek among the dining-room rafters.

I spent two days here and every game drive was a celebration of life in all its
diversity and abundance. Crowned plovers shrieked around our ears. We watched
serval cats hunting in Ndutu Marsh and flurries of egrets falling like
snowflakes across a multitude of zebras.

Out on the plains beyond the lodge, a lioness rose out of the land, her scarred
muzzle covered in flies. Wildebeest were all around her in a wide circle,
staring as if hypnotised by the predator in their midst. But she was not hungry
and when she walked unhurriedly towards them, they shrank aside to let her pass,
then closed behind her like a returning tide. But that was yesterday. Now,
having got the lions out of my system, we were moving on to a private campsite
on the other side of the Gol Mountains. Breakfast with the sand grouse was long
past and already the heat was causing the air to tremble, distorting the knots
of Grant's gazelles that watched us from the skyline.

No road lay before us; not even a tyre track. Compared to the Serengeti most
tourists see, we were heading into uncharted Africa; a boundless steppe in which
lonely granite inselbergs rise from the grass like castle ruins.

These inselbergs - kopjes - are the summits of ancient mountains, overwhelmed by
seas when the surrounding volcanoes were active three million years ago; but the
grasses that grow here are rich in the minerals that build young bones, and as
we crossed this empty country we came upon a zebra and its new-born foal.

Tenderly the mother licked the foal's wet coat as it tried to stand on spindly
legs. Nigel Perks, my guide, was ecstatic. "Zebras usually give birth at night,"
he said. "This is only the second time I've seen it."

Perks is an ebullient New Zealander who has become one of Tanzania's most
sought-after professional guides. "I've always been crazy about wildlife," he
told me. "As a child I used to go into travel agents' shops and steal their
safari brochures." In 1984, at the age of 21, he made his way to London and got
himself a job with an overland travel company, driving trucks from Cairo to the
Cape. "That's when I saw the Serengeti for the first time," he said. "I knew
that was where I had to be."

We moved on slowly among the sweeping cloud shadows in which solemn giraffe
stood out like markers, measuring the distance between us and the horizon. Here
the land has a rise and fall to it, like the immense rolling waves of an ocean,
and is so unbearably beautiful that I felt I could drive on for ever.

By midday we had reached the monumental fig known as the Tree where Man was
Born, which stands in a secret valley beyond Lemuta. At first sight it looks
like a forest grove but is a single tree, the only one for miles around, and it
dwarfed our Land-Rover when we parked in its shade.

Here we turned east, heading for Nasera, the giant, weather-stained monolith
that dominates the entrance to Ngata Kiti. Originally this broad valley that
runs through the Gol Mountains was part of the Serengeti national park, but it
was given back to the Masai in 1959. Soon afterwards the government strung a
fence across it to to keep out the wildebeest, but it might as well have tried
to hold back the sea. The migrating herds simply rolled it flat, to the delight
of Myles Turner, the great Serengeti warden, who used its smashed-down fence
posts to build his campfires.

Below us now lay the Salei plains, a vast emptiness of grass stretching for 25
miles from the foot of the Gol to Oldonyo Lengai, the holy mountain of the
Masai. Unlike the rest of the Crater Highlands, Lengai is still active; a
monstrous cone of boiling lava. Its furrowed flanks are stained white with ash,
and through my binoculars I could see plumes of smoke rising from the fumaroles
inside its crater rim.

Our camp, with its olive-green tents and bucket showers, had been set up in
advance at the entrance to the Ol Karien Gorge, a narrow cleft running deep into
the heart of the Gol Mountains. Of all the places I have camped in East Africa,
this was the wildest, the loneliest, the most remote.

That night, before falling asleep, I listened to the hacksaw cough of a leopard
echoing in the gorge. In the morning, when we set off to explore on foot in the
company of a ranger armed with an AK-47, we found the leopard's tracks at the
edge of a pool.

The Ol Karien Gorge is an extraordinary place. For the Masai it is a source of
ochre, which they grind into a paste to adorn their bodies and the stylish
coiffures of the il-morani (warriors). But it is also known for Ruppell's
griffon vultures that breed in their hundreds on its ledges.

The griffons share their guano-spattered crags with lammergeiers and black
eagles, with swarms of Nyanza swifts, and dainty klipspringers - small antelopes
that leap on tip-toe across the rocks. In some places this awesome canyon is
scarcely wider than a vulture's wingspan; and from dawn to dusk its dizzy walls
echo to the deep-throated chanting of speckled pigeons.

Next day we set out to look for cheetah. The Salei plains are classic cheetah
country; open grassland, gazelles galore and no lions to terrorise them. "The
Masai leave them pretty well alone," said Nigel.

Almost at once, as if to prove his point, we found a mother cheetah with five
small cubs lying at the edge of the Ol Karien sand river. Her belly was full.
Even though we had left camp early, she had already killed and eaten. Now she
and her cubs were resting.

By mid-morning we had reached the epicentre of the plains. Here the land had
dried out completely, its sun-scorched grass reduced to stubble. The air
dissolved in the quivering heat, creating cruel mirages of blue lakes across
which floated a ghostly procession of migrating wildebeest; and all around rose
the volcanic summits that mark the boundaries of these timeless grasslands.

We surprised a pair of golden jackals that moved off at such a light trot that
their feet hardly seemed to touch the ground; and a fringe-eared oryx, a
solitary bull with magnificent horns, which cantered away at our approach.

Perks has coined a new term for clients who love to stand and look out of the
roof hatch while he is driving. "Rommeling," he calls it, after Erwin Rommel,
the German general who fought Montgomery's Eighth Army in North Africa. So
Rommeling back to camp we went as the light turned to gold at the end of the
day.

We crossed the dry bed of the Sanjan River. Here the plains were still lush and
green, and thousands of white storks - winter migrants from Spain and Portugal -
were feeding in the grass. Masai herdsmen strode among them; Biblical figures in
blood-red robes, guarding their flocks of sheep; but these were not the Masai
who dress up and dance at tourist lodges. The Masai of the Salei plains are
real. For them, God still sits on the top of Lengai, and those who live in its
shadow remain true to their old ways as if the modern world had never arrived.

Brian Jackman's mobile camping safari with Gibb's Farm Safaris was arranged by
Cazenove & Loyd (020 7384 2332, www.caz-loyd.com). Prices for an eight-night
safari (one night at Gibb's Farm, four nights at Ndutu and three at Ol Karien),
including British Airways flight to Nairobi and onwards flights to Manyara with
Air Kenya and Regional Air, start from pounds 3,916 per person.

The accepted wisdom says April-May is the wettest time in the southern
Serengeti. But over the past 15 years February has been the rainiest month at
Ndutu.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                  May 24, 2003

Terror attack with glass in mugging

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 164 words


A THUG held a smashed pint glass at the throat of a man in a street robbery.

The 59-year-old victim - who is not being named - was walking past St Bede's
Church in Salisbury Road, Maltby when the attacker struck.

He grabbed the terrified man and held the broken glass against his throat while
he went through his pockets.

The thug took a purse and ran off, leaving the man extremely shocked.

The attack happened a week ago but detectives have only just released details in
an effort to trace anyone who saw what happened and can help them catch the
attacker.

The victim was walking towards Braithwell Road at about 11.45pm on May 16 when
he was suddenly grabbed by a man with a glass in his hand, said a police
spokesman.

The attacker held the broken glass at the throat of the man and at the same time
starting searching him. He eventually made off with a purse containing money.

The attacker was white, about 6ft tall and spoke with a gruff local accent.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 25, 2003

EMBASSY REOPENS AFTER TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 143 words


THE British Embassy in Saudi Arabia reopened yesterday after security warnings
and bomb attacks on Westerners in the capital Riyadh forced it to close.

"We reviewed the security situation and we have resumed full operations, " a
British diplomat said.

The embassy, and consulates in Jeddah and in Dhahran shut down last Wednesday,
along with those of the US, Germany and Italy following warnings of "imminent"
terror attacks.

The closures came after 34 people, including eight Americans, two Britons and
nine suicide attackers, died and nearly 200 were injured in the attacks at
Western housing compounds.

Armed security has been set up at major landmarks and outside many Western
compounds.

Saudi officials have detained about 100 people following the attacks. Four men
held are allegedly tied to Osama bin Laden's Al Qaeda group.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                  May 26, 2003

Schoolgirl in 'terror' attack

LENGTH: 137 words


A SCHOOLGIRL was dragged along the ground by a car after she met up with a man
to swap mobile phones a court was told.

Burnley Crown Court heard the 15-year-old was scraped along the floor in a
"terrifying" attack before the car reversed and knocked her over again.

Defendant Robert Early then sent the victim intimidating and abusive messages on
her voice mail when he knew she was going to give evidence the jury was told.

Early 26 escaped a custodial sentence after a judge said he was prepared to give
him a chance to show the offences were an "isolated aberration". He was of good
character had pleaded guilty at the first opportunity and had expressed remorse.

Early of Blackburn Road Darwen admitted common assault and witness intimidation
and was given 180 hours community punishment.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 27, 2003, Tuesday

LETTER: TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: BERNARD JENKIN MP

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 216 words


Sir: Your front page article, "Another day, another outrage" (19 May) is
dangerously misleading. It suggests that the terrorist attacks in Chechnya,
Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Pakistan and Morocco were all part of an international
plan designed by one man or one organisation. Early in the article, its authors
suggest that all these attacks were the work of al-Qa'ida despite George Bush's
claims that "about half the top al- Qa'ida operatives are either jailed or
dead".

There is little doubt that at least two attacks were linked and have the
hallmarks of al-Qa'ida. However, al-Qa'ida's last "spectacular" attack was over
six months ago and, until this month, Islamic fundamentalist terrorism was at
its lowest level since 1969. Also, while any loss of life by terrorism is
appalling, none of these recent attacks had the potential for mass casualties as
did September 11, Bali or Mombasa.

Al-Qa'ida is certainly not finished. But the operations of intelligence agencies
across the world, as well as the toppling of Saddam Hussein have been rewarded
by less frequent and less lethal attacks.

Bin Laden's group has had a series of reverses. To exaggerate their abilities
now can only help them.

BERNARD JENKIN MP

Shadow Secretary of State for Defence

House of Commons

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Burton Mail

                             May 28, 2003 Wednesday

Police 'ready for terrorist attacks'

BYLINE: MARC BRYANT

LENGTH: 274 words


BURTON and South Derbyshire's police forces say they are ready for potential
terrorist attacks amid fresh Government warnings of possible strikes.

Police authority chairman David Allen says South Derbyshire officers are "aware
of the threat" and remain "vigilant at all times" in a period of "increased
tension". The mood is being echoed in Staffordshire, where the county force says
it is working in partnership with other services to prepare for any attacks.
Members of the public have also been told to be on their guard after the
Government warned that a six-strong al-Qaeda terrorist cell was active in
Britain. Security measures at East Midlands Airport and other UK airports have
been on a high state of alert since the September 11 terrorist attacks in
America and the Afghan and Iraq military conflicts. County councils in
Derbyshire and Staffordshire have already drawn up contingency plan, to be led
by the police, in the event of a terrorist attack. A spokesman for Staffordshire
police said: "We keep our contingency plans for a variety of scenarios under
constant review and we have detailed plans in place to deal with a range of
potential threats. "The plans are well prepared, regularly tested and reviewed
as circumstances change. For obvious reasons we cannot discuss the plans in
detail but, with emergency service partners other agencies throughout
Staffordshire and the community as a whole, we always maintain a high level of
vigilance and readiness." Councillor Allen says in a report to go before
Derbyshire Police Authority members next week that the county has officers
specially trained  in counter-terrorist techniques.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                    Copyright 2003 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                  May 29, 2003

Police hunt after terror sex attack on girl, 14

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 177 words


POLICE are hunting a man after a sex attack on a 14-year-old girl.

The youngster was indecently assaulted as she was walking home through a park in
Kilmarnock, Ayrshire.

She was grabbed from behind and held but fled after a brief struggle.

Detectives are appealing for witnesses to the attack at Scott Ellis Play-ing
Fields on Tuesday.

The girl ran to London Road for help at 9.50pm.

The park is a popular haunt for joggers and dog walkers.

Detective Inspector Robbie Allan, of Kilm-arnock CID, said: "This was an
extremely frightening assault for the young girl concerned.

"Walkers, joggers and people exercising their dogs often frequent the playing
fields and it is likely the man responsible had been in the park prior to the
assault.

"I'd ask anyone who witnessed the incident or who may recognise the description
of the man to come forward."

The man was aged 15-25, 5ft 11in tall, and wore a dark blue hooded top and
baseball cap.

He smelled strongly of aftershave and wore a gold sovereign ring on his right
hand.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 29, 2003, Thursday

Modified weed may signal terrorist attack

BYLINE: Tim Reid in Washington

SECTION: Overseas news; 19

LENGTH: 331 words


AN AMERICAN scientist has been awarded a $ 500,000 (Pounds 300,000) government
grant to develop plants that change colour when they sense a biological or
chemical agent.

The project, an ingenious attempt to develop an early warning system against a
chemical or biological terrorist attack, seeks to genetically modify plants so
that forests, garden shrubs and even window boxes might one day become the
21st-century equivalent of the coalmine canary.

June Medford, a plant biologist at Colorado State University, said that when she
proposed the idea of using garden weeds as weapons in the War on Terror, she
believed that it would be met with ridicule. But since September 11 the
Pentagon, and now the newly created Department of Homeland Security, are
investing millions of dollars in outlandish projects that could help the US
Government to prevent or respond to another attack.

Ms Medford is seeking to genetically engineer the Arabidopsis plant, a weed
related to the brassica family. "A lot of us started thinking differently after
9/11," she told USA Today. When she proposed the idea to officials, "they said:
'Let's give it a try because it could make a huge difference.' " Under the terms
of her grant, she has 18 months to discover if the "amazing weed", as it is
described at Kew Gardens, can be genetically altered to change colour.

Not only plants, but insects are being recruited to fight terrorism. In
Virginia, a scientist is experimenting with beetles, crickets, bees and moths to
see if they could be used to monitor a biological or chemical attack. Karen
Kester, at the Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, has received a $ 1
million Pentagon grant.

The Department of Homeland Security has $ 130 million a year to spend on such
projects. "We aim to attract the best minds from the private sector and the
academic community and get them working on high-stakes, high-payoff projects,"
Tom Ridge, the department Secretary, said.


LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             May 31, 2003, Saturday

INTERNATIONAL NEWS: SPANISH CAR BOMB LEAVES TWO DEAD;
 TERRORIST ETA GROUP BLAMED FOR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 372 words

HIGHLIGHT: BLAST: Police officers examine the sceneof the car bomb


BASQUE terror group Eta resumed their bloody campaign for an independent
homeland today with a car bomb attack that killed two policemen and critically
wounded another in northern Spain.

The bomb went off under a police car outside an administrative building in
Sanguesa, Navarra province.

Two officers were killed and a third was so badly injured doctors were forced to
amputate his legs. A passing civilian was also hurt.

"Eta has murdered once again," Deputy Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said in
Madrid. He vowed to use "all means at our disposal" to fight the group and the
politicians linked to it.

In response to the attack, Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar called off a trip to
St Petersburg where he had planned to join a Russia - EU summit.

Eta often uses car bombs in its campaign for an independent Basque homeland in
northern Spain and south-west France. Its attacks have killed more than 800
people since the late 1960s.

In today's attack the policemen had entered a local government building in
Sanguesa to do administrative tasks. When they came out and got into their
Citroen car, a bomb under it detonated, officials said.

It was not clear if the device was attached to the car or simply placed
underneath while the police were in the building.

The explosion came five days after Basque local elections in which hundreds of
pro-independence candidates allegedly linked to Eta's outlawed political wing
were barred from running.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the bombing. Eta usually
takes weeks to claim responsibility for attacks, and often does so only through
the Basque-language media.

Navarra borders the troubled Basque region and is home to many Basque
nationalists. Sanguesa is 20 miles south-east of Pamplona.

The last attack blamed on Eta was the February 8 shooting of a police chief in
the Basque town of Andoiain, home to many supporters of the banned Basque party
Batasuna.

The pause in violence had led to speculation that Eta might be observing a truce
like the one it called in 1998. But two weeks ago hooded men calling themselves
Eta members appeared in a video broadcast on Basque TV and said the group's
fight would continue.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Century Newspapers Limited

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  May 31, 2003

CITY FOR FAKE TERROR ATTACK

LENGTH: 38 words


    A MOCK terror attack is to be staged in Edinburgh this weekend to test the
city's emergency services.

    A police spokesman said: "This will ensure we can respond to terrorism in a
competent and professional manner."


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                  June 1, 2003

Morocco fights back after terror attack

BYLINE: Jeremy Gates

SECTION: Features; Hobbies; Travel; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 468 words


London stages a Moroccan Culture Week this week.  And Morocco's National Tourist
Office unveils a secret weapon of its own in a celebration of the country's rich
culture, music, crafts and food - acclaimed comedian and impersonator Rory
Bremner.

With traditional-style Berber tents gracing the famous piazza at Covent Garden
Market, Bremner is the star of a charity black tie dinner in London's Savoy
Hotel which features Moroccan costumes from the seventh to 17th centuries.

The comedian says: "I've loved Morocco since I first visited the country 10
years ago.

"Its culture and history, the beauty of its landscape, and the warmth of its
people are an exotic and seductive combination." Another famous modern Brit,
former Tory Cabinet member Michael Portillo, went to Morocco to heal his wounds
when he was dumped from the Tory leadership contest in 2001.

And tourist officials hope that traditional British stoicism can get them out of
a hole this time too.

Ali El Kasmi, UK and Ireland Director of the Moroccan National Tourist office,
says: "We will not give in to terrorism or be cowed by senseless acts of
violence such as that seen recently.

"The Casablanca bombings do not in any way reflect the true nature and feelings
of the Moroccan people." Despite the bold words, operators admit bookings
collapsed completely for a week after the carnage. But they are coming back
fast, as hoteliers slash rates.

At Sunway, Ray Cox says: "With some Agadir hotels offering seven night stays for
the price of five, seven nights B&B holidays in June start at £389, including
private transfers.

"Marrakech is mostly visited by the British between September and May - so
bookings there have been less affected." At Exodus Adventure, Crispin Jones has
a £499 lead-in on seven night 'gite' stays in the rugged foothills of the Atlas
Mountains.

He says: "The British market is professional middle-class - mostly IT
professionals, medics, teachers, even builders. They like walking and culture
rather than dune bashing in four wheel drive trucks." About 147,000 Britons
visit Morocco each year. Peter Lilley, UK spokesman for the Moroccan National
Tourist Office, points out: "On the Foreign Office website scale of potential
danger, Morocco ranks the same level as Britain since they put slabs of concrete
around Westminster.

"There's no reason not to go, but be vigilant while you are there." Watch out
for generous deals in the next few weeks as Morocco recovers.

Besides Sunway (01628 660001) and Exodus (0208 772 3721), key operators include
Panorama and Southampton-based Cadogan. Cosmos 10-day Grand Tours start at £595,
or £735 with seven nights' B&B in Agadir added on.

Contact Moroccan National Tourist office in Regent Street, London W!, on 020
7437 0073, or by website www.visitmorocco.com.


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2003 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             June 3, 2003, Tuesday

MORGAN CHALLENGED ON READINESS FOR TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: TOM BODDEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 171 words


RHODRI Morgan was yesterday urged to stage an Assembly debate on Wales'
readiness to combat a terrorist attack.

The First Minister is a member of the government emergency group of politicians,
the Civil Contingencies Committee,chaired by Home Secretary David Blunkett.

Tory Assembly leader Nick Bourne challenged Mr Morgan to an "open and honest
debate" in the Assembly after MPs raised ques ti on marks over Britain's
defences.

The Government at Westminster denied claims by two parliamentary select
committees that the UK is not ready to deal with a major attack.

Mr Bourne said: "If cities such as London are not prepared for a terrorist
attack, then where does that leave areas such as Wales?

"There is all this discussion at Westminster about the lack of readiness but
nothing in Wales." He said party leaders should be briefed if issues were
considered too confidential to be made public.

"There are genuine questions that need addressing by Rhodri Morgan on this
matter,"added Mr Bourne.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 3, 2003

Middle East summit: Peace hopes lie heavy on new force: As President Bush flies
in for his first visit, we examine whether Abu Mazen can succeed in stopping
terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Chris McGreal in Jericho

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1110 words


Munjed Zydan laughs at the sudden interest in turning his doubtful young
recruits into another front in the war on terrorism. The commander of the new
Palestinian security force training camp in the West Bank town of Jericho does
not put it in those terms, but the Israelis do and he knows they are defining
the mission. Now the CIA has arrived to ensure the new policemen get their
priorities right.

"The American intelligence people were here to advise us and I said to them that
with all their security the Israelis could not stop (Yitzhak) Rabin being shot,"
Mr Zydan said. "We can do our best to enforce security if the Israelis just get
out of our cities. But if you really want to have security, you have to have
justice. It's an equation. They go hand in hand together."

The security force is a product of Israeli and US demands for Palestinian
leaders to focus on a "complete cessation of terror" before the mechanics of
freedom are discussed. Another result of the demands is the new Palestinian
prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas, known as Abu Mazen.

Ariel Sharon set Mr Abbas the goal of eradicating attacks by Palestinians before
Israel is obliged to take a single step along the US-led "road map" to peace. Mr
Abbas's allies protest that he is being asked to stop all terror after most of
the Palestinian police and security infrastructure has been destroyed, and many
of its personnel killed or disarmed, by the Israeli reoccupation of West Bank
cities.

Neither Yasser Arafat nor Mr Sharon has done much to help. The Palestinian
president is still wrangling for ultimate authority over security forces while,
for weeks, Mr Sharon refused to offer the smallest gesture to relieve the
exhaustion of life under military occupation.

Mr Abbas worked to win a commitment to a ceasefire from Hamas and other groups
responsible for suicide bombings. But Israel wanted Hamas destroyed.

Briefings against Mr Abbas by the Israeli security and political establishment,
which questioned his desire and ability to "stop the terror", left many
Palestinians believing he was being set up to fail as a means of killing the
road map.

Mr Abbas was clearly exasperated. "It will be very difficult to do it alone," he
told the Israeli newspaper Ha'aretz.

"If we go back to the cycle of reaction and action, that will make it difficult
for us to achieve the goal. It is important that the Palestinians see change on
the ground, like cessations of the assassinations and demolitions, and prisoners
being freed, and the Palestinian civilian should feel something has changed in
the atmosphere and he can go to work and move around. These things are critical
so the street supports the process."

But in recent days the Palestinians have drawn hope from George Bush's pledge to
use US political muscle to revive the peace process. They believe that
tomorrow's summit between President Bush, Mr Sharon and Mr Abbas in Jordan will
provide a test of whether the Americans are serious about forcing Israel's hand
after pressing its cabinet into a vote broadly approving the road map a
fortnight ago.

"We have absolutely no reason to trust Sharon," said a senior Palestinian
official. "But we have been assured by the Americans that Bush is serious. A few
weeks ago we had good reason to doubt that, but now we have more confidence
because there has been movement.

"We will see what happens in Aqaba, but if Bush forces Sharon's hand on
important symbolic issues like the outpost settlements then I think we can feel
sure that the balance of power has shifted. If Sharon can turn back, he will."

Five years ago, when Mr Sharon was infrastructure minister and still pushing the
rapid expansion of Jewish settlements in the occupied territories, he invited Mr
Abbas to dinner and laid out his now notorious maps for the carving up of
Palestinian territory into a series of cantons.

Mr Abbas asked how someone in Ram allah could travel to Bethlehem under such a
scheme. Mr Sharon replied that the blobs of Palestinian territory would be
linked by tunnels and bridges. Since then, his vision has expanded to include a
vast wall and fence caging the bulk of the Palestinian population inside a
"state".

Last week, Mr Sharon fleetingly generated some excitement when he appeared to
reverse his position as he defended his decision to embrace the road map.

"It is not possible to continue holding three and a half million people under
occupation," he said. "This is a terrible thing for Israel, for the Palestinians
and for the Israeli economy. Today, 1.8 million Palestinians live thanks to
support from international organisation. Do you want to take responsible for
them yourselves? I do not think that it is right to control Bethlehem and
Ramallah."

The correction came within a day. Mr Sharon's aides said he was not referring to
occupation of land but had meant to say Israel could not go on ruling the
Palestinians. His vision of the West Bank divided almost evenly between millions
of Palestinians and a few hundred thousand Jewish settlers still stood.

As Israelis digested the conflicting signals, the words of Mr Abbas a few days
earlier took on added weight. "I don't want to judge Sharon by what he says or
by what's said about him," he had said. "I know him inside and out. I'll believe
him only when he implements the road map."

Yasser Arafat will not be at tomorrow's summit, at least as a physical presence.
He is boycotted by the Americans and Israelis, but not by the European nations.

Mr Arafat remains head of the Palestinian Authority and the Palestine Liberation
Organisation. As such, he retains the last say in peace talks. And Mr Abbas
remains his deputy.

But the respected Palestinian analyst Khalil Shikaki says the balance of power
is shifting. "The more Bush presses Sharon, the more that strengthens Abu Mazen.
Arafat wants to retain his influence, but he will not do anything that will show
he is to blame for the failure of the road map because he knows very well that
if he is blamed for the failure he will have made himself a target for the
Israelis to take him out.

"There is a sense in which Abu Mazen and Arafat need each other. Arafat gives
Abu Mazen legitimacy with the people on the street. Abu Mazen offers Arafat a
future because he continues to argue that he is the true elected representative
of the Palestinian people and that it is a political mistake to isolate him.

"But in the end, the Americans will decide which way the power shifts. Abu Mazen
is entirely a product of the road map. If the Americans don't deliver on this,
Abu Mazen is gone - finished."


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  June 3, 2003

LABOUR TRIO'S TERROR OVER HAMMER ATTACK

LENGTH: 220 words


    THREE politicians cowered in terror as a maniac smashed their office windows
with a sledgehammer.

    Labour MSP Susan Deacon, MP Gavin Strang and Edinburgh councillor Maureen
Child were showered with glass in the attack.

    All three were said to be "severely shaken".

    They were meeting with staff at their shopfront constituency office in the
city when the man struck.

    He first smashed the window of the next-door shop then set about two plate
glass windows in the Labour HQ.

    Mr Strang said: "This guy just walked along smashing the three windows in
turn. He didn't say anything. It was frightening, but very short-lived. We
decided it might be unwise to pursue him."

    The Edinburgh East MP added: "I can only guess it had some sort of wider
political motive."

    A Labour source said: "They heard shattering glass from the shop next door,
which Labour rents to Traidcraft. Then the guy took a hammer to their window."

    "The glass shattered over them. They were severely shaken."

    A man resembling the attacker was later filmed on CCTV outside a nearby
amusement arcade. A police spokesman said: "There appears to be no reason for
this vandalism."

    Three years ago, Lib Dem MP Nigel Jones's aide was killed by a maniac
wielding a sword at his constituency surgery in Cheltenham, Gloucs.


LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            June 4, 2003, Wednesday

NEW FOUNDATION HELPS FERMANAGH'S 'FORGOTTEN VICTIMS' OF TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: ANNE PALMER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 425 words

HIGHLIGHT: HELPING HAND: Arlene Foster, UUP, offically opens the office of the
new Victim Support Group in Main Street, Lisnaskea, with help from Georgina
Kelly, May Madill, Johnny Kelly, Ernest Madill and Alan Madill, all members of
the foundation Picture: John McVittyBOMB SCENE: Forty people were injured in the
explosion at the Killyhevlin Hotel in 1996


As a new drop-in centre to support victims of the Troubles opens in Fermanagh,
ANNE PALMER talks to three families whose lives were irreparably damaged by
violence - and who have been helped to rebuild their lives

A FERMANAGH group which supports the forgotten victims of the troubles has
opened the doors of its new office and 'drop in' centre for the first time.

Ulster Unionist Assembly election candidate Arlene Foster formally declared the
new premises open at Main Street Lisnaskea.

The South East Fermanagh Foundation was formed in August 1999 to support the
needs of victims of paramilitary terrorism and their families, many of whom
lived in the Fermanagh close to the border with Monaghan and Cavan.

Mrs Foster said it was a great delight to be there to open the unit in her own
home town.

"It is especially significant as I'm someone who comes from a family background
of having to move home at the hands of terrorists,"

"The people of South East Fermanagh really have suffered so much at the hands of
terrorists,"

Mrs Foster said that while there had been much work to support victims going on
over recent years in the back-ground, the new premises heralded a "visible
presence in Fermanagh for the first time".

Alan Madill, coordinator of South East Fermanagh Foundation, said: "The group
came into being initially to highlight the plight of countless 'forgotten
victims' who have been overlooked, whether intentionally or unintentionally, by
a large section of society."

He said the forgotten victims had been largely ignored by political and church
leaders and dismissed by nation and international governments.

"Members of the group said they felt a need to talk about what they have
suffered at the hands of the terrorists, to others who have had similar
experiences, to be listened to sympathetically, and to do so in a safe
ennvironment," he said.

"The community of South East Fermanagh has suffered greatly at the hands of
terrorist death squads since the terror campaigns started in 1968. Most murders
and attacks remain unsiolved, which serves to prolong the agony for those
involved.

"Over these years, there have been numerous terrorist incidents, resulting in
dozens of murders, many injuries and countless cases of intimidation and
bomings."

Now with the assistance of core funding allocated through the Community
Relations Council, NIVT, Fermanagh District Council and the Sperrin Lakeland
Health and Social Care Trust, the victims' support group can continue its work.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Century Newspapers Limited

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 6, 2003, Friday

SEX CRIMES SHOCKER;
 EXCLUSIVE TERROR IN IRELAND AS RAPES DOUBLE & ATTACKS TREBLE IN ONLY

BYLINE: DAMIEN LANE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1134 words

HIGHLIGHT: SOCIETY'S FEAR: Modern Ireland has a big sex crime problem


IRELAND is in the grip of a sex crime epidemic, a special Irish Mirror
investigation has revealed.

Recorded rapes on women have DOUBLED in the past three years while sexual
assaults have TREBLED between 2000 and 2003.

In 2000, there were 249 rapes across Ireland. But by last year, the latest
period for which official figures are available, there were a record 507
nationwide.

And the number of sexual assaults against women has increased from 549 in 2000
to 1,632 last year.

Sources told the Irish Mirror that rapes and sexual assaults show no sign of
decreasing.

In May this year, unofficial figures showed sexual offences were higher than at
any stage on record.

A source revealed: "Gardai across Ireland are recording a rising number of
sexual offences.

"Over the past three years both rapes and sexual assaults have risen hugely.

"And from what ordinary gardai on the ground are saying, 2003 will be a record
year for rapes and sexual assaults."

The biggest increase has been recorded outside Dublin.

Counties Galway, Clare, Roscommon and Mayo saw a total of 29 rapes in 2000. By
last year there were 73, a 110 per cent increase.

Co Clare recorded the biggest rise in rapes over the same period, up 313 per
cent.

Last year the number of rapes dropped, but was still double the 2000 figure.

It was similar picture in the south of the country.

In 2000, Cork, Kerry and Limerick between them had 61 rapes and 165 sexual
assaults reported.

There was a 40 per cent rise in rapes to 89, and a 30 per cent rise in sexual
assaults to 229 by last year.

The only region that recorded a drop in rapes between 2001 and last year was the
south-east.

There were 36 rapes in 2000 in Tipperary, Waterford, Wexford, Kilkenny and
Wicklow combined.

The following year the counties recorded 54 rapes - up 35 per cent.

However, by last year there were 50 rapes, a drop of eight per cent.

Cavan, Monaghan, Donegal, Sligo and Leitrim saw a rise in recorded rapes between
2000 and last year of 63 per cent. There were 32 rapes in 2000, a figure which
rose to 55 last year. Sligo and Leitrim showed the largest increase in rapes, up
just over 200 per cent from eight"" in 2001 to 17 last year.

The Eastern counties of Carlow, Kildare, Laois, Offaly, Longford, Westmeath,
Louth and Meath also saw a big increase in sex crimes.

Across all eight counties there were 58 rapes in 2000. The following year that
figure had risen by 17 per cent to 69. By last year the number of rapes had
again risen to 81, a 35 per cent rise on 2000.

Dublin also had a huge increase in rapes and sex assaults from 2000.

Across all metropolitan regions, except North Dublin, there was a year-on-year
increase in recorded rapes.

In 2000 Dublin saw 78 rapes. In 2001 there were 126 and last year that figure
had jumped to 159, up 200 per cent in two years. North Dublin's rape statistics
showed an enormous jump between 2000 and 2001, up 336 per cent from 16 rapes in
2000 to 48 in 2001.

However, last year there were 11 recorded rapes in the North Dublin area, a drop
of 400 per cent.

But South Dublin is the most dangerous area to live for women. The South
Metropolitan region, which covers some of the city's poshest neighbourhoods,
witnessed a 390 per cent rape explosion between 2000 and 2002.

In 2000, there were 10 rapes recorded. By last year there were 39.

Ivana Bacik, Criminology lecturer at Trinity College, believes the rise in sex
crimes may be down to victims being more willing to tell gardai what has
happened to them.

She explained: "Some of it has to do with people reporting crimes that happened
to them years ago.

"Ireland is now a more open society and people are more willing to report crime
to the authorities today.

"In the past there was a big dark figure for unreported sex crime."

Ms Bacik also believes Ireland's economic success explains the rise in rapes and
assaults.

She said: "In times of prosperity there is usually a decrease in property crime
and an increase in crimes against the person."

The official figures also hide a grim fact.

Rape Crisis Network Ireland (RCNI) believes just one third of rapes are reported
to the authorities.

A lack of sexual assault treatment centres means many victims suffer in silence,
according to the group.

Budgets and health cutbacks mean only four centres - in Dublin, Cork,
Letterkenny and Tralee - are available.

RCNI spokeswoman Ingrid Wallace said recently: "We need to make these facilities
more accessible.

"Women are expected to make round trips of more than 100 miles to attend such a
unit.

"This only adds to the woman's trauma at a time of immense stress."

A backlog in dealing with rape cases in the circuit courts also means victims
must wait up to two years to get justice.

The number of rape cases going to court trebled in five years to 113 in 2000.

Fine Gael's justice spokesman John Deasy said modern Ireland has a serious
problem with sex crimes.

He added: "According to a recent Royal College of Surgeons report you are at far
greater risk of being sexually abused in Ireland than anywhere else.

"There are a lot of reasons. One of them being that the Irish are sexually
repressed.

"When you realise that around 10 per cent of the prison population are sex
offenders, it shows how serious a problem there is in Ireland today."

HOW THE VIOLENCE SOARED

SLIGO & LEITRIM

2000 2001 2002

Rape 5 8 17

Assaults 10 6 23

MAYO

2000 2001 2002

Rape 4 6 10

Assaults 15 22 70

GALWAY WEST

2000 2001 2002

Rape 16 19 38

Assaults 26 44 102

CLARE

2000 2001 2002

Rape 6 33 18

Assaults 11 23 45

TIPPERARY

2000 2001 2002

Rape 10 11 12

Assaults 14 59 53

LIMERICK

2000 2001 2002

Rape 5 13 18

Assaults 22 50 33

KERRY

2000 2001 2002

Rape 2 5 7

Assaults 8 19 35

CORK

2000 2001 2002

Rape 38 43 66

Assaults 56 96 161

DONEGAL

2000 2001 2002

Rape 14 10 22

Assaults 26 28 78

CAVAN & MONAGHAN

2000 2001 2002

Rape 6 10 16

Assaults 23 43 63

ROSCOMMON & GALWAY EAST

2000 2001 2002

Rape 6 5 7

Assaults 16 12 54

LONGFORD & WESTMEATH

2000 2001 2002

Rape 16 15 10

Assaults 13 21 38

LOUTH & MEATH

2000 2001 2002

Rape 18 16 26

Assaults 38 36 88

DUBLIN

2000 2001 2002

Rape 54 69 81

Assaults 154 314 559

LAOIS & OFFALY

2000 2001 2002

Rape 5 8 8

Assaults 20 62 43

CARLOW & KILDARE

2000 2001 2002

Rape 18 29 36

Assaults 14 35 52

WEXFORD & WICKLOW

2000 2001 2002

Rape 11 21 24

Assaults 24 52 61

WATERFORD & KILKENNY

2000 2001 2002

Rape 14 22 14

Assaults 24 126 74

TOTAL:

2000 2001 2002

Rape 249 401 507

Assaults 549 1048 1632

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Eastbourne

                                  June 6, 2003

Attack victim's machete terror

BYLINE: our news team (news@theargus.co.uk)

LENGTH: 153 words

DATELINE: Eastbourne


Police have issued a CD-fit picture of a man who threatened two women with a
rusty 14in machete in an Eastbourne street.

He told one of the women to hand over her rucksack saying "I will cut you if you
don't" and raising the blade to her throat as she took it off.

He made the other woman hand over her handbag and fled with mobile phones bank
cards and cash.

The attack happened around 10pm on May 21 the night Celtic played Porto in the
UEFA Cup final.

A police spokesman said: "If anyone remembers anything suspicious in the area at
the time please contact Sussex Police on 0845 6070999 or Crimestoppers
anonymously and free on 0800 555111."

The attacker was in his early to late 30s about 5ft 9in and of average build. He
had dark hair which hung down to his chin and was slightly wet.

He wore a dark brown three-quarter length leather jacket which appeared to be
much too big for him.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The man police want to quiz;

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                  June 6, 2003

Race security stepped up over terror attacks

BYLINE: Local London Reporter

LENGTH: 316 words


Racegoers are being urged not to stay away from this year's Epsom Derby by
police who say tightened security means they will be safe from terrorist
attacks. The row over who should pay for policing the event has been resolved
for the time being and Surrey Police are now stepping up security in the light
of the recent attacks in Africa and the Middle East. Although police refuse to
give specific details they have confirmed they will be working with specialist
officers from the Met in a low-profile surveillance campaign.

A police spokesman said: "We are aware of current threat levels and we will be
taking appropriate measures. We have been working with United Racecourses and
some specialist officers. But obviously we wouldn't discuss the measures in
detail.

The cost of policing the event runs into hundreds of thousands of pounds and is
a prime target for the raft of cuts Surrey Police are making as a result of
their slashed government grant. Although arrangements for this year's Derby have
now been finalised talks are ongoing for the future. United Racecourses MD
Stephen Wallis said: "We have an agreement which has provided for this year and
part of that agreement is that we are still engaged in perfectly amicable
negotiations."

The huge police operation is not solely targeted towards combating possible
terrorism. Months of planning will be put to the test at the weekend with the
aim to keep crime as low as possible. Police are warning both residents and
racegoers to be vigilant over the race weekend particularly against bogus
callers pickpockets and cold callers offering to relay driveways or chop down
hedges. And a dedicated phone line has been set up to alert police to serious
concerns relating to the Derby weekend. The number is 01483 482703. The usual
number of 0845 125 2222 should still be used for general policing or traffic
inquiries.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             June 7, 2003, Saturday

TERROR ATTACKS ON WEST STILL POSSIBLE'

BYLINE: JANE MERRICK AND JANE KIRBY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 289 words


OSAMA bin Laden is "probably" alive and the West could still be vulnerable to
terror attacks, the president of Afghanistan warned yesterday.

Hamid Karzai, speaking during an official visit to London, said that although al
Qaida's presence in Afghanistan was no more,no nation had the capability to stop
an individual carrying out a terrorist atrocity.

Asked whether he believed another September 11 could happen,Mr Karzai said: "I
hope not."

But he added: "Things like that can be done by an individual. In Afghanistan
they still can have a gun and come and kill common people.

"Do we have the capability to stop that? Does any nation have the capability to
stop that?No.

"But can they operate in large groups?

"Can they have other similar activities that would take an organised form of
large people?

"No they cannot do that any more.That's gone."

Mr Karzai said he had "no idea" where Osama bin Laden was,adding: "There are
signs that he's alive.

"There are also signs that he's not alive,now we don't know.

"I can't say (whether he's alive).Probably he is.

"But I can tell you one thing, that terrorism is defeated.

"The evidence is that they (al Qaida) are no longer in Afghanistan. The evidence
is that they no longer control territory.

"The evidence is that they are on the run, they arehiding."

War in Iraq helped the process of tackling terrorists, Mr Karzai said.

Mr Karzai has called on the international community to give his country 15-20bn
US dollars (pounds 9bn-pounds 12bn).

He said: "I think the signs of a very stable future for Afghanistan are already
there,and the signs are in the enthusiasm of the Afghan people to see it."

welshnews@dailypost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 7, 2003, Saturday

GERMAN HELD OVER LINKS TO TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 78 words


FRANCE: A German man suspected of links to the 11 September attacks in the
United States and a suicide attack at a Tunisian synagogue last year has been
arrested, French police said yesterday. Christian Ganczarski, 36, was
apprehended on Monday, a day after French police detained a Moroccan man also
wanted in connection with the 11 September attacks. A French police spokesman
said it was not clear what role Mr Ganczarski might have played in either
attacks.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The News of the World

                                  June 8, 2003

TERROR ATTACK ON THE QUINNS

LENGTH: 213 words


    THE family of the tragic Quinn brothers who were torched in their beds by
loyalists have been attacked by terrorists again.

    The boys' uncle Frankie, who helped carry one of his nephew's coffins, was
beaten up and threatened at gunpoint by republican paramilitaries at his home in
Rasharkin, Co Antrim.

    The house is a short distance from St Mary's Church cemetery where the three
Quinn boys are buried.

    He was taken to hospital after the beating around 11pm on May 14 suffering
from head, arm and body injuries.

    A gang of masked men, armed with a handgun and brandishing a baseball bat,
forced their way into his Rockview Park home.

    Threat

    They attacked Mr Quinn, who is a Catholic, and threatened him at gunpoint.

    A police spokesman last night confirmed details of the attack but said they
had yet to establish a motive.

    Sinn Fein last night declined to comment on the attack with sources saying
it was unclear which group was behind the incident.

    The attack comes five years after brothers Richard, Mark and Jason Quinn
died when UVF terrorists lobbed petrol bombs into their home in Ballymoney, Co
Antrim.

    Older brother Lee survived because he was staying with his gran. And mum
Christine leapt to safety from an upstairs window.


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             June 08, 2003, Sunday

Four German peacekeepers killed in Kabul car bombing Afghan president pleads for
foreign troops to stay as fresh terrorist attacks hit his capital

BYLINE: BY DAVID ORR in Kabul

SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 796 words

A SUSPECTED suicide car bomber blew up a bus carrying German peacekeepers in
Kabul yesterday, killing at least four soldiers and injuring 30 people, many of
them local passers-by.

The members of the International Security Assistance Force were being driven in
a minibus from their base in the east of the Afghan capital to the airport,
where they were due to fly to Germany on leave.

The bus was thrown off the road by the force of the blast, which happened at
8am. Witnesses reporting seeing the wreckage of the car that was laden with
explosives and shards of glass littering the heavily bloodstained road.

Sardar Ahmad, an Afghan journalist, reached the scene minutes after the
explosion. "I saw body parts lying all over the ground," he told The Sunday
Telegraph. Bystanders and policemen told him that they had seen a yellow and
white vehicle, believed to be a taxi, being driven into the bus.

Isaf troops were quickly on the scene and cordoned off the area. Medical staff
worked to free victims from the wreckage of the bus, while a helicopter ferried
the wounded to hospital.

Lt Col Paul Kolken, an Isaf spokesman, confirmed that the peacekeepers had been
the target of "a deliberate attack from a passing car". If a suicide bomber is
found to have been responsible, it would be the first time such lethal methods
have been used against peacekeepers in Afghanistan.

International concern has been mounting over reports that remnants of the former
Taliban regime in Afghanistan, and members of al-Qaeda, are regrouping to launch
attacks on foreign troops.

"An investigation into the incident is being carried out in close co-operation
with the Afghan authorities," said Brig Gen Robert Bertholee, of the Royal
Netherlands Army, which is currently leading Isaf with Germany.

Hamid Karzai, the Afghan president, who returned to Kabul from his official
visit to Britain just hours after the bus was bombed, strongly condemned the
"terrorist attack". Last week, he issued a plea to the world not to withdraw
Isaf forces from the country, warning them that it would be "hell" because of
the lack of security.

An Afghan police official, who put yesterday's death toll at five including the
car driver, said it was too early to say who was behind the attack, but it is
suspected that members of the ousted Taliban regime were responsible.

On Friday, a Taliban commander said that the group's leader, Mullah Mohammed
Omar, had ordered his forces to regroup and take revenge for the killing of his
fighters in a battle last week. Afghan officials said up to 40 Taliban fighters
died in what they described as the Taliban's biggest defeat since late 2001.

Yesterday's blast - the second violent incident involving German peacekeepers in
Kabul in a fortnight - is the latest in a string of attacks aimed at US-led
coalition forces, international peacekeepers and aid agencies.

On May 29, a German soldier was killed and another wounded when their vehicle
hit a land mine near Kabul, although officials blamed an old land mine, rather
than a deliberate act of sabotage. At least 14 German peacekeepers have now died
in Afghanistan, mostly as a result of accidents.

Gerhard Schroder, the German chancellor, said that yesterday's attack was
"cowardly and devious", aimed at undermining the fragile peace in Afghanistan.

"Based on what we have so far been able to determine, terrorist forces opposed
to peace and stability in Afghanistan carried out this attack," he said.

"These sorts of attacks are aimed at undermining the peace process in this
country, which has been ravaged by 20 years of war, and bombing it back into
anarchy.

"Our deepest sympathies go out to the families of our soldiers, who put their
lives at risk for a better and peaceful future for the country."

Late last month, 62 Spanish peacekeepers returning from Afghanistan were among
75 people killed when their charter plane crashed into a mountain in Turkey.

Two Norwegian officers were wounded during an ambush by a gunman last month in a
village to the north of the capital. In March, an Afghan interpreter for Isaf
was killed and a Dutch soldier wounded when a home-made bomb was thrown into
their car in Kabul.

Despite the increased vulnerability of Isaf troops, Mr Karzai pleaded for their
deployment in Afghanistan to continue. "The man on the street trusts the Isaf
soldier more than an Afghan soldier," he said in a speech at Oxford University.

Mr Karzai was reflecting concern in Kabul that the war in Iraq and subsequent
reconstruction efforts were siphoning funds and troops away from Afghanistan,
which is no longer a focus of world concern. During his three-day visit, he
secured pledges of further military support.
[PS]News: [ES]

International:

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          $%Investment Adviser adviser

                               June 9, 2003 2003

Resources ride out global events; The conflict in the Gulf and the threat of
terror attacks hits global natural resouces resouces

SECTION: ISSN. 1361-1593 1593

LENGTH: 444 words words


Global natural resource stocks have generally underperformed the main global
stock market indices so far this year following strong outperformance during the
previous three years.

Energy stocks have been supported by tight oil supply, which included not only
the threat of disruption to Gulf production caused by the war in Iraq, but also
low inventories in the US and supply problems in Venezueula (because of an oil
workers strike) and Nigeria.

Oil prices briefly reached $37 a barrel in February, at the peak of anxiety over
production and the lead up to war, but they have subsequently fallen back
sharply following the success of coalition forces in Iraq and the removal of the
war risk premium.  premium.

With the war in Iraq now over, and Gulf oil supplies not affected, a further
spike in the oil price seems unlikely. However, over the longer term, oil prices
remain relatively cheap in real terms and do not look particularly stretched.

Falling oil prices have contributed to the worldwide fall in inflation over the
past few years.

Although we do not expect a spike in prices, energy markets should remain tight
due to low inventories in the US, and supply problems in Venezuela and -more
recently- Nigeria. These factors will support prices, and underpin stock
valuations in the sector.

Golden touch

Gold prices, like oil, have also been inflated by geopolitical anxieties, but
the bullion price fell in March and April in response to the better than
expected progress of the Coalition forces in Iraq.

This resulted in falls for gold stock prices, while base metal prices and stocks
also fell as attention returned to the poor outlook for global growth in the
light of continued poor US economic data and deteriorating business confidence
throughout the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries.

The gold price has moved slightly higher in May as terrorist attacks in Saudi
Arabia and new threats to the US caused some nervousness.

Demand

However, the gold market is somewhat different from the oil market, in that
demand is relatively elastic. However, miners are continuing to unwind their
hedge positions and production is falling. Demand still far outstrips mine
production and the bull case for gold remains intact.

There is a less strong case for base metals if global growth slows, however,
there has been little evidence as yet that Chinese demand growth has come to an
end.

All in all we remain optimistic for commodity-related company share prices on an
absolute and on a relative basis during the remainder of 2003.

Tom Elliot is a strategist for JPMorgan Fleming fleming

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003 2003

LANGUAGE: English english

            Copyright 2003 Financial Times Business Limited limited

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              June 9, 2003, Monday

DOG ATTACK GIRL TERROR;
 VICTIM MAY BE SCARRED FOR LIFE

BYLINE: GURDIP THANDI VICTIM: Injured Stacy Briggs; MASSAGE CHALLENGE: Trish
Parkinson gets to work on colleague Maureen Brown. Picture: Alan Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 250 words


A GIRL of 13 may be scarred for life after being savagely attacked by a dog in
the street.

Stacy Briggs was 100 yards from her home in Dawes Avenue, West Bromwich, she was
mauled by a Staffordshire Bull Terrier.

Stacy, who lives with her grandparents William and Anne Hackett, was badly
bitten on her face, arms and legs and was taken to Sandwell General Hospital for
treatment on Saturday and detained.

A passer-by was also bitten as he tried to drag the dog away from the teenager.

Mr Hackett today said that his grand-daughter's condition was improving today.
She had dozens of stitches in her wounds, he said.

'Despite the terrible injuries she has suffered, she is coping with it quite
well.

'My biggest fear is that she is going to be permanently scared of dogs for the
rest of her life, as we own two Rottweilers, but Stacy said she knows her dogs
wouldn't hurt anyone.

'My wife Anne and I are absolutely devastated by this because it is going to be
a long term process for recovery.'

Mr Hackett added: 'Stacy was only playing outside, about 100 yards outside her
own house, and that really shouldn't happen.

'I will be doing everything I can to help the police trace the dog and its owner
to make sure it is destroyed.'

A West Midlands Police spokesman said: 'We can confirm that a 13-year-old girl
was bitten by a dog in Dawes Avenue, West Bromwich.

'The owner of the dog has been traced and reported for offences under the
Dangerous Dogs Act.'

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                              June 9, 2003, Monday

SOLDIERS KILLED IN GAZA TERROR ATTACK;
 PALESTINIAN MILITANT GROUPS ISSUE THREAT

BYLINE: ED JAMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 454 words


THREE Palestinians disguised as Israeli soldiers sneaked into an army post
yesterday and killed four Israeli soldiers before being killed by troops - the
first major attack on Israelis since last week's Middle East summit.

The attack could be a major setback to the US "road map" peace plan and came
just hours after Palestinian militant groups confirmed they would not halt
attacks on Israelis.

Three armed groups - Hamas, Islamic Jihad and the Al Aqsa Martyrs' Brigade -
claimed joint responsibility for the attack. A leaflet gave the names of the
gunmen, all in their early 20s, one from each group.

"This joint operation was committed to confirm our people's united choice of
holy war and resistance until the end of occupation over our land and holy
places," the leaflet said. The Al Aqsa militia is linked to the ruling Fatah
movement,and its involvement in the attack was a direct challenge to Palestinian
Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas, a senior Fatah member, who has been trying to
persuade militants to halt attacks on Israelis.

The Israeli military said four soldiers were killed and four others injured in
the attack by the men armed with assault rifles and grenades.

Major General Doron Almog, head of the army's southern command, told Israel
Radio that the attackers arrived by surprise at the northern edge of the post,
killed three soldiers at close range and a fourth soldier inside the base.

Israel demanded that Abbas immediately begin arresting militants, dismantling
their organisations and disarming Palestinians.

"If terrorism will continue,it will destroy the road map,it will destroy the
peace process,"Israeli government spokesman Avi Pazner said.

Abbas said he would resist pressure to crack down on the militants and would
continue efforts to talk with them.

"We will not allow anybody to drag us into a civil war,"Abbas said yesterday.

Israel had provoked the attacks by continuing restrictions on Palestinians and
killing two Hamas militants near the West Bank city of Tulkarem on Thursday
night,Palestinian Foreign Minister Nabil Shaath said.

The gunmen, who wore Israeli army uniforms,attacked the army post near the Erez
crossing into Israel just after dawn. The post is near an Israeli-run industrial
zone at the northern end of the Gaza Strip.

The attack underscored the determination of militants to derail the so-called
"road map" to Middle Eastern peace, which envisions a Palestinian state by 2005.

The attack came hours after an armed Palestinian tried to attack a Jewish
settlement in Gaza,according to Palestinian and military sources.

Israeli troops killed the man, who was armed with an assault rifle and a pouch
of grenades.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 9, 2003, Monday

7 DIE IN TERROR ATTACK ON ARMY POST

BYLINE: STEPHEN WHITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 210 words

HIGHLIGHT: TERROR: Gunmen before raid; AFTERMATH: Two Palestinian gunmen lie
dead after the raid on an Israeli army checkpoint in the Gaza Strip


THREE Palestinians disguised as soldiers were shot dead yesterday after killing
four Israeli troops at an army post.

The raid, staged by three Islamic groups, was the first since last week's Middle
East summit and a major setback to peace talks. A video tape released by the
militant groups showed three men sat at a table with hand grenades, assault
rifles and a copy of the Koran.

The group - all in their twenties - launched the attack on a checkpoint in the
Gaza Strip under cover of heavy fog just after dawn.

The post is near an Israeli-run industrial area.

Hamas, Islamic Jihad and the Al Aqsa Martyrs' Brigade, who claimed
responsibility for the raid, said in a statement: "This joint operation was
committed to confirm our people's united choice of holy war and resistance until
the end of occupation over our land and holy places." The attack was seen as a
direct challenge to Palestinian Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas, who has been
trying to persuade militants to halt raids on Israelis. In a further blow to any
peace process, an Israeli was killed and an Israeli policeman injured in a raid
near a disputed holy site in the West Bank city of Hebron. Two Palestinian
gunmen were killed in a separate attack in the same area.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Essex

                                  June 9, 2003

Hadleigh: Girl tells of attack terror

LENGTH: 253 words

DATELINE: Essex


A teenager today told how she burst into tears after being pursued and attacked
outside her home.

Kristy Brown 17 was walking home from her grandmother's when a cyclist with
rotten teeth stopped her in London Road to ask for directions to Hadleigh's
shops.

Kristy a student told him where they were and swiftly carried on her journey
home to nearby Lynton Road Hadleigh.

Around five minutes later she was walking along her road when the cyclist
reappeared by her side.

Kristy said: "It was at this point I realised something was wrong. It dawned on
me that I had been followed and I instantly felt scared.

"He said to me 'Where does this road lead?' and I told him it was a dead end
because I just wanted rid of him.

"He then asked why I was going down here and then jumped off his bike reached
out and grabbed me. He had one hand on my waist and one on my hip I managed to
twist out of his grasp and ran towards my house.

The King John sixth form student managed to get inside her home and slammed the
door behind her.

But her ordeal was not over. She continued: "He started knocking very gently at
the front door. I just froze I was sitting on the floor and couldn't stop
crying.

After a few minutes the man disappeared and Kristy phoned her boyfriend who told
her to call the police.

The attack happened at around 4.30pm on Wednesday.

Published Friday June 6 2003

Brought to you by the Evening Echo
(http://www.thisisessex.co.uk/essex/about_this_site/hosts-echo.html)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Safe now - Kirsty Brown was followed home by the man Picture: ROB
BROWNE ;

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            June 11, 2003, Wednesday

POLICE FOIL EMBASSY TERROR ATTACK PLANS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 103 words


Thai police have broken up a Jemaah Islamiyah cell and foiled a plot by the
regional terror group to attack embassies in Bangkok.

Four members of the al-Qaidalinked group have been arrested.

Arifin bin Ali (42) was arrested in Bangkok on May 16 following a tip by
Singapore's intelligence agency, said Maj Gen Chumpon Manmai, commander of the
Thai police's Special Branch. Three others, all Thais, were arrested yesterday
during raids on their homes in the Muslim-dominated Narathiwat province.

The Singapore embassy and four other embassies in Bangkok were targeted for
attacks, the statement said.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 11, 2003, Wednesday

UK 'FAILED TO PROTECT SELLAFIELD FROM TERROR ATTACKS'

BYLINE: DECLAN FAHY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 199 words

HIGHLIGHT: NUCLEAR RISK: The controversial Sellafield plant in Cumbria has
polluted the Irish Sea, it is claimed


BRITAIN did not do enough to protect Sellafield nuclear plant against terrorism,
the Irish Government told a court yesterday.

An international court in the Hague yesterday began hearing a legal bid by the
Republic to close the controversial complex in Cumbria.

Attorney General Rory Brady and his lawyers told the court: "The British
Government hadn't properly considered the possibility of a terrorist attack on a
ship leaving the site.

"Britain insufficiently reviewed the environmental impact of its nuclear complex
at Sellafield.

"Environmental reviews of the mixed plutonium and uranium fuel plant were not
thorough enough." The Government argued that the nuclear reprocessing plant has
extensively polluted the Irish Sea.

But Marine Minister Dermot Ahern claimed Ireland faced the "might of the British
empire" in its legal bid.

British lawyers denied Sellafield was polluting the sea and said the Cumbria
nuclear reprocessing plant was not a terrorist target.

They said: "The mixed fuel produced by the plant was less attractive to
potential terrorist."

They also claimed the plant meets the highest inter-national safety standards.

The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 June 11, 2003

Thai Police Foil Terrorist Plot To Attack Embassies

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 308 words


Thai police have broken up a Jemaah Islamiyah cell and foiled a plot by the
regional terror group to attack embassies in Bangkok, officials said yesterday.
Four members of the al Qaida-linked group have been arrested. Arifin bin Ali,
42, also known as John Wong Ah Hung, was arrested in Bangkok on May 16 following
a tip by Singapore's intelligence agency, said Maj Gen Chumpon Manmai, commander
of the Thai police's Special Branch.

Three others, all Thais, were arrested yesterday during raids on their homes in
the Muslim-dominated Narathiwat province. They were brought to Bangkok for
interrogation, Chumpon said.

"Arifin has disclosed he is involved with a group of like-minded individuals in
planning terrorist attacks against certain targets in Thailand," the Singapore
government said.

The Singapore embassy and four other embassies in Bangkok were targeted for
attacks, the statement said. It did not name the other diplomatic missions.

Arifin was an instructor in Jemaah Islamiyah's military training and security
unit.

He was trained to use weapons and explosives at a camp at Mindanao in the
southern Philippines run by the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, an Islamic
separatist group, the Singapore government said.

He fled to Malaysia in December 2001 when the government began a crackdown on
Jemaah Islamiyah that lead to the arrest of 31 suspected terrorists, the
city-state's Home Affairs Ministry said.

He had been hiding in Thailand since January last year and was handed over to
Singaporean authorities a day after his arrest, it said.

The ministry did not explain why the announcement of the arrest was delayed.

Jemaah Islamiyah has been accused of being responsible for bomb attacks on the
Indonesian island of Bali last October that killed 202 people, including 26
British holidaymakers.


LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2003 Western Morning News

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 June 11, 2003

Jury told of terror attack on city club

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 610 words


DRINKERS at a Bradford club cowered in terror in the cellar as a man launched a
terrifying firebomb attack on it at the height of the city's riots, a court
heard yesterday.



Mohammed Ilyas, 48, who is charged with arson with intent to endanger life, was
alleged to be one of a gang who set fire to the Manningham Ward Labour Club on
the night of July 7, 2001, as locals were enjoying an evening's entertainment.

The jury at Bradford Crown Court heard how 23 people, including a 78-year-old
woman and her severely handicapped son, had cowered in terror in the cellar of
the club as petrol bombs were hurled through the lounge bar windows, eventually
razing the building to the ground.

Their attempts to get out were thwarted by a blazing car near the fire escape,
as the searing heat kept them back, but all escaped with their lives when the
fire brigade came to their rescue.

Prosecuting barrister Alistair MacDonald QC said a singer had just finished his
act in the concert room of the club at about 11.30pm when bar staff noticed
swarms of Asian youths armed with petrol bombs gathering outside.

Club steward Roy Glister locked and bolted the doors and instructed all those
inside the club to gather in the lounge, but panic soon began to spread when a
brick was hurled through the window of the concert room.

It signalled the start of a prolonged attack on the club as petrol bombs
continued to come through the windows, setting fire to curtains and furniture
inside.

As people fled to the cellar, Asian youths were seen on the club's CCTV screen
kicking in the front door and smashing up the club.

The people in the cellar were absolutely petrified, said Mr MacDonald. It was
their fear they were going to die, either at the hands of the fire or at those
of the people who had broken into the club. Many were in tears and some were
physically sick.

Mr Glister, who lived above the club with his wife, Jean and their 16-year-old
daughter, made a 999 call saying people in the club had five minutes left of
their lives as the blaze ripped through the building, the court heard.

All the people in the building were rescued alive and within a very short time
the whole place was utterly ablaze, said Mr MacDonald.

All the Glisters could do was watch as their home collapsed into the body of the
club. More than £1m of damage was caused to the club that night, which was left
as a smoking ruin.

The jury was shown a series of photographs featuring a man the prosecution
claimed was Ilyas, taken from police video footage of the riots filmed on the
night.

In them, he is seen wearing an Afro-style wig to obscure his identity and
standing at points around the Manningham area in the thick of the rioting mob.

The jury is to be shown video evidence of Ilyas attempting to set fire to
curtains from outside the club and hurling a burning missile through a window.

The arson attack on the club was one of the most devastating incidents of the
riots, which began as groups of British National Party supporters clashed with
Anti-Nazi League members in mid-afternoon.

Hundreds of people later gathered in White Abbey Road, resulting in a five-hour
stand-off against police as missiles were thrown, shops and businesses looted
and public houses set on fire.

Judge Stephen Gullick warned the jury not be influenced by any publicity
surrounding the riots which they may have previously seen or heard in the media.

Ilyas, of Prospect Road, Wapping, Bradford, denies arson with intent to endanger
life and an alternative charge of arson being reckless as to whether life was
endangered.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 12, 2003

BIRD ATTACK FORCES SCHOOL TO SHUT; TERROR AS GULLS DIVE BOMB KIDS

BYLINE: By Geoff Marsh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 327 words


HUNDREDS of children were given the day off school yesterday after a flock of
seagulls dive bombed their playground.

In a scene reminiscent of Alfred Hitchcock's Hollywood classic The Birds, staff
had to take cover under umbrellas as the gulls, swooping to protect their
recently-hatched chicks, swarmed in.

All 260 pupils of St Mark's CofE primary school at Brighton, East Sussex, were
sent home while a nest of three baby gulls was removed from the roof.

Although none of the pupils, aged three to 11, was attacked, the school decided
it was too dangerous to carry on with lessons.

Herring gulls, larus argentatus, are more than 2ft long, and males can weigh up
to 3.5lb with an average wingspan of 55in.

Worried parents said the huge birds were "vicious" as they attacked staff who
went to ensure the children had left safely.

Anne Willson, who has two children at the school, said: "I heard that one of the
birds began attacking the caretaker, and the teachers were worried they would go
for the kids."

Lesley King, whose son Jamie is a pupil, added: "You hear of schools closing for
heating problems and flooding, but never for being threatened by seagulls. It's
bizarre."

A council spokeswoman said:

"The decision was taken to close the school to protect the pupils. The city
council obtained a licence to remove the gulls humanely to a new nesting site.

"The decision to close the school was not taken lightly but the safety of the
children is paramount. The council will be putting up netting and carrying out
other measures to prevent a repeat of the problem."

Roger Musselle, who runs a wildlife rescue centre in nearby Woodingdean, took in
the three chicks and will release them when they are grown.

He said: "The adults may be a bit aggressive for a while, but when they realise
their chicks have gone they will calm down.

"The seagulls may dive but I would be surprised if they actually hit anyone."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Worcestershire

                                 June 12, 2003

County prepared for terror attack

LENGTH: 327 words

DATELINE: Worcestershire


THE first updated decontamination unit to be used after a chemical or biological
attack on Britain has arrived in Worcestershire.

Teams from Hereford and Worcester Fire Brigade have been learning to use the
specially-designed tents which can be put up within 20 minutes and contain
showers to wash away harmful chemicals.

More than 190 of the purpose-built decontamination units and 80 new vehicles are
being distributed across England and Wales forming part of a £53m government
drive to equip the country against any biological disasters.

Around 4 400 gas-tight suits have also been delivered to the nation's fire
brigades which will form a network of rapid response teams to cope with any
chemical problems.

Fire chiefs said it was a coincidence that Worcestershire should have its
decontamination unit before London Birmingham and Manchester.

"This equipment is part of a Government package brought in following the
terrorist attacks of 9/11 " said Alec Mackie spokesman for Hereford and
Worcester Fire Brigade.

"Nationally the fire service has been charged with the responsibility of
carrying out the decontamination of personnel in the event of anything like this
happening.

"We carried out a number of training exercises earlier this month and as a
result the Government came up with specific equipment and training ideas which
we're now incorporating. We're one of the first brigades in the Midlands to
begin our training."

The units allows up to 200 people per hour to be decontaminated in a controlled
and closed environment.

A spokesman for the Office of the Deputy Prime minister which is overseeing the
funding said the precise locations of where the vehicles and units will be
stored could not be revealed for security purposes.

"The units will be strategically deployed throughout the country and will
increase the capability of the fire service's to tackle any chemical spillage's
or problems " he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 15, 2003, Sunday

Police will run internet after terrorist attack

BYLINE: David Leppard

SECTION: Home news; News; 28

LENGTH: 535 words


WIDE-RANGING powers to enable the police to run the internet and the rest of
Britain's information superhighway in the event of a terrorist attack will be
unveiled this week.

The Civil Contingencies Bill will seek to modernise Britain's response to
national emergencies by protecting the country from attacks on the
infrastructure including the "electronic network" and the water, electricity and
telephone systems.

Airlines, the transport network, town halls and the postal service could also
come under police direction in the event of a national disaster.

The bill, to be unveiled by Douglas Alexander, a senior Cabinet Office minister,
this Thursday will give ministers powers to issue orders to internet service
providers and those utilities that rely on the web.

It will also lay down new rules to ensure that all local authorities have
audited plans to deal with potential threats.

Senior officers will have powers to enlist any member of the public to help
civil defence staff. They will be able to commandeer equipment and buildings,
for which the owners will receive financial compensation.

However, in a move designed to allay fears that the bill could pave the way for
regional police states, ministers have decided against giving the police powers
to run the BBC.

The police already have extensive authority to control some parts of the
national infrastructure and order rapid evacuation of large areas, such as city
centres.

But ministers say the existing 1920 Emergency Powers Act is out of date. "The
bill will recognise the new scale of threat by widening the definition of what
an emergency is," said one Whitehall source. "We are concerned that people might
try to target the City or the information network and the internet.

"A serious attack to stop information being circulated through the internet and
electronic highway was not envisaged by the original act. The new bill will
allow police to take on special legislative measures to deal with the threat."

A draft version of the bill proposes that ministers will be able to invoke
regional or local states of emergency with any situation that "causes or may
cause serious harm to the welfare of the public".

These range from an accident involving motor traffic, flooding or an
environmental disaster to a biological, chemical or nuclear dirty bomb attack.

Officials yesterday played down the suggestion that the bill would give police
draconian new powers but pointed out it would allow the powers to be used in
wider areas.

"The bill is about timely modernisation, about bringing things up to the 21st
century," said one insider. "Computer networks, water, electricity and gas
utilities could all be targets and obviously that has big knock-on effects.

"The more we get information online, the more people have broadband, the more
that hospitals and electricity generators rely on the internet and electronic
information."

Firemen as well as police will be able to cordon off streets to remove or
contain people in the event of a major terrorist attack.

Those impeding a police officer or civil contingency force soldier will face big
fines or could be restrained by force.


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             June 16, 2003, Monday

MAN JAILED FOR TERROR ATTACK ON GIRLFRIEND

BYLINE: STEVE EVANS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 224 words


A BEDWORTH man has been sent to prison for beating up his girlfriend so
violently that her eye socket was smashed.

His victim was covered in so much blood that he washed her clothes and made her
have a shower before taking her to hospital for treatment.

Dennis Ogden, 48, of High View Drive, Ash Green, was jailed for 2 years at
Warwick Crown Court after pleading guilty to inflicting grievous bodily harm on
Sarah Pearson.

Further charges of kidnapping and imprisoning her, which he denied, were allowed
to lie on the court files.

Judge Richard Cole told Ogden: "What you did was to use mindless violence
towards Miss Pearson, who must have been terrified by you."

Paul Farrer, prosecuting, said Ogden's relationship with Miss Pearson was a
violent one. The couple agreed to meet at his caravan the day after an argument
but he ordered her inside saying: "We can do this my way, or the hard way."

He punched her so hard that she remembered hearing cracks which sounded like
bones in her face breaking.

Ogden dragged her by the hair into his caravan where he made her take off her
clothes because they were covered in blood, and then made her have a shower
while he put them in the washing machine.

Later, he took Miss Pearson to hospital where she was treated for a blow- out
fracture to her left eye socket.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 16, 2003, Monday

Saudis foil 'terrorist attack'

BYLINE: Michael Theodoulou

SECTION: Overseas news; 14

LENGTH: 190 words


Saudi Arabia said yesterday that it had foiled "an imminent terror" attack with
a raid on a bomb-filled apartment in the holy city of Mecca that left five
suspects and at least two security agents dead.

Several others were arrested, one of whom was reportedly wearing a suicide bomb
belt. Two Chadians, an Egyptian and a Saudi were among those being held. The
Saudi authorities have been eager to publicise operations against suspected
terrorists, answering criticism that the kingdom was doing too little to counter
Islamic extremism.

In the latest raid, police seized 72 locally-made bombs, along with a number of
weapons and bomb-making materials. The gunfight was the second bloody
confrontation between terrorists and security services in two weeks, and came a
day after the authorities announced that a total of 30 people have been arrested
in connection with recent bombings.

Saturday night's violence erupted after a group of men in a car ignored police
orders to stop, the semi-official Saudi daily, Okaz, reported. After a car
chase, during which shots were fired, the suspects took refuge in an apartment.


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 17, 2003, Tuesday

MOTHER AND SON IN SEX ATTACK TERROR;
 MUM'S SEX ORDEAL IN FRONT OF YOUNG SON

BYLINE: ANDY PROBERT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 297 words


A MOTHER was subjected to a terrifying sex attack and her one-year-old son
threatened with a knife in an ambush in Redditch.

The woman stopped to adjust a parasol on her son's pushchair near Woodrow Drive,
Woodrow, when she was thrown to the ground and threatened by a teenager wielding
a knife.

He forced her to hand over her mobile phone, then searched her handbag and stole
her purse.

Det Con Helen Russell, of Redditch police, said the attacker, who was with a
second man, threatened to harm the child if his mother did not do as she was
told.

He then indecently assaulted the shocked woman in front of the youngster. The
incident happened between 3.20pm and 4pm last Friday, but police said the woman
was so badly traumatised they have only just obtained the full details from her.
Det Con Russell said: 'This was a despicable attack on a woman and her child.

'Naturally, the mother was extremely upset and we have spent considerable time
with her and will continue to assist her.'

The offenders fled and the victim was able to make her way home where she raised
the alarm.

She was taken to Redditch's Alexandra Hospital and was treated for shock.

The molester was white, in his late teens, about 5ft 10ins tall, of medium
build, with short brown hair.

He had a slim face and wore a dark top and dark baggy trousers.

His accomplice was also white, of similar age and build, with brown hair, a
large face with a double chin and thick eyebrows.

He wore a long-sleeved dark top, dark trousers and had a mountain bike.

Police are keen to talk to a white man who was seen walking a large grey dog in
the area prior to the incident. Anyone with information should call Redditch
police on 08457 444 888 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                             June 17, 2003, Tuesday

EGYPT FAILS TO HALT TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 278 words


AN Egyptian bid to halt Palestinian terror attacks on Israelis failed last night
and rivals vowed the bloodshed would continue.

Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said his government would "pursue and catch
every initiator of terrorism and its perpetrators in every place and at every
time until victory."

Ismail Abu Shanab, leader of Hamas which is responsible for many suicide bomb
attacks, said that "now is not the time for a truce" In Gaza, officials at the
talks said Egypt would invite the parties to Cairo to continue the discussions
and reach an agreement.

However Israel's foreign minister demanded the militias be crushed, not courted.

Silvan Shalom rejected the idea of a deal with Hamas, saying Palestinian
security forces have to dismantle militias, as required by a US backed "road
map" to Palestinian statehood by 2005.

Shalom said a truce would simply allow militant groups to recover from Israeli
strikes: "We can't accept this (a ceasefire)."

Despite tough statements by Hamas, Palestinian officials were optimistic that a
deal can be announced very soon. "I hope we'll get some answers (from the
militias) tomorrow," said Palestinian Foreign Minister Nabil Shaath.

Egyptian mediators told the Palestinian factions in two days of talks that they
had been given American assurances that Israel will halt targeted killings of
Palestinians suspected of involvement in violence, participants in the talks
said.

The armed groups have said they will only consider stopping attacks - and then
only in Israel, not in the West Bank and Gaza Strip - if Israel promises to halt
military strikes, including targeted killings.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            June 18, 2003, Wednesday

MI5 BOSS WARNS TERROR ATTACK IS 'A MATTER OF TIME'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 496 words


A biological, chemical or nuclear terrorist attack on a Western city is 'only a
matter of time', the head of MI5 said yesterday.

Eliza Manningham-Buller (below) said: 'We are faced with a realistic possibility
of a form of unconventional attack that could include chemical, biological,
radiological or nuclear (CBRN). 'It is only a matter of time before a crude
version of a CBRN is launched on a Western city.'

The directorgeneral of MI5 said intelligence suggested that 'renegade
scientists' had given terrorist groups the information they needed to create
such weapons and that they would become more sophisticated.

But she added that conventional bombs and suicide bomb attacks remained their
preferred weapons.

'They (al Qaida) still remain an organisation capable of deadly terrorist
attacks,' she said.

'The threat from international terrorism is with us for a good long time.

'If this is a war that can be won, it is not going to be won soon.

'The supply of potential terrorists among extreme elements is unlikely to
diminish.

'Breaking the link between terrorism and religious ideology is difficult.'

Ms Manningham-Buller was making her first on-the-record speech since taking on
her new job in October last year.

Since becoming directorgeneral of the home security service, she has been
involved in countering the ricin plot and was involved last month in the review
of vulnerable targets in London which then led to a ring of concrete protection
being placed around the Houses of Parliament. Britain was put on its second
highest security alert last month. It would move to the top alert if there was
specific intelligence about a time, place or target for an attack.

Ms Manningham-Buller told a conference at the Royal United Services Institute in
central London that al Qaida was 'the first truly global threat'.

Recent attacks in Riyadh and Casablanca proved it and other groups still posed a
'potent threat'.

Previously, Scotland Yard's David Veness, the assistant commissioner in charge
of counterterrorism, conceded that a terrorist suicide attack will almost
certainly happen somewhere in Western Europe.

Ms ManninghamBuller said recent decades had seen a change from state-sponsored
terrorism to groups like al Qaida and its allies.

September 11 was a 'watershed', she said.

'We were shocked by the sheer scale of the devastation, which was beyond our
imagination,' she told the conference.

'There was plenty of intelligence before September 11 that something terrible
was going to happen. That was reflected in the dossier on Osama bin Laden that
the Government published shortly after September 11.'

The nature of the attack was unknown, she said, adding that intelligence
services like her own would never give a complete picture.

'Intelligence never tells you everything,' the Director-General said.

'In this subject, when it's a global threat, it tends to be patchy and
incomplete.'

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            June 18, 2003, Wednesday

TERROR ATTACK WARNING BY MI5

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 212 words


A BIOLOGICAL, chemical or nuclear terrorist attack on a Western city is "only a
matter of time", the head of MI5 said yesterday.

Eliza Manningham-Buller said: "We are faced with a realistic possibility of a
form of unconventional attack that could include chemical,biological,
radiological or nuclear (CBRN).

"It is only a matter of time before a crude version of a CBRN is launched on a
Western city."

She said intelligence suggested "renegade scientists" had given terrorist groups
the information they needed to create such weapons and they would become more
sophisticated.

But she added conventional bombs and suicide bomb attacks remained the preferred
weapons of groups such as al-Qaida.

She said: "They still remain an organisation capable of deadly terrorist
attacks.

"The threat from international terrorism is with us for a good long time.If this
is a war that can be won,it is not going to be won soon." Britain was put on its
second highest security alert last month.

It would move to the top alert if there was specific intelligence about a
time,place or target for an attack.

Ms Manningham-Buller told a conference at the Royal United Services Institute in
central London that al Qaida was "the first truly global threat".

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 18, 2003

FANATICS READY TO LAUNCH ASSAULT ON WEST; MI5: NUKE TERROR ATTACK IS 'CERTAIN'

BYLINE: By Adrian Lee and Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 436 words


THE head of MI5 gave a chilling warning yesterday that it is "only a matter of
time" before the launch of a terror attack involving a "crude" nuclear device or
biological weapons.

Eliza Manningham-Buller said rogue scientists had put the weapons in the hands
of terrorists who were now intent on attacking the West.

Her warning, following similar remarks by the Home Secretary and the
Metropolitan Police, is the starkest yet that fanatics already have Britain in
their sights.

Ms Manningham-Buller, speaking publicly for the first time since taking over as
director general of MI5 last October, said Al Qaeda was "the first truly global
threat".

Osama Bin Laden's terror group was still "capable of deadly terrorists attacks",
including suicide bombings, and nuclear, chemical or biological outrages.

And the risk of non-conventional weapons, such as "dirty bombs", being used was
"a realistic possibility". She added: "The threat from international terrorism
is with us for a good long time. If this is a war that can be won, it is not
going to be won soon."

The MI5 chief, who said it was simply a matter of time before a Western city was
targeted, also warned that there was a steady stream of people willing to become
terrorists. Since taking over at MI5, the new chief has tackled an alleged ricin
plot against Britain and ordered a ring of concrete protection to be placed
round the Houses of Parliament.

Ms Manningham-Buller, 54, is the second woman to head MI5 - which deals with
domestic intelligence - and oversees a GBP 100million counter-terrorism
campaign. She said that organisations such as MI5 would never be able to provide
a complete picture of the plans of terrorists.

She explained: "There was plenty of intelligence before September 11 that
something terrible was going to happen. Intelligence never tells you everything.
In this subject, when it's a global threat, it tends to be patchy and
incomplete."

About 150 new pieces of intelligence about possible threats were received at
MI5's terrorism analysis centre every week, she revealed. But the emergence of
terrorists working in a loose network and choosing soft targets made attacks
difficult to stop.

Last night Tony Blair's official spokesman said there was no specific threat to
Britain. He added: "We have to stay on alert but equally not be panicked into
over-reaction. If there is a specific threat people will be warned."

The Daily Express reported last month that British ports are installing
equipment to detect radioactive "dirty bomb" components stolen from Iraq's
nuclear facilities.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 18, 2003, Wednesday

OUR 999 TERROR;
 THUGS ATTACKING AMBULANCE CREWS FOR SYRINGES & DRUGS

BYLINE: MAURICE FITZMAURICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 306 words

HIGHLIGHT: CAMPAIGN: Eamon Carton and, left, the new poster


AMBULANCE crews are being targeted by gangs who are intent on stealing drugs and
syringes, paramedics warned yesterday.

At the launch of a poster campaign to highlight violent assaults on Northern
Ireland Ambulance Service (NIAS) staff, it emerged that one vehicle was even
almost hijacked by a gang looking for drugs.

Paramedic Michael Hughes told the Daily Mirror: "We are seeing attacks in the
past six months or so by people using hard drugs. There have been attacks where
they have been trying to get needles and syringes.

"That is a headache in Ballymena where there is already a heroin problem.

"But we're now seeing evidence in Belfast and elsewhere that heroin and crack
cocaine is becoming more prevalent.

"Given the size of Belfast that could become a real problem."

Mr Hughes also claimed there have been attacks where people are looking
exclusively for drugs.

He added: "An ambulance was almost hijacked on Shaw's Road in West Belfast a few
weeks ago when a gang of teenagers said they wanted drugs. They don't seem to
realise that we don't carry drugs."

Another paramedic told how he was headbutted by one man he was trying to help
during a call to West Belfast last year.

Eamonn Carton said: "We're going to try to save people's lives but at the back
of our minds is the fear we may be attacked."

The campaign will see hard-hitting "No Excuse" posters placed in various areas,
including pubs and clubs.

Liam McIvor, the NIAS Director of Operations, said: "We have to do something to
make people aware of the harm they are doing when they attack an ambulance or
paramedics."

Earlier this week NIAS chiefs demanded jail terms for thugs who attack
paramedics after it was revealed that assaults have risen in the last year by
128 per cent to 95.

m.fitzmaurice@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 18, 2003

MI5 BOSS: TERROR ATTACK IS CERTAIN

BYLINE: George Pascoe-Watson Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: IRAQ: THE AFTERMATH

LENGTH: 358 words


    Nuke or bio threat to Tube

    Parliament, Palace at risk

    BRITAIN'S spy boss last night sensationally warned that an al-Qa'ida
nuclear, biological or chemical attack on a Western city is INEVITABLE.

    MI5 supremo Eliza Manningham-Buller also made it clear the UK is high on the
target list.

    Ms Manningham-Buller, in charge of our homeland defence, declared: "We're
faced with a realistic possibility of a form of unconventional attack that could
include chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear.

    "It is only a matter of time before a crude version of a CBRN is launched on
a Western city."

    The MI5 boss confirmed al-Qa'ida is successfully recruiting suicide bombers
determined to cause carnage. Key London targets like Buckingham Palace, Tube
stations, the City and Parliament are all at risk.

    Ms Manningham-Buller admitted the war on global terror cannot be won for
years - if ever. She told defence workers in the capital: "Al- Qa'ida remains an
organisation capable of deadly terrorist attacks. The threat from international
terrorism is with us for a good long time.

    "If this is a war that can be won, it isn't going to be won soon. The supply
of potential terrorists among extreme elements is unlikely to diminish. Breaking
the link between terrorism and religious ideology is difficult."

    It is the first time Ms Manningham-Buller, 53, has publicly raised the alarm
about terrorists.

    She claimed nuclear scientists and germ warfare boffins who once worked for
the USSR or Iraq's Saddam Hussein have sold their evil skills to rogue states.

    These are believed to be plotting to supply waste from atomic power plants
which could make "dirty" bombs.

    MI5 agents are battling to expose UK terror cells before they can strike.

    They are trying to locate biological or chemical warfare labs in the UK.

    Fanatics capable of carrying out suicide attacks are also being identified.

    Ms Manningham-Buller only decided to go public with her warnings after
lengthy consideration.

    She was keen to avoid panicking the public -but was determined to send a
clear message to the nation to be on its guard.


LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The NorthEast

                                 June 18, 2003

MI5: Deadly terror attack -will happen'

LENGTH: 236 words

DATELINE: The North East


A biological chemical or nuclear terrorist attack on a Western city is "only a
matter of time" the head of MI5 said yesterday.

Eliza Manningham-Buller said: "We are faced with a realistic possibility of a
form of unconventional attack that could include chemical biological
radiological or nuclear."

The director-general of MI5 said intelligence suggested that "renegade
scientists" had given terrorist groups the information they needed to create
such weapons and that they would become more sophisticated.

But she added that conventional bombs and suicide bomb attacks remained their
preferred weapons.

"They (al Qaida) still remain an organisation capable of deadly terrorist
attacks she said.

The threat from international terrorism is with us for a good long time.

"If this is a war that can be won it is not going to be won soon.

"The supply of potential terrorists among extreme elements is unlikely to
diminish.

"Breaking the link between terrorism and religious ideology is difficult."

Ms Manningham-Buller was making her first on-the-record speech since taking on
her new job in October last year.

Since then she has been involved in countering the ricin plot and was involved a
review of vulnerable targets which led to a ring of concrete protection being
placed around the Houses of Parliament.

Britain was put on its second highest security alert last month.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 June 18, 2003

Mi5 Chief Warns It'S A Matter Of Time Before Terror Attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 6 1806WESTDP475mi5ch

LENGTH: 418 words


It is only a matter of time before al-Qaeda launches a devastating nuclear,
biological or chemical attack, head of MI5 Eliza Manningham-Buller said
yesterday.  And she warned Osama bin Laden's terrorist organisation is also
prepared to use suicide bomb attacks and other conventional weapons.

Her stark claims are the first time a senior intelligence service figure has
gone on the record to outline the high level of threat to Britain and other
Western nations.

She said the war on terror will not be won soon, if ever, and there is a
constant supply of potential terrorists among extreme elements.

About 150 new pieces of intelligence about possible threats are received at the
joint terrorism analysis centre at MI5 every single week.

In her first speech since becoming director-general of M15 last October, Ms
Manningham-Buller said renegade scientists had told al-Qaeda how to make crude
nuclear, biological or chemical weapons.

"We are faced with a realistic possibility of a form of unconventional attack
that could include chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear (CBRN).

"It is only a matter of time before a crude version of a CBRN is launched on a
Western city." Al Qaeda and related terror groups will become ever more
sophisticated, and the suicide bomb attacks in Saudi Arabia and Morocco recently
showed how deadly they were.

"The threat from international terrorism is with us for a good long time. If
this is a war that can be won, it is not going to be won soon. The supply of
potential terrorists among extreme elements is unlikely to diminish.

"Breaking the link between terrorism and religious ideology is difficult." Since
becoming director-general of the home security service, she was involved in
countering the ricin factory plot in North London late last year.

And she was involved last month in the review of vulnerable targets in London
which led to a ring of concrete protection being placed around the Houses of
Parliament.

Ms Manningham-Buller conceded Western security services were surprised by the
ambition of bin Laden's September 11 assault on the US.

"We were shocked by the sheer scale of the devastation, which was beyond our
imagination," she told the conference.

Tomorrow the Government will introduce a Commons Bill giving police powers to
set up cordons in the wake of a CBRN attack, take control of transport systems
and order mass evacuations.

A network of Civil Contingency Reaction forces will be in place.


LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       June 19, 2003, Thursday Edition 1

Police get new terror attack powers

BYLINE: By Jamie Diffley, The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 431 words


   Police are to be given more powers to deal with the aftermath of a major
terrorist attack or civil emergencies.

Government chiefs have drawn up a Civil Contingencies Bill to set out plans to
extend the scope of existing emergency legislation to deal with crises, ranging
from environmental spillages to an attack on the Internet.

Its publication follows a warning this week by the head of MI5, Eliza
Manningham-Buller, who said a terrorist attack on a major Western city using a
chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear "dirty" bomb was inevitable.

And today risk analyst Guy Dunn said Britain is the ninth most likely country to
suffer a terrorist attack in the next 12 months.

He said the UK, with its symbolic targets like the Houses of Parliament, its
large Islamic community and the continuing terrorist threat from Northern
Ireland, was more likely to be targeted than traditional hotspots like Algeria
or Kenya.

Existing emergency legislation is based on the 1920 Emergency Powers Act and the
1948 Civil Defence Act, drawn up to deal with an attack by the Soviet Union.

Although they already give police wide-ranging powers to take control of
services and commandeer buildings and equipment, the new Bill is intended to
clarify the legal position in the event of circumstances not envisaged when the
laws were drawn up.

The move comes after a number of initiatives to counter terrorism threats on
Tyneside. Earlier this month it was announced that a 40-bed smallpox clinic
would be built in the region with specialist staff trained to deal with anyone
struck down by the killer virus.

And health chiefs have already set up a regional Health Protection Agency in
Newcastle to help deal with emergencies. The unit, with 110 staff, is based in
Dean Street and will work closely with hospitals and the emergency services,
dealing with threats such as an anthrax attack or chemical spills.

Before the start of war with Iraq three Merlin helicopters touched down in the
heart of Newcastle to deploy dozens of SAS troops.

They were on a training exercise to see how quickly they could get to the region
if it were targeted by terrorists. The exercise saw the Merlins, each carrying
soldiers and chemical and biological warfare experts, land at the city's
heliport, near the Telewest Arena.

The publication of the draft Bill will be followed by consultation in Parliament
and with emergency planning officials.

It is expected to pave the way for a full Bill in the Queen's Speech setting out
the Government's programme in the next Parliamentary session.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 19, 2003, Thursday

ARMY TERROR ATTACK PLANS READY

BYLINE: DARA DEFAOITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 250 words

HIGHLIGHT: PREPARED: Lt General Mangan


IRELAND is "ready and able" to see off any terror attack, the head of the
Defence Forces said yesterday.

Chief of Staff Lt Gen Colm Mangan said: "I'm confident we can handle any
threat."

Ireland has upgraded its military capabilities since the September 11 terror
attacks on the US.

Speaking at the launch of the Defence Forces 2002 annual report in Dublin, Lt
Gen Mangan said: "Defence against terror is a safeguard which people prepare
for.

"When you talk about defence you identify the nature of the threat. Bomb
disposal equipment and anti-nuclear and biological warfare equipment has been
bought.

"During 2002 the Rangers Unit was reinforced and intelligence was also
improved."

But despite the strengthened military status, Ireland still has one of the
lowest defence budgets in the EU.

Lt Gen Mangan said: "Total expenditure for 2002 was g713million, nearly
g40million less than 2001."

It's believed the cancellation of a helicopter contract with US company Sikorsky
contributed to the underspending.

However, he stressed that the threat of international terrorism to Ireland was
"low compared to other countries".

Meanwhile, Lt Gen Mangan said allegations that soldiers were involved in a sex-
for-sale scandal in Eritrea, exposed in this paper last week, "would be looked
into".

He said: "We are actively pursuing this matter. If there is any evidence of
wrongdoing emerging from this matter then we will proceed against it in a
forceful manner."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 20, 2003, Friday

Plan to make BBC help after terrorist attack is dropped

BYLINE: Richard Ford and Gary Duncan

SECTION: Home news; 13

LENGTH: 336 words


MINISTERS have abandoned plans to force the BBC and other broadcasters to
co-operate with the authorities during a national emergency or terrorist attack.

They have also backed away from giving the Chancellor of the Exchequer sweeping
powers to control the City, including putting dealing on hold or even closing
the markets. These proposals were omitted after opposition from the City and
broadcasters to measures published yesterday to overhaul laws dealing with
national emergencies.

The measures would revise 80-year-old emergency powers and give the Government
power to tackle incidents ranging from foot-and-mouth disease to flooding. The
Government would be able to introduce emergency powers without prior
parliamentary approval and for the first time the authorities would have the
power to declare a regional state of emergency.

The measures, set out yesterday in a draft Civil Contingencies Bill, extend the
scope of what constitutes an emergency to include crises affecting national
security, human welfare, the environment and "political, administrative or
economic stability".

The draft Bill proposes the creation of a regional civil protection empire based
on the ten government regions in addition to 43 local units based on existing
police force areas. The regional tier would comprise a number of core
organisations, such as the emergency services, local authorities and hospitals,
that would have to provide civil protection.

A secondary list of organisations, such as gas and water suppliers,
telecommunications operators, railways and airport operators, would have to
co-operate and share information in the event of an emergency. A plan to include
the BBC in this list was dropped after discussions with the corporation.

The climbdown over the City powers comes after the financial industry challenged
the Treasury's suggestion that it should have wide power in an emergency. The
Investment Management Association said the ideas had been based on "thin
analysis".


LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 20, 2003, Friday

Israeli responses to terrorist attacks

SECTION: Features; 23

LENGTH: 206 words


From Mr Eli Tabori

Sir, No ceasefires with Hamas and other terror groups are of any value.
Throughout each of the past ceasefires Hamas leaders continued to support the
goals of the group's original charter, that is, the creation, through
religiously sanctioned violence, of an Islamic state in all of Palestine.

The only way to advance the chance for peace is, first, by defeating the
terrorist regime. The training camps must be shut down; the weapons must be
seized; the terrorists must be apprehended and brought to trial; and the areas
controlled by the Palestinian Authority must be completely demilitarised. These
actions must be followed by a lengthy period in which the Palestinian
Authority's culture of hatred is stamped out.

The only long-term hope for Middle East peace lies in permanently weaning the
Palestinians off their diet of hatred. Terrorists, whether led by bin Laden or
Arafat, should be fought and defeated, not appeased with offers of statehood.

Sending a message that terrorism pays is the worst possible move at a time when
terrorists are threatening America, Israel, and the entire free world.

Yours sincerely,

ELI TABORI,

65 Boulevard Lannes, Paris 75116.

June 17.


LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 20, 2003, Friday

Israeli responses to terrorist attacks

SECTION: Features; 23

LENGTH: 106 words


From Mr Ron Footer

Sir, I could not agree more with Mr Michael Tatham (letter, June 17). The
Israeli action will make it certain that the present misery will intensify.

Retaliation is exactly what the suicide bombers want. So by responding violently
the Israelis are playing right into their hands.

Israel should take precautions to protect its citizens from them and imprison
them as criminals when they are caught. But do not give them the satisfaction of
seeing the escalation of violence.

Yours sincerely,

RON FOOTER,

15 East Woodside,

Bexley, Kent DA5 3PG.

ron.footer@btinternet.com

June 17.


LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 20, 2003, Friday

Israeli responses to terrorist attacks

SECTION: Features; 23

LENGTH: 49 words


From Ms Ruth Gateley

Sir, A civilised country faced with terrorists seeks to arrest and prosecute
them.

Israel, by contrast, blows them up, along with any innocent bystanders.

Yours sincerely,

RUTH GATELEY,

Flat 6,

5 Wharf Close,

Manchester M1 2WE.

June 17.


LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                                 June 20, 2003

Not prepared for terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 466 words


SWINDON is not adequately prepared for a terrorist attack according to the
leader of its own council.

Coun Mike Bawden (Con Old Town and Lawns) says a lack of Government funding and
the winding down of emergency services over the past decade has left Swindon
vulnerable to attack.

Under new laws civic chiefs have been told to draw up fresh plans for a mass
evacuation in case of terrorist attack. The Government has announced a shake-up
of legislation dating back to the 1920s to prepare communities for
post-September 11 attacks. The Civil Contingencies Bill is designed to tackle
the widespread fear that local authorities have a Dad's Army attitude towards
civil defence.

Coun Bawden said: "If the Government wants us to update our plans and emergency
procedures then we will need the money to do the job. In all honesty Swindon is
not prepared for any attack.

"Civil defence and emergency services have been run down in the past 10 years
and they now need winding up. Either the Government gives us the money or it
will ultimately have to be funded through a rise in council tax."

All local councils ' as well as police forces fire authorities and ambulance
trusts ' will be designated as Category 1 responders in case of an attack.

In addition to the £19m provided annually for emergency planning an extra £330m
over three years has been available to fund counter-terrorism projects according
to cabinet minister Douglas Alexander.

But this year Swindon Council has been given only £71 355 for emergency planning
' a rise of just £386 or 0.54 per cent on last year.

The Bill will impose a new duty on councils to ensure all residents are told of
the evacuation plans in place in case of contamination or poisoning. And
householders not in the immediate vicinity of an attack will be told to 'go in
stay in and tune in' for further advice.

In March this year the council's emergency planning officer Sam Weller bought a
batch of public information videos that inform children of what to do in the
event of a chemical spillage with the same principles being applied with a
terrorist attack in the UK in the light of the war on Iraq.

Swindon's 541-bed Great Western Hospital was designated as one of 14 in the
country to deal with casualties during the recent Gulf conflict. Local
government emergency planners create strategies to deal with the threat of
natural disasters along with nuclear biological and radioactive attacks. Among
examples of 'risk reductions' that the Government urges local authorities to
adopt are better design of buildings use of CCTV cameras and strengthened doors
and windows.

This week MI5 warned it was only a matter of time before terrorists launched a
chemical biological or nuclear attack on a Western city.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                 June 20, 2003

Safe haven after terror attacks

LENGTH: 312 words


A BUSINESSMAN today spoke of his deal to provide the country with terrorist
attack shelters and said: "I just hope they are never used."

Richard Bailey's inflatable decontamination units shelter people from the
effects of chemical or biological incidents.

They are now being supplied to the government and will be passed on to most
local councils across Britain as contingency plans are stepped up.

News of the deal came just days after Eliza Manningham-Buller head of MI5 warned
that a terrorist attack on a major Western city using a chemical biological
radiological or nuclear bomb was inevitable.

The government unveiled plans to strengthen the power of authorities to deal
with the aftermath of an attack. The use of Mr Bailey's products form part of
this scheme. Mr Bailey from Hurst Green in the Ribble Valley is the chief
executive of Huddersfield-based Aire Group and is also involved in the design of
the products.

The company's inflatable shelters were used in the aftermath of the September 11
atrocity and in Kosovo to house refugees and Nato troops.

They are also a familiar sight closer to home as all the emergency services in
Lancashire use them.

Mr Bailey echoing the head of M15 said: "I think now it is not a case of if but
when for when a terrorist attack will happen.

"I hope they never have to be used but the British government is buying the best
products -- not just mine but the other items they are buying.

"We have been helping the government for the past 24 months and now we will be
servicing the whole of Great Britain.

"Business is pretty good at the moment. I am a Lancashire lad out in the world
and I just try and do my best."

Cabinet Office Minister Douglas Alexander added: "The Government is committed to
ensuring the best possible civil contingency framework exists in the UK."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             June 23, 2003, Monday

WOMAN IN GUN ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: MARK COWAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 266 words


A CITY woman whose car was peppered with bullets in a terrifying drive-by
shooting escaped serious injury by inches, police said today. The 44-year-old
unnamed victim ducked for cover as four bullets smashed through her car
windscreen and whizzed past her body.

Detectives said the completely innocent victim was 'extremely fortunate' to
escape unharmed and could have been a victim of mistaken identity.

She was in Unett Street, Hockley, on Saturday, when the occupants of a dark
coloured hatchback opened fire with a pistol. Several shots penetrated the car.

The weekend incident was the third in the residential area since April.

Det Insp Tim Bacon, from Steelhouse Lane CID, said he had no idea why the woman
was targeted.

'The bullets were fired from a very short distance away and passed within inches
of her body,' he said.

'We don't believe she knew the offenders and we don't know why they would want
to target her.'

Following this latest incident, a number of bullets were recovered from the car
and were today being examined by forensics experts.

Last month a group of men were fired upon as they walked along Great Hampton
Row. A pistol was later found dumped in bushes in a nearby park.

A 34-year-old Surrey father was blasted twice in the legs in a separate botched
robbery as he stood chatting to friends in Unett Street.

'We are aware of the increase in occurrences of this nature in this area and it
is something we will look to tackle with policing strategies,' he added.

Anyone with information should ring police on 0845 113 5000.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 24, 2003, Tuesday

FOUR TO BE CHARGED WITH MURDER OVER TERROR ATTACK IN MOMBASA THAT LEFT 13 DEAD

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 120 words


KENYA: The government plans to charge four people with murder in connection with
a terrorist attack in Mombasa in November last year, officials said yesterday.

Ten Kenyans and three Israelis were killed when a car bomb exploded outside the
Paradise Hotel in the resort. Three of the four suspects have been linked to a
man suspected of being Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, an alleged al-Qa'ida operative
and leading suspect in the attack and the 1998 bombing of the US embassy in
Nairobi. The suspects were charged in March with harbouring an illegal alien,
thought to be Mr Mohammed, but new evidence has led to the murder charges.The
announcement comes amid renewed warnings of a terrorist attack in Kenya.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Wigan Evening Post

                                 June 24, 2003

Driver in car attack terror

SOURCE: Wigan Evening Post

LENGTH: 264 words


A motorist was punched in the face, threatened with a knife and had his car
vandalised? for telling an arrogant jaywalker to get out of the way.

The 41-year-old from Ince had driven to the end of Swan Lane, Hindley Green, but
was prevented from turning right into Atherton Road by one of a group of youths
congregating at the junction.

When he asked the youth to move, the pedestrian walked over to his Volkswagen
Golf and gave it a kick, putting a dent in the side.

Angered, the driver got out to remonstrate, and at this point a glass cider
bottle was hurled from the group, smashing his car's windscreen.

The youth then punched the man in the face and produced a knife, firstly
threatening him with it and then using it in an attempt to rip the vehicle's
tyres.

Eventually the motorist was allowed to go on his way and police were called to
the scene. The force helicopter was mobilised to track down suspects but as yet
there have been no arrests.

The victim received treatment to a gashed mouth.

Police today appealed for witnesses to the attack, which happened at 7.35pm on
Friday, and issued a description of the attacker.

He is said to be white, 5ft 10-11in, in his late teens with short dark cropped
hair and he was wearing an eyebrow ring.

Sgt Dave Lamb of Wigan and Leigh's operational policing unit said: This was a
vicious and disturbing attack on a motorist just trying to go about his
business.

We would like to speak to anyone who witnessed this incident who we have not
already spoken to, and to anyone else who knows who is responsible.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 June 25, 2003

PASS book prepares us for terror attacks

BYLINE: Newsdesk

LENGTH: 455 words


The warning by the head of MI5 that the exploding of a "dirty bomb" is
inevitable has struck a chord with a Bexleyheath teacher.

Margaret Dwan of Sunland Avenue Bexleyheath who teaches at Lessness Heath
Primary School Erith has watched concern grow worldwide about a terrorist attack
in which biological or nuclear material is released.

And she waited for the authorities to put out some official advice on anything
ordinary people could do to help themselves if that horror scenario came true.

So when nothing appeared she decided to take matters into her own hands and has
produced her own booklet the PASSbook.

PASS stands for Prepare Assess Strategise Survive. She describes the booklet as
"strategies for civilian survival in the event of natural disasters and
terrorism".

She told News Shopper: "As a teacher my philosophy is to educate and I
personally wanted answers on what to do if something happen." She called
Government departments and logged on to a variety of websites but still could
not find any easy-to-follow advice. That was when she decided to do it for
herself.

Last week's speech by spy chief Eliza Manningham-Buller in which she said a
biological or nuclear terrorist incident was a realistic possibility has only
reinforced Miss Dwan's view people need clear and easy-to-follow advice.

She says just because a fanatic has not yet managed to launch an unconventional
attack does not mean to say that one will not. "I have covered both natural and
manmade disasters in my booklet as I believe the principles of survival are the
same be prepared." The booklet takes people through basic preparations such as
knowing where to switch off services such as electricity putting important
papers together in a protective container and having an escape plan of your
house.

It describes how to put together an emergency kit and then goes on to advise on
how to react to specific situations such as severe storms and flooding as well
as a variety of terrorist attacks.

The booklet also contains a checklist for use if you have to evacuate your home
a notice to post on your empty home with details of where you have gone and who
is with you.

New Zealander Miss Dwan has paid to have 1 000 booklets printed and has
copyrighted it.

Coincidentally business organisation London First has just published Expect the
Unexpected a book and CD advising companies on how to make sure their business
survives a terrorist attack.

l The PASSbook costs £1 including postage and packing. It is available from PO
Box 169 Bexleyheath Kent DA6 8WA. Cheques or postal orders should be made
payable to Manttan Enterprises. The first 50 orders received will get their
booklet for free.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 June 27, 2003

Another US soldier killed in Iraq ambush;
TERROR UPDATE: NEW ATTACKS ON ALLIES

BYLINE: Valentine Low

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 119 words


ANOTHER US soldier has been killed and two have been kidnapped in the escalating
guerrilla war against the coalition forces in Iraq, it is reported today.

With coalition troops now coming under daily attack from Saddam diehards, the
latest ambush of American forces in Kusah, south of Baghdad, left one soldier
dead and nine injured.

The Americans are also scouring the desert for two soldiers who were apparently
seized from an observation post north of the capital.

Meanwhile, the Muslim leader of the town of Majar al Kabir has ordered local
people not to take up arms against the British over the gun battle on Tuesday
that killed six Royal Military policemen and left four locals dead.


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 June 27, 2003

Cleric 'behind terror attacks';

SECTION:  Pg. 2

LENGTH: 66 words


PROMINENT Indonesian Muslim cleric Abu Bakar Bashir approved church bomb attacks
and also called a meeting to plan the assassination of President Megawati
Sukarnoputri, a Malaysian militant told a court yesterday.

Faiz bin Abu Bakar Bafana alleged that the cleric had approved a series of
Christmas Eve bombings across Indonesia in 2000 that killed 19 people and
wounded scores more.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003

               Copyright 2003 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 June 27, 2003

Human rights groups attack Canberra over draconian anti-terror law;

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 211 words


AUSTRALIA'S human rights campaigners blasted a new anti-terrorism law yesterday,
after the country's main spy agency gained the power to hold anyone aged 16 and
over for up to a week without charge if they are suspected of knowing about
terrorist activities.

Parliament passed the new powers for the Australian Security Intelligence
Organisation (ASIO) late on Wednesday after the government watered down a
proposal that critics said would have created a draconian secret police.

A proposed law was unveiled after the September 11 2001, attacks on the United
States, but it has taken the conservative government over a year to negotiate
with opposition parties, which hold the balance of power in the senate upper
house.

Human rights groups and minor opposition parties criticised the Labour Party for
agreeing to a Bill which, they argue, will limit civil liberties and allow ASIO
to detain people without having to give a reason or justification.

To get the law passed, the government agreed to raise the age at which people
could be arrested on suspicion that they may know of a terrorist act to 16 from
14 years.

Then the government agreed that anyone held for seven days could only be
detained further if new information came to light.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2003

               Copyright 2003 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                 June 28, 2003

Boy,15, in gun terror attack

BYLINE: Marc Horne

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 230 words


An Aberdeen schoolboy was left bleeding after an airgun attack.  The 15-year-old
was chased by two youths on a motorbike before being shot.

The incident took place outside Northfield Academy during morning interval.

The youngster was pursued by the bikers, who were both wearing helmets, before
being shot in the thumb with an air pistol.

The attackers then drove off from the academy playing fields.

The teenager was taken to Aberdeen Royal infirmary where he needed an operation
to remove the pellet.

"His thumb was pouring with blood and he was getting dizzy," said the boy's
mother.

"He got stitches and may have to go to physiotherapy because the ligaments were
badly damaged." The parent, who did not want to be named, added: "He was in
quite a state - we all were - because the pellet could have gone in his eye."
"He has been afraid to go to school since and I won't let him out of the house
alone." PC Keith Mulloy who is based at Northfield Academy said: "I would appeal
for anyone who was on the Northfield playing fields at that time and saw anyone
with an air pistol to get in touch with us." "Air pistols can be very dangerous
and I would urge parents not to allow children to use without their supervision
as accidents can easily occur." Anyone with information should call Grampian
Police on (012240 386000 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2003 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 June 30, 2003

Ring of Steel bolstered to combat terror attacks from boats on Thames

BYLINE: Graham Keeley

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 425 words


A HUGE increase in the Ring of Steel around the City will include guarding
against terrorist strikes from boats on the Thames, the Evening Standard has
learned.

The number of hidden security cameras guarding the Square Mile is to rise from
60 to 96 in the next two months.

In the wake of recent Islamic terrorist attacks on American ships in the Gulf
and the Real IRA bombing of Hammersmith Bridge, the £1 million scheme will also
boost the number of cameras along the river.

At present there are only three cameras between Blackfriars and Tower Bridge,
despite the fact the river is one of the busiest inland waterways in Europe.

Police are concerned terrorists could exploit this route to strike at the heart
of the City, then escape in motor launches. Realising this weakness in the Ring
of Steel, police are to increase the number of riverside cameras in the area to
16.

These will be to stop attacks on so-called "picture postcard" targets like the
Tower of London, the Globe Theatre, Custom House and city offices.

Equally at risk, according to security service and antiterrorist police
assessments, are the Millennium Bridge, and Tower, Blackfriars and Southwark
bridges.

Elsewhere, more cameras will be moved to parts of the City which have become
popular for socialising, as a response to terrorist attacks on "soft targets" -
such as the Bali nightclub bombing and the car bomb attack outside the BBC
television centre - aimed at killing the highest number of civilians.

More cameras are to be situated around Smithfield Market, Liverpool Street
station and Ludgate Circus.

The hi-tech scheme will be carried out by City of London police with Home Office
funding granted in the wake of the September 11 atrocity.

As well as vehicle recognition technology to pick out car number plates of known
criminals, police hope to introduce facial recognition cameras.

The move comes as police revealed the City is still the prime target in London
for Irish republican or Islamic terrorists as any bomb outrage could seriously
damage the British economy. The Square Mile alone produces six per cent of the
gross national product.

Chief Superintendent Alex Robertson, head of the City police antiterrorist
operation, said: "The Ring of Steel has been greatly strengthened but we
realised that though almost all the roads in the City are covered by cameras,
the banks and bridges of the Thames are not."

Sources say that as yet no specific terrorist threat has been made in relation
to the river.


LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 June 30, 2003

Dog Of War That Will Sink Terrorist Attacks

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 9 3006WESTDP314dogof

LENGTH: 484 words


West researchers are in the forefront of the fight against terrorism with a
brand new underwater detection system designed to protect harbours and ships
from attack, it was revealed yesterday.  The sophisticated James Bond-style
sonar has been developed by Qinetiq, the former Ministry of Defence Evaluation
and Research Agency, at its base near Weymouth, Dorset.

While thousands of families have been enjoying the innocent delights of the
famous seaside resort, with its old-world helter skelter and swing boats, just a
short distance away scientists have developed a world-beating device with a
1billion market potential.

The system is named Cerberus after the three-headed dog which, according to
Greek legend, guards the entrance to Hell.

Qinetiq says the modern watchdog will guard against incidents such as al-Qaeda's
explosive-laden speedboat attack on the destroyer USS Cole.

The October 2000 strike, in waters off Yemen, claimed the lives of 17 American
sailors.

And, as revealed in the Western Daily Press in March, the Royal Navy was on
constant alert for suicide bombers in speedboats during the Iraq conflict.

Qinetiq believes the high definition system has several advantages over its
competitors.

"The attack on the USS Cole emphasised the threat posed to military vessels and
harbours from small boats, divers and underwater vehicles," a spokesman said
yesterday.

"Navies around the world are having to address this threat and Cerberus can play
a very important role in providing the protection they are looking for." As well
as protecting ships, the device could guard any installation which projects into
the sea, including oil platforms and nuclear power stations.

The device, nicknamed the Blue Easter Egg by scientists because of its size and
shape, can be slung from the side of vessels, or a number can be attached to the
seabed in a "cordon" at a harbour mouth.

Its performance differs from the competition because it can classify targets,
such as small boats, and differentiate between a sealion and a human diver.

The system has a range of 700 metres and can also broadcast a high-pitch
acoustic signal to make divers feel "very uncomfortable" and force them to
surface. The range can be extended to one kilometre with a carefully devised
cordon.

Jon Riddle, of Qinetiq said: "The threat posed to shipping and infrastructure by
divers is not a new one. The sinking of HMS Valiant and HMS Queen Elizabeth in
Alexandria harbour in 1941 by six Italian divers put back the Allies' efforts in
the Mediterranean by as much as nine months.

"Today a single terrorist diver equipped with a low-cost and low-tech payload
could cause a huge loss of life and significant military or economic disruption.

"Cerberus works automatically, unobtrusively and vitally, provides the range
necessary to allow time to deal with any potential threat."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Lancashire Evening Post

                                  July 1, 2003

Muggers use weapons in terror attacks

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post

LENGTH: 316 words


Two people were robbed in separate street attacks close in Preston, it emerged
today.

Thugs armed with knives and broken glass targeted a pensioner and a middle-aged
man who were walking with friends.

Today, detectives said they were not linking the two incidents which left their
victims terrified.

In the first attack, a man apologised to a pensioner before pulling out a broken
bottle and robbing him as he took a stroll through Avenham Park at 9pm on
Sunday.

The 67-year-old man was with a female friend at the entrance to Avenham Park, on
Ribblesdale Place, when the thug approached him, produced the weapon, and said:
I'm sorry, give me your money.

The terrified man handed over £40 cash to the offender who was white, 5ft 9ins,
very pale and thin, with short light hair. He was wearing a white and pale blue
top and white and pale blue Nike trainers. Hours later, a man pulled a knife on
a woman when she refused to give him her handbag.

The 53-year-old was walking along New Hall Lane with two friends in the early
hours of Monday morning when a thug came up behind her grabbed her handbag.

When she refused to let go, he pulled out a six-inch kitchen knife and
threatened her.

She surrendered her handbag and the man ran off with a blue Nokia mobile phone,
a make-up bag, £23 cash and a set of house keys.

The attack took place at the junction of Scotforth Road at 1.30am.

The suspect was white, 5ft 10in and 18. He wore a light grey or blue hooded
sweatshirt.

DS Peter Yates from Preston CID, said: It's clearly terrifying for people faced
with a weapon and my advice would be, in those circumstances, to do as people
demand.

Property, however valuable or however sentimental, can always be replaced.

The Evening Post led a campaign to Make Our Parks Safe last year following a
number of attacks and incidents in the city's green spaces.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  July 3, 2003

'Be prepared' call to business over terror attack nightmare

BYLINE: RAYMOND MGADZAH

SECTION: A; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1046 words


IT WOULD be a nightmare come true. A terrorist bomb blast rips through the City
of London, perhaps killing and maiming thousands, causing billions of pounds of
damage to property and compounding the financial losses by disrupting business
activity. But this would not be a conventional terror attack. Chemical,
biological, radiological or nuclear (CBRN) material may have been used in a
dirty bomb to contaminate the area.

Today, the possibility of such an attack cannot be ruled out. Business is being
urged to be prepared.

That was the sobering message delivered to business executives by a CBRN weapons
expert at a recent London conference on business resilience in the face of major
crisis, including a terror assault.

According to a survey, only one in four businesses has effective plans in place
to deal with major disruption such as a catastrophic bombing.

Laurence Barnes, immediate past director of CBRN procurement at the Ministry of
Defence and a former chairman of Nato's CBRN strategy planning group, told the
conference: "This is an added dimension of risk that you have to manage.

There has been a paradigm shift in how we regard CBRN. We now accept CBRN
terrorism is a possibility.

How concerned should business be? We don't want scaremongering but there is no
room for complacency on this subject."

In London and throughout the country, office blocks have been prepared that will
offer businesses alternative space to ensure they continue to operate if a
terror attack disrupts operations at their usual premises. In the wake of the 11
September terrorist attacks on the US and spurred by advice from the Home
Office, the Financial Services Authority and the Government's London Resilience
Team, many businesses in the capital are taking action.

A London Resilience spokesman says: "There has been considerable activity to
promote the need for businesses to have continuity plans in place and to
regularly test them. After 30 years of terrorism, London's key organisations and
major businesses have tried-and-tested arrangements and a high level of
preparedness against conventional major incidents. Considerable work is being
done to ensure that such a level of preparedness is in place to handle any
catastrophic incident."

SPECIALIST companies such as Schlumberger-Sema, SunGard Availability Services
and ICM Recovery Services say business is on the up. ICM operations director
Mike Osborne says: "A decade ago, quality was the buzzword. Today it's 'have you
got business continuity?'."

Sungard managing director Keith Tilley says: "Almost all large businesses, many
medium businesses and an increasing number of small businesses are putting in
place measures to allow their organisations to continue to operate after
disruption. Contingency planning is now viewed as a cost of doing business."

Osborne says a contract with his company will provide a service costing 8% of
what it would if a business bought a building and equipped it with IT.

Some businesses are spending millions a year protecting all elements of their
operations while a medium-sized firm may spend about 50,000 to buy some office
recovery, dealer positions and IT support. Faced with the alternative of
business failure, many companies are stumping up.

SunGard customer Royal & SunAlliance's group risk manager Julia Graham says: "We
undertake constant review and development of our business continuity management
approach, do risk updates, business continuity plan reviews, updates and
testing, and communicating of specifics and issuing advice on, for instance,
biochemical threats. The cost is minimal - this is embedded in our company as
part of good management practice."

Osborne warns that a high level of awareness of the terror threat must not be
confused with an equally high level of preparedness. He says: "Business is still
very immature in terms of having a viable, fully tested continuity plan.

There is a difference between awareness and having something in place that will
work in the event of a major crisis."

Rob Fountain, chief executive officer of Survive, the user group of staff
responsible for the security and business continuity of multinationals and
public sector bodies, agrees. "It's a split community.

Half the businesses from our surveys have some form of reasonably high-level
business continuity plan in place. Most of the rest have a limited amount of
disaster recovery planning," he says.

"A lot of companies bury their heads in the sand and hope if it comes to the
worst they will find a way round it, or that if there is a problem the police
and local authorities will deal with it. But none of these organisations is in
business to protect the reputation, the assets and the very existence of your
business."

Putting disaster recovery to the test

IN a Docklands building containing rows of empty chairs and desks with phones
and blank dealing screens, a senior manager for a major multinational with its
head office in the City says: "I've just been testing the effectiveness of our
recovery procedures. We test our disaster recovery twice a year.

"When we first started out, we were looking at it from an IT point of view but
then we realised that it is all aspects of a business that are at stake.

Our business continuity has now expanded to take account of all the needs of our
business. If you don't test, there is a very good chance that you won't survive.

Every test we do throws up changes that need to be made which we were not aware
of."

Nick Chown, deputy chairman of the Association of Insurance and Risk Managers in
Industry and Commerce, says: "If you haven't tested your plan, you don't know
whether it will work.

Testing is absolutely vital. A terrorist attack could be a life or death
situation for your business. Not having a robust, tested business continuity
plan and not having adequate terrorist insurance cover could seriously affect
your business's chances of survival.

"And you need to ensure that the critical suppliers of products and services to
your business also have adequate, tested plans, particularly if you are reliant
on one or a small number of suppliers for a product or service that is critical
to your business."

END

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                                  July 3, 2003

Terror attacks insurance hike sinks company

SECTION: News; Business; Jobs; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 310 words


Manning Roofing, of Aspen Way, has been forced to close its doors with the loss
of eight jobs.  "We took the decision to shut while we could afford to shut,"
said Lee Manning, who has worked at the firm for the past five years.

Manning Roofing is just one of many South Devon firms to feel the pressure of
extra insurance costs and regulations since the attacks on New York and
Washington on September 11, 2001. The growth of the compensation culture has
also led to increased costs.

Turnover at many firms has been hit and companies have found it difficult to
recoup their losses. Mr Manning estimated that the closure will mean a loss of
£50,000 to £60,000 to the local community in terms of unplaced orders.

But their hands were forced by the swingeing increase in public liability
insurance premiums .

Two years ago the firm had to pay £8,000, but last year the figure had
multiplied five times.

This year Manning Roofing were being asked to find between £55,000 and £60,000,
something they just couldn't afford.

"We are very upset," Mr Manning said.

"My father, Allan Manning, has been a roofer for 30 years. The problems have
arisen because of the small number of insurance companies now offering cover and
the increase in the "no win no fee" offers, where people can take legal action
without paying up front. His feelings and sympathies lay with suppliers and
employees. Gordon Oliver, president of the South Devon Chamber of Trade, has
also called for a halt to the number of new regulations.

"There is extreme disquiet about the level of bureaucracy being imposed on
business," he said.

"Thousands of new regulations have arrived in the last four to five years." Mr
Oliver warned that the country was following the same route as Germany which was
now suffering from severe economic problems, and was regarded as an economic
basket case.


LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2003 Herald Express (Torquay)

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Lancashire Evening Post

                                  July 3, 2003

Moment of terror in gang raid attack

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post

LENGTH: 587 words


A vicious gang battered a shopkeeper in front of his distraught children for
just £300.

The ferocity of the attack on Bipin Chawda was caught on the shop's CCTV
cameras.

They clearly show his terrified children looking on as thugs Wayne Burton, Alfie
Bryan, and Terence Buchanan kick and punch him while he is on the floor.

Now two of the men are beginning 12-year jail terms while the third, also
convicted, is in custody awaiting sentence.

The men burst into the newsagents store in Miller Road, Ribbleton, Preston,
armed with a gun and a cosh.

When Mr Chawda tried to protect his family, he was pistol-whipped and attacked
by the gang. They escaped with just £300.

The ordeal began on January 13 at around 7pm as Mr Chawda and his wife worked in
the shop while their two young sons played together.

A masked gang burst through the door and demanded cash from the till.

One of the men, later identified as Burton of no fixed address, held the gun to
Mrs Chawda's head.

When her husband jumped to protect her, he was pistol-whipped, then attacked by
the cosh-wielding gang member, later identified as Bryan, of Lauderdale Street,
Broadgate, Preston.

Mr Chawda was battered into a corner as his wife screamed for help and his
terrified children cowered away from the violent thugs.

The third gang member Buchanan, of Belmont Avenue, Ribbleton, Preston, guarded
the door. At first, he played no part in the attack but later started to kick
the shop owner.

Police were called by brave 10-year-old Dhrmool Chawda, the eldest of the two
sons.

Detectives cracked the crime after discovering documents for the escape car,
which one of the bungling robbers left at the scene.

Within two hours, the car had been tracked down by DC Oliver Johnson.

The men were arrested and initially denied everything.

But a series of forensic tests on their clothes revealed they were spattered
with Mr Chawda's blood.

Faced with overwhelming police evidence, the gang members admitted their guilt.

Burton, 35, and Bryan, 37, pleaded guilty to charges of robbery and possession
of an imitation firearm with intent to cause fear of violence. They were both
jailed for 12 years.

Their accomplice Buchanan, 37, has pleaded guilty to similar offences and will
be sentenced later this month.

Both Bryan and Burton have 'substantial records of violence and theft. Buchanan
also has a string of criminal convictions.

The Chawda family today spoke of the attack through a statement issued by their
family liaison officer, PC Julian Andrews.

They said: We are satisfied with the sentences issued against these men.

At the time of the attack we were all very badly affected, but with help from
the Police Victim Support and the continued goodwill and support of our
customers and the community including, our community support worker Ishwer
Tailor, we are back on an even keel.

We know a lot of police time and effort went into finding the offenders. The
service we received from Preston Police was excellent.

We are very grateful, and the experience has given us a lot of confidence in
them.

Our customers have continued to support us and their kind words have been a
great encouragement to us.

Det Sgt Ingham said: We welcome the severe sentences as they reflect the
horrific, cowardly and unprovoked nature of this attack on a defenceless man in
full view of his young children.

We hope that this sort of sentence will deter others from committing acts of
wanton violence.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             July 3, 2003, Thursday

M57 BRICK ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 85 words


AN ORRELL Park couple have told of their terror as youngsters hurled a brick at
their van on a motorway, shattering the windscreen.

Irene and John Spence from Chatsworth Avenue were travelling along the M57 to St
Helens last Thursday when a teenager at the side of the motorway threw the
brick.

Shards of glass were sprayed into the front seats but no-one was injured.

Mrs Spence warned: "If we were going any faster, it would have gone straight
through the windscreen and I would be dead."

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                              July 4, 2003, Friday

CITY FAMILY'S SHOTGUN ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: SIMON DUDMAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 248 words


A FAMILY has been deliberately targeted by a gunman who fired shots through the
front window of their home in Coventry.

The terrifying attack happened at 11.30pm in Strathmore Avenue, Lower Stoke.

No-one was hurt in the drama but two adults and two children were in the house
at the time.

Police said someone could have been killed.

The front window was smashed and pellets from the double-barrelled shotgun -
possibly a sawn-off - were embedded in the walls of the front room.

Scenes of crime and forensic officers were this afternoon carrying out
investigations at the scene.The family has been moved to another address.

Det Con James Hempstock said it was a targeted attack on the family.

He said: "The incident had the potential to be fatal.

"There was a net curtain up and it was dark, so they had no way of knowing if
someone was in the room or not. This is particularly worrying as there are
children at the address.

"We believe that this was an incident related to the occupants for whatever
reason. It's not random, and people should not be unduly worried.

"We would like to hear from anybody who saw anybody, or a vehicle, acting
suspiciously in the vicinity around the time of the incident."

Police are at this stage not linking the incident with the fatal shooting of
city boxing trainer Joe Montague last month which police also believe was a
deliberate attack.

Anyone with information is asked to contact police on 0845 1135000.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              July 4, 2003, Friday

Public to join in UK-US terror attack exercise

BYLINE: Richard Ford and Stewart Tendler

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 377 words


BRITAIN and America are to stage a joint counter-terrorism exercise on both
sides of the Atlantic as part of a government drive towards greater public
involvement.

David Blunkett has ordered officials to adopt the American model of involving
the public and end the secrecy surrounding civil defence preparations. He
believes the British public is mature enough to understand the risks and
appreciate the need for emergency action which could involve them.

The simulated terrorist attack, for which planning has yet to begin, is expected
to take place in 2005. It will involve "participation at a senior level on both
sides of the Atlantic", Mr Blunkett said.

Members of the public will play a role in the event, which is intended to ensure
that the British and US authorities are fully prepared for a terrorist attack,
including the possibility of a simultaneous strike on both countries.

A separate counter-terrorist exercise on the London Underground at Bank station
in the City of London is scheduled to be held in September. The exercise, which
was postponed earlier this year, is to be widened to include the health service
as well as emergency rescue services.

More than 400 personnel, including fire, ambulance and police, were to take part
in a five-hour simulated biological attack at Bank in March, but the exercise
was delayed due to the Iraq crisis.

The Home Office also added new material to its website which gives advice to the
public on terrorism. The site -www.homeoffice.gov.uk/terrorism -reveals that
recent exercises in Britain have simulated terrorist use of nuclear devices,
hijackings, attacks on off-shore oil wells and ships, and chemical and
biological strikes.

There are now three major exercises each year led by police in which emergency
services deal with a simulated incident on the ground rather than simply as a
desk-top exercise. In addition there are 15 paper and computer generated
exercises annually.

"Exercises are essential to our work on counter-terrorism." Mr Blunkett said.

"They allow us to test systems thoroughly, train frontline responders and
highlight vulnerabilities. Our exercise programme leads the way in counter-
terrorist planning and is one of the best in the world."


LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                              July 6, 2003, Sunday

MOSCOW BOMBING: CATALOGUE OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 195 words


June 2003: A suicide bomber blows up a bus serving an airforce base in Mozdok,
North Ossetia, killing 17.

May 2003: 59 are killed when a truck bomb crashes into a government building in
Znamenskoye. Two days later 30 die and 100 are injured when two suicide bombers
blow themselves up during a Muslim holiday in Iliskhan Yurt.

December 2002: Two vehicles packed with explosives crash into the parliament
building in Grozny, killing 80.

October 2002: Chechen rebels seize a Moscow theatre and hold 800 hostages: 41
rebels and 120 hostages are killed when Russian forces storm the building.

September 1999: 64 die in a bomb attack on Russian military housing in Dagestan.
Three blasts over the next fortnight in Moscow and Volgondonsk kill a further
229.

March 1999: Moscow's top envoy to Chechnya, General Gennadiy Shpigun, is
kidnapped. His corpse is found in Chechnya in March 2000.

December 1998: The heads of three British and one New Zealand telephone
engineers found near Grozny two months after their kidnap.

June 1995: Chechen rebels seize a hospital in Budennovsk. More than 100 die in
the raid and in a Russian commando operation.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                  July 7, 2003

NELL'S NUTTER ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 149 words


SEXY Nell McAndrew has has spoken out about the horror of being attacked by a
crazed lunatic.

As a teenage model Nell was grabbed from behind as she stood waiting at a Paris
railway station.

"My attacker was a complete weirdo but luckily I had the strength to break away,
" she recalled.

The 29-year-old beauty was launching the Flora Light Women's Challenge.

Nell will lead a team of 500 runners to raise funds for the British Heart
Foundation in the run at Hyde Park, London, on September 14.

"The run is a great way to get started and anyone who eats well and stays fit is
doing their heart and their health a huge favour."

she added.

"You can stroll round if you want.

I'm getting my mum and loads of mates from Leeds to make a weekend of it. It
should be a great day."

If you want to run the Flora Light Women's Challenge with Nell, call 020 7924
7214.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 Express Newspapers

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                  July 8, 2003

Schoolgirl tells of terror after attack by thug

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 334 words


The victim of a sex attack.  She told how the man caught her, hauled her off her
feet but ran off when a passer-by spotted the struggle. And today the teenager
and her family described the ordeal - and pleaded for the public to help catch
her attacker.

Her disgusted stepmum said: "Anything could have happened to her. This man made
his intentions very clear and if she hadn't got free, she could have been raped
or be lying dead somewhere right now." The drama began at 9.30pm on Sunday when
the Peterhead Academy pupil - who is not being named - was walking home alone
from a friend's house.

Reliving her ordeal, the youngster said: "I took a shortcut over some ground
near Balmoor Terrace when I saw a man just sitting on the ground, smoking a
cigarette.

"He started whistling at me and saying he fancied me and liked the way I looked,
but I just kept walking." Moments later the youngster realised the man was
following her and he was making suggestive remarks.  She said: "I was really
scared and he was still shouting things at me and catching up. I didn't know
what he was going to do to me.

"I got on to Balmoor Terrace and just started to run, but then he was running
too.

"He chased me to the top of the hill and I was really frightened. Then he
grabbed hold of my jacket hood and pulled me back." She struggled frantically
and the thug released her and ran off when he spotted a woman walking her dog
towards them.

Her stepmum said: "When she got inside she was as white as a ghost and totally
hysterical. She couldn't speak for the tears." Sergeant Stuart Patterson said:
"We want to speak to anyone who witnessed the incident - particularly the woman
walking her dog." The culprit was in his late 20s, 6ft and of muscular build. He
was wearing a yellow football shirt, jeans and a dark baseball cap.

The young victim said the man spoke with a local accent but sounded as though he
had spent time outside the area.

Anyone with information should call (01779) 472571.


LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2003 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 8, 2003, Tuesday

STREET KIDNAP TERROR;
 WOMAN FIGHTS BALD ATTACKER

BYLINE: ANDY PROBERT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 237 words


A WOMAN fought back against a man who tried to abduct her in a Redditch street.

Thewoman,aged 31, was rescued when a car, believed to contain four men, pulled
up and the offender ran off.

Det ConDamian Pettit, of Redditch police, said the woman had spent a night out
with friends at Chicago Rock cafe, in Unicorn Hill, on Sunday.

As she walked down the hill at about 11.45pm she noticed a man on the opposite
side of the road.

He called to her, but she carried on walking.

As she entered Easemore Road, the man who had begun to follow her grabbed the
woman to stop her from walking away.

While the woman was fighting off her attacker, a car travelled past and stopped,
prompting the attacker to run off.

The woman was taken home by the car's occupants when the alarm was raised.

Mr Pettit said officers were now studying CCTV tapes from the scene in a bid to
track down the offender.

'This was a very frightening experience for this woman.

'She was not injured by her ordeal, but was left very shaken.

'We would appeal to any witnesses who may have seen anyone acting suspiciously
in the area, particularly near St Stephen's Church or the former McDonald's
building.'

Mr Pettit said the attacker was Asian, in his early 30s, about 5ft 2in, of
medium build. He had dark hair, but was bald on top and at the front.

He wore a plain longsleeved white shirt and dark trainers.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                  July 8, 2003

Addict jailed for bedroom terror attack

LENGTH: 182 words


A DRUG addict who beat up his then former partner in her own home is behind bars
for 18 months.

Martin Gray 29 punched "defenceless victim Tracy Evans in the face, dragged her
across the floor causing carpet burns and abused her in the 20-minute terror
attack in her bedroom. Burnley Crown Court heard factory worker Miss Evans
thought the defendant was going to kill her and it was not until the next day
she escaped from her bedroom, climbed out of the window and fled to safety.

Sentencing Gray, who has 78 previous convictions, Judge Barbara Watson said the
attack was violent, unprovoked and sustained and it must have been impossible
for Miss Evans to get help.

Gray, of Dall Street, Burnley, earlier admitted assault causing actual bodily
harm and false imprisonment, in June last year.

Anthony Cross, defending, said Gray did not have a clear recollection of what
happened. He and Miss Evans were still seeing each other and a relationship was
continuing.

Mr Cross said Gray, who had been on remand at Preston Prison, was now said to be
drug free.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                             July 8, 2003, Tuesday

POLICE DOGS LIKE GOLD DUST' AFTER 9/11 TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 620 words


A NATIONAL shortage of German shepherds has forced a Welsh police force to
launch a recruitment drive for the dogs.

Good alsatians are said to be as rare as gold dust now because of the increase
in security measures after the 9/11 terrorist attacks.

Gwent Police need them to sniff out drugs or explosives, track criminals, search
buildings and help officers keep public order.

Force dog instructor Pc Tony Radford said yesterday, "We are in urgent need of
dogs. Their contribution to the police service is invaluable, whether in the
detection or prevention of crime.

"I can assure the public that our dogs have the best of lives, both working and
family. Their welfare is of the utmost importance to us."

Swansea dog trainer Tony Cronin, who runs DragonK9 which produces explosives and
drugs dogs for police forces around the world, is not surprised that Gwent
Police are having difficulty in finding German shepherds.

"There is a shortage of them throughout the UK," he said. "Good German shepherds
which can be trained for police work are now changing hands at pounds 1,200
each, and that puts a strain on force budgets.

"The underlying problem is that the dogshow fraternity is breeding German
shepherds for looks, not brains.

"What makes really good policedog potential is a bright, intelligent, German
shepherd which loves chasing a tennis ball. The idea is to reward the dog by
allowing it to chase the ball after finding guns or explosives.

"Unfortunately, really bright, attentive German shepherds are at a premium right
now because so many are being bred for shows, not for working.

"I'm looking out for suitable dogs for the Gwent force myself, but after
September 11 and the huge rise in security good German shepherds are like gold
dust. I wish them the best of luck in finding some good police dogs."

German shepherd dogs or alsatians are particularly prized by police forces for
their intelligence, vigilance, fidelity and watchfulness.

Like all dogs they have a finelytuned sense of smell, making them invaluable for
drug or explosivesniffing work.

The dogs are also fearless and because of their breeding as animal protectors
have a decided suspicion of strangers.

They stay alert to every sight and sound, with nothing escaping their attention.

A police officer who volunteers to become a dog handler must have completed at
least two years' streetduty experience as a uniformed officer.

Once approved by a board of senior officers, the prospective handler attends a
twoweek suitability course to make sure he or she has the temperament to work
with dogs. If the course is completed successfully a dog is allocated and lives
in the handler's home, becoming a part of the family. The dogs, with their
handlers, undergo a series of courses and tests before becoming police dogs.

They are taught to search different types of places such as open countryside,
wooded areas and buildings for criminals and stolen property and to give signals
to their handlers when they find what they are seeking.

By the end of their training the police dogs are completely trained in criminal
work, involving chase and attack, standoff, chase in the face of a stick, gun or
other weapon and in how to control prisoners and crowds.

At all times dogs are trained to apply only enough force necessary to carry out
their police duties.

They will do everything from keeping soccer hooligans in order to searching for
a lost child.

By the time dogs are trained they represent an investment of many thousands of
pounds. Police dogs are regarded around the world as among the best assets that
forces have at their disposal in terms of detection and deterrence.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TEAMWORK: Pc Tony Radford of Gwent Police with his eightyearold German
shepherd Jake

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                  July 9, 2003

Police In Plea To Oap Over Terror Attack

BYLINE: Andrew Kellock

SECTION: News; 999; Sexcrime; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 174 words


An Elderly woman could hold the key to catching a man who terrorised a
schoolgirl.  Police investigating the Peterhead incident have already made two
appeals for the woman to get in touch, but she has yet to come forward.

The woman was walking a dog nearby when the man grabbed a 14-year-old Peterhead
Academy pupil he had chased across waste ground. The unnamed youngster managed
to break free of his clutches and ran off.

She was uninjured but badly shaken by her ordeal.

The girl later told how she feared she was going to be the victim of a sex
attack when the man shouted obscenities and ran after her.

When he caught her up and took hold of her, she struggled frantically and the
man released her when he spotted the woman walking a dog.

The incident happened at the rear of Grange Garage in West Road on Sunday night.

The man was 6ft, muscular, and was wearing light blue jeans and a dark baseball
cap.

Police have appealed for witnesses to contact them on 01779 472571, or the
Crimestoppers number, 0800 555111.


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2003 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            July 9, 2003, Wednesday

FIRE SERVICE KITTED OUT TO FACE TERRORIST ATTACK;
 EQUIPMENT IN PLACE FOR DIRTY BOMB'

BYLINE: SUZANNE ELSWORTH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 611 words


MERSEYSIDE takes a major step forward today in its preparations for the
unthinkable prospect of a massive terrorist attack.

The region's fire service is the first in the North West to be equipped with new
equipment for the large scale decontamination of casualties.

The kit, which was demonstrated to fire authority bosses yesterday, will be in
use from today and could clean up to 200 people an hour if a "dirty bomb" or
similar chemical attack occurred.

The equipment, which was designed in the wake of the September 11 attacks in the
US, will also be used at incidents involving chemicals or hazardous materials.

There will soon be more than 20 of the specialist units based around the
country. In this region,Merseyside is first to go public with the equipment and
Greater Manchester Fire Service is currently training its officers. Six others
will be put in place in the North West before the end of the year.

The aim of the new equipment is to decontaminate people quickly, but with
dignity and modesty.

In the past,an area would be cordoned off using fire appliances and ladders as
barriers and people would be hosed down with cold water and detergent in the
open air. This could prove very traumatic for already shocked victims,
particularly in winter.

The new methods will see those affected by chemicals hosed initially in a what
emergency teams call the hot' zone, where the worst of the chemical is removed.

They then move on to the warm' area,inside a sectioned tent, where they are
given fleece lined rubber robes to wear. Their contaminated clothes are disposed
of by specially trained firefighters wearing sealed protective suits and
breathing apparatus.

The next section of the tent is a shower area where 10 people at a time will be
blasted from all sides by warm water and detergent to remove the remainder of
the hazard. A traffic light-style system tells them when they have spent the
required three minutes under the spray and are allowed to move on.

The final covered section is heated with warm air to dry the victims as they
dress in clean warm and waterproof clothing. Thousands of such suits have been
delivered to ensure the fire service is prepared for any eventuality.

As they exit into the "cold" zone, the decontaminated people would then be
passed to the care of the local authority or paramedics, depending on the scale
of their injuries or needs.

To prevent contamination of the area, waste water from the showers will be
pumped away and contained in inflatable reservoirs until it can be disposed of
safely.

The protective suits worn by the fire crews are very hot and heavy and they are
likely to only wear them for 20 minutes at a time. A special inflatable shower
area is set aside for them.

Badly-hurt casualties can go through the whole process on stretchers, slid along
rollers, with the assistance of firefighters.

All Merseyside's fire officers have already been trained in the use of the new
equipment and are able to erect the whole unit in just nine minutes. Training
for firefighters will begin in August.

The equipment will initially be based at the service's headquarters in Bridle
Road, Bootle, and will eventually be based in Kirkdale.

Merseyside chief fire officer Tony McGuirk said: "Initially,after September 11,
we set up systems using our existing decontamination equipment,but the need was
recognised for a much larger system on a national basis.

"The main difference with the new units is in the dignity they provide. They are
more sophisticated and there is no more or less dignity than if someone were in
the gym."

Opinion -Page 10

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DOOMWATCH: Fire officers training with new equipment for a major
terrorist incident Picture: TONY KENWRIGHT

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            July 9, 2003, Wednesday

KITTED OUT FOR TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: SUZANNE ELSWORTH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 181 words


MERSEYSIDE takes a major step forward today in its preparations for the prospect
of attack by terrorists.

The region's fire service is the first in the north west to be equipped with new
equipment for the large-scale decontamination of casualties.

The kit, unveiled to fire authority managers yesterday at the station in
Storrington Avenue,Norris Green, will be in use from today and could clean up to
200 people an hour if a dirty bomb or similar chemical attack occurred.

The equipment,designed after the September 11 attacks in the US, will also be
used at more domestic incidents involving chemicals or hazardous materials.

There will soon be more than 20 of the specialist units based around the
country. In this region,Merseyside is first to go public with the equipment and
Greater Manchester Fire Service is currently training its officers. Six others
will be put in place in the north west before the end of the year.

The equipment will initially be based at the service's headquarters in Bridle
Road,Bootle,and will eventually be based in Kirkdale.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GEARED UP: Firefighters in the new outfits designed for protection
after a terror attack Pictures: TONY KENWRIGHT; BE PREPARED: Officers in
training action

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 10, 2003, Thursday

ATTACK OF THE 30,000 HONEY BEES;
 TERROR AS SWARM SURROUNDS XTRA-VISION STORE EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: DECLAN FAHY AND PATRICK O' CONNELL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 428 words

HIGHLIGHT: DANGER: Honey bees; BEE-SIEGED: Xtra-vision in Enniscorthy, Co
Wexford, was like a scene from The Swarm, inset


A SWARM of more than 30,000 bees terrorised staff and customers at a video shop,
the Irish Mirror can reveal.

The chaos began when the swarm landed on a tree outside Xtra-vision in
Enniscorthy, Co Wexford on Sunday.

Xtra-vision's Gerry Butler explained: "The bees presented a very real threat to
our safety.

"A beekeeper was called in to try and capture them and he estimated their
numbers to have been upwards of 30,000.

"At one stage, there were so many on the tree that one of the branches buckled
before actually breaking under the weight."

But the swarm was too big for the beekeeper to deal with and more and more of
the angry insects began flying into the store.

Frightened staff called the pest controller.

Mr Butler said: "The box the beekeeper brought with him wasn't big enough to
capture them all, but he did get approximately half of them.

"He went off to get a second container but staff contacted us and said more and
more of the bees were making their way into the store.

"At the same time those in the box were becoming increasingly agitated.

"As the situation got more intense, staff got increasingly nervous.

"At all stages, our first concern would be the safety of our staff and
customers. We couldn't be sure of when the beekeeper would return so we were
left with little choice but to call in pest control.

"It's unfortunate but it was necessary that the bees were destroyed."

One onlooker said: "It was absolutely frightening. The bees started to swarm
into to the shop in Abbey Square.

"It must have been so scary for the staff and customers to have thousands of
bees flying around their shop."

Deter Ireland Pest Control's Terry Frances said it was a very dangerous
situation.

He added: "Someone had been along before me and managed to put a fair amount of
the bees in a cardboard box but he was stung so and left, saying he would be
back shortly afterwards."

Meanwhile, the bees were

going absolutely bananas, crawling over the trees and all over the front of the
shop's windows.

"These were wild honey bees, and a conservative estimate would be that the swarm
numbered between 30,000 and 40,000.

"There were people around the corner and the situation that was developing was
an extremely dangerous one.

"The conditions didn't help either. It was very hot, the bee's were extremely
agitated and this was one of the biggest and most aggressive swarms I have ever
been faced with.

"I hate killing bees but in this case, we really weren't left with any other
choice."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 11, 2003

MOB OF 30 IN TERROR ATTACK ON DISCO GIRL

BYLINE: By Craig Walker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 295 words


A TERRIFIED schoolgirl had her nose broken and hair ripped out in a savage
attack by a gang of about 30 girls.

The 13-year-old, who is too traumatised to be identified, was ambushed by the
group after leaving a disco with her friend.

She also suffered a black eye, cuts and bruises in the unprovoked attack, which
only ended after three men, one a 6ft 4ins bouncer, shielded her from her
attackers.

The girl said yesterday: "I was really scared. There were lots of people around
me, punching me and kicking me.

"I didn't recognise any of them and didn't know why they were attacking me."

The incident happened at about 10.30pm on Tuesday after the youngster and her
friend left a nightspot in Aberdeen. Another girl, older than the two friends,
ran up to them, and grabbed the terrified youngster by the hair.

It is believed she was looking for someone else but still decided to attack the
girl.

And within seconds she was joined by about 30 more girls aged between 12 and 16.

Two men in a nearby pub and another man who was passing by quickly went to the
girl's aid but were also set upon by the raging mob.

Yesterday the father of the girl praised the three men who saved his daughter
from the gang.

He said: "When I heard what had happened, I just froze. We are very careful what
we let our children do and where they go. It was only her second disco and
something like this happens."

After the attack, the girl's mother took her to hospital to be treated.

A Grampian Police spokesman confirmed last night they were investigating.

One of the girls involved in the attack was wearing a dark shirt, blue T-shirt,
white cardigan and black kneehigh boots.

Another was wearing a black shirt, black top and knee-high boots.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 11, 2003, Friday

Terror attack? Don't panic. You (and your hamster) can survive it

BYLINE: Tim Reid

SECTION: Features; Times2; 4

LENGTH: 2019 words


AMID INCREASINGLY DIRE WARNINGS OF TERRORIST ATTACK, AN AMERICAN MANUAL ON HOW
TO SURVIVE ONE HAS BEEN PUBLISHED HERE. TIM REID SAYS ITS MESSAGE IS THAT
THERE'S LITTLE TO WORRY ABOUT -YOU MAY NOT EVEN NEED TO INTERRUPT YOUR TENNIS
MATCH

I DECIDED SOME TIME AGO what I will do if terrorists launch a chemical or
biological attack where I live, or a suicide bomber detonates a radiological
dirty bomb packed with nuclear waste. After calmly weighing up all the options
for two or even three seconds, I am going to panic like hell. This is it, I will
whimper.

This is The Day of the Triffids meets Dr Strangelove. And I wager the
Armageddon-like response in the offices and streets around me will be rather
similar.

For the quietly terrified, however, help is suddenly at hand. For those still
wondering which book to take to the beach this summer, a new paperback has just
arrived in the UK. It is not the raciest read, nor the cheeriest of titles, but
it is certainly uplifting.

The Survival Guide: What to do in a Biological, Chemical or Nuclear Emergency,
which has been a New York Times bestseller for months, is a clear, detailed
manual for the general public on what practical steps to take in the event of a
terrorist attack that uses unconventional weapons. The author, Angelo Acquista,
is a doctor and medical director of the New York City Mayor's Office of
Emergency Management.

After the September 11 terror attacks he served on the task force on
bioterrorism set up by the former New York mayor, Rudolph Giuliani.

His message is simple. Most chemical, biological or nuclear attacks will result
in limited casualties and the potentially deadly side-effects can often be
treated with soap and water or a quick canter up the nearest hill. Don't panic,
he says.

There is very little to panic about. There is even advice on what to do with
your pet hamster when the terrorists strike.

His book is not only timely, but clearly needed. Neither the British nor US
government has educated the public about the many practical steps to take in the
event of an attack, but they have successfully scared everybody witless.

In Britain, Nick Raynsford, the Local Government Minister, has said that the
public will be overwhelmed and confused by detailed guidance on different types
of attack. In Washington, the threat of terrorists using weapons of unimaginable
ghastliness is broadcast almost daily from the White House. Wartime presidents
are hard to dislodge. The potentially endless and perpetually worrying war on
terror is proving a wonderful vote-getter for President Bush.

At the same time, the evaluation from other, more independent, quarters has been
similarly grim. Last month Eliza Manningham-Buller, the director-general of MI5,
gave a warning that a biological, chemical or nuclear attack on the West is
inevitable. Her comments were all the more powerful because it is extremely rare
for the head of the domestic security service to speak in public.

Manningham-Buller said: "We are faced with the realistic possibility of some
form of unconventional attack. That could include a chemical, biological,
radiological or nuclear (CBRN) attack. Sadly, given the widespread proliferation
of the technical knowledge to construct these weapons, it will only be a matter
of time before a crude version of a CBRN attack is launched at a major Western
city." She emphasised that the discovery of traces of ricin poison in a North
London flat in January "demonstrates (the terrorists') interest in
unconventional weapons".

In Washington this month, a panel of foreign policy experts declared that
America's defences against another terrorist attack are riddled with weakness.
The title of the Council on Foreign Relations report -Emergency Responders:
Drastically Underfunded, Dangerously Unprepared -did little to reassure a
jittery American public that Uncle Sam is now ready to thwart and respond to
another September 11 atrocity, or an even worse attack. The report was all the
more alarming because the panel that produced it was headed by Warren Rudman, a
former Republican senator. It was Rudman who, with the former Democratic senator
and presidential candidate Gary Hart, reported with great prescience in early
2001 that the US was vulnerable to a large-scale terrorist attack that was
virtually inevitable.

Dr Acquista's book is the perfect antidote to all these unremittingly bleak
prophesies. It covers everything you probably didn't want to know about horrible
weapons and deadly agents and were too afraid to ask, from the ones most people
have heard of -anthrax, dirty bombs, smallpox -to a host of deadly infections
and poisons that would make your hair curl even before you have been
contaminated.

These include T2 Mycotoxin, also known as yellow rain, made from grain and which
can be inhaled or ingested, causing skin to peel off and, without treatment,
probable death; septicaemic plague, which can cause gangrene and rapid
progression to complete organ failure; and phosgene oxime, a blister agent that
produces stomach bleeding, skin death and a valid excuse to leave work early.

The key elements of Dr Acquista's 285-page guide are information boxes on each
possible weapon, poison and nerve agent, which contain the name of the disease,
the organism responsible, how it is contracted, the time from exposure to
illness, major symptoms and, crucially, how to treat it and what vaccines or
antibiotics should be taken.

It is also accompanied by some revolting photographs of pustulating inner thighs
and blackened toes which should not be viewed immediately after breakfast.

Contracting the plague, for example, does not necessarily spell doom. Most
infected victims have at least two days to take antibiotics before symptoms
become dangerous. Mouths, eyes and skin cuts should be washed regularly.

It is also encouraging to learn that in the event of a dirty bomb, "people could
be killed by the blast itself, but it is doubtful that the radioactivity
produced after a dirty bomb would kill anyone. The radioactive material would be
dispersed into the air and quickly reduced to low concentrations, thus only
people within a few blocks of the explosion would be at risk of radiation
exposure." Moreover, Dr Acquista writes, "it is much more likely that low-level
sources (of radioactive materials) would be used...and not enough to cause
severe illness from exposure". The message here seems to be clear: if a dirty
bomb explodes more than 600 yards from your tennis game, continue serving,
especially if you are a set up.

Dr Acquista says he wrote the guide because the common denominator among people
who are afraid is ignorance. The guide, he says, is one way to educate them and
thus take away the terrorists' weapon of fear. "Nobody is going to train the
public," he says. "But if people are better prepared they won't be afraid, and
they will be able to save their own lives and the lives of others.

"There is a total lack of knowledge about what would happen in biological,
chemical and nuclear emergencies. Despite the fact that we call biological
agents weapons of mass destruction, people should know that there are treatments
and therapies for most of them, and once the initial cluster of victims is
finished, the damage is usually very limited.

"The technical threshold for a terrorist to weaponise a biological agent, such
as anthrax, is extremely high. The chances of successfully producing mass
casualties is extremely low. But people are not aware of this. People need to
know that all biological agents have incubation periods, and therefore you have
time to get therapy and prophylactics."

The only true weapon of mass destruction, Dr Acquista says, is a nuclear bomb.

"But it is enormously difficult for terrorists to get high quality, enriched
uranium and a great technical threshold to be overcome to successfully detonate
a nuclear weapon."

The most likely unconventional weapon that terrorists might use, Dr Acquista
says, are chemical. But even here his diagnosis is greatly reassuring. "Chemical
weapons are available from industry. We know them as insecticides and
pesticides. Since they are widely available, they are the one thing terrorists
can get their hands on easily." But, he adds, in cold weather chemical weapons
are virtually useless because they cannot vaporise. In hot or windy weather,
they disperse too rapidly to be effective. "People in England should know that
they can walk down a street in London on a cold day and chemical weapons cannot
be used" -a thought to warm the heart during the Christmas rush.

"They should also know that the best response for chemical agents once they are
released is fresh air, salt and water to wash with, and not a gas mask, which is
very, very dangerous. People shouldn't rush out and buy gas masks. Many people
not trained to use them have suffocated. Move to fresh air, and you'll be fine."

Here is a typical attack drill. If there is an unidentified chemical agent
attack, in the form of gas, liquid or powder, early symptoms may include burning
eyes, nose, throat or skin, and blisters, welts or rashes.

Response: leave the area of exposure at once -seconds may count. Don't touch
suspicious substances. Go against the wind and uphill. Do not go below ground
(for example a basement) unless told to do so, because chemical agents are
heavier than air. Cover nose and mouth with fabric, preferably wet. Take shallow
breaths until out of exposure area. Close your eyes if you can. Remove clothing
and rinse skin.

Shower if possible. Flush eyes with water for 10-15 minutes.

This all comes with a detailed chart of "early indicators", full of useful
facts.

Chlorine gas is greenish-yellow and has a pungent smell, while hydrogen cyanide
smells of bitter almonds.

Dr Acquista says the Sarin gas attack on the Tokyo subway in 1995 is a clear
demonstration of the limits of chemical agents. "The Sarin nerve agent was
released in a crowded indoor area. The conditions were optimal for the attack.
But only 10 per cent of those who were exposed became symptomatic, and only one
per cent of that 10 per cent -12 people -died. In that light, that is certainly
not a weapon of mass destruction."

Dr Acquista agrees with Tony Blair and George Bush on one thing, however.

Terrorism is here to stay. "The US and UK are perceived to be superpowers who
are militarily unchallenged. Enemies have no other response but with terrorism.

Whether it is today, or ten years from now, terrorism will be here to
intimidate, and the best way to do that is to use these weapons."

Dr Acquista's book does much to assuage the fear, but in the full scream of
public terror an attack would render one wonders how many will have the presence
of mind to calmly switch off EastEnders and discover on page 125 that your large
blisters, violent sneezing and fluid-filled lungs, combined with the smell of
geraniums in your living room, has been caused by Lewisite, a World War One
blister agent, and that you need rapid application to the skin of the ointment
dimercaprol.

If you have managed to remain calm enough to have got this far, through
streaming eyes and nausea, you will be disappointed to read that "dimercaprol is
in very short supply and not readily available".

But the book is undeniably successful in making these weapons more real, and far
less menacing, than the mythology that surrounds them.

And your hamster? Be prepared: a hamster first-aid pack should include gauze
pads, bandages, Q-tips, rubber tubing for a tourniquet and antibiotic ointment.
"Most emergency shelters cannot accept animals. Find local motels in your area
that will accept pets. Thoroughly wash them with soap and water before bringing
them inside."

Now that would show the terrorists.

The Survival Guide: What to do in a Biological, Chemical or Nuclear Emergency by
Angelo Acquista, Hodder & Stoughton, Pounds 8.99

How real is the threat of a terrorist attack and how should we react? E-mail
debate@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             July 13, 2003, Sunday

Israel urges Blair to put pressure on Tehran over terror attacks

BYLINE: Uzi Mahnaimi in Tel Aviv

SECTION: Overseas news; News; 20

LENGTH: 405 words


THE prime minister of Israel, Ariel Sharon, will urge Tony Blair this week to
try to steer Iran away from supporting terrorism in the West Bank.

During a three-day visit to Britain, starting today, Sharon will brief Blair on
intelligence indicating that Iran is playing an increasing role in Palestinian
terrorist activity. The move will add to pressure on Tehran, which already faces
allegations that it is running a covert programme to develop nuclear weapons.

When he dines with Blair tomorrow Sharon is also expected to voice his concerns
over the activities of fundamentalist Muslims in Britain and about the potential
threat of Libyan efforts to develop weapons of mass destruction.

Sharon's visit follows a long delay in accepting an invitation from Blair, who
angered the Israelis by playing host to Yasser Arafat, the Palestinian leader,
at Downing Street.

"There were feelings of a pro-Palestinian trend in the British government to
soothe the anger in the Arab world before and after the war in Iraq," said an
Israeli source.

However, Sharon now believes that British contacts with Arafat have been scaled
back. He is expected to tell Blair that Arafat is a danger to the peace process.

The Israeli prime minister will argue that recent comments by Arafat are
seriously undermining the ability of Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian prime
minister also known as Abu Mazen, to implement the "road map" peace plan backed
by Britain and America. Sharon will outline the threat posed by what Israel
claims is Iranian support, training and financing of rogue Palestinian
organisations opposed to the peace process.

As part of his evidence to Blair, Sharon is likely to brief him on a joint
operation between Shin Bet, Israel's internal intelligence service, and
Palestinian security forces to track down an Iranian- directed terrorist cell.

The cell came to light during investigations into a would-be suicide bomber who
was arrested two weeks ago, half an hour before he intended to blow himself up.

The bomber and his controller, who was caught a day later, are said to have
revealed that their group, the formerly pro-Arafat Fatah Tanzim, was instructed
by Iranian revolutionary guards based in south Lebanon to sabotage the truce
between Israel and the Palestinians.

At a recent meeting with Sharon, Abu Mazen admitted that "the Iranians are
deeply involved in West Bank terrorism".


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                             July 13, 2003, Sunday

MI5 BOSS WARNS OF TERROR ATTACK ON BRITAIN

BYLINE: Derek Alexander

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 295 words


THE terror alert comes just weeks after Britain's spymaster warned a "dirty
bomb" attack in Britain was "only a matter of time."

Eliza Manningham-Buller, head of MI5, warned terrorists were being trained to
attack the West and had the expertise and materials required for a nuclear,
chemical or biological atrocity.

She said: "The supply of potential terrorists among extreme elements is unlikely
to diminish.

"Breaking the link between terrorism and religious ideology is difficult."

Ms Manningham-Buller added that intelligence suggested that rogue scientists had
told the international terrorist network how to make the weapons.

Police officers in all eight Scots forces have received extra training to ensure
they are prepared for a chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear attack.
Britain has been on a high alert for terrorist attacks since September 11.
Earlier this year Tony Blair sent the Army to Heathrow amid fears of an al-
Qaeda missile attack on passenger jets.

Tanks and more than 450 soldiers guarded the airport after a "specific threat"
in London from terrorists.

The government placed huge blocks of concrete round the Houses of Parliament in
May in response to terrorist threats.

Police have also stepped up the number of patrols around the Commons and the
Lords. Stringent safety checks have been ordered on the London Underground amid
heightened fears of a gas or biological attack.

Air is regularly monitored in the capital and government scientists are said be
experimenting with a harmless gas to establish how far and quickly it would
travel through the Tube network.

London Underground have increased security and appealed to passengers to be
extra vigilant about a possible terrorist attack.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2003 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                 July 14, 2003

Terror attack plans 'flawed'

BYLINE: ian craig

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 236 words



EMERGENCY plans to deal with a terrorist attack in Greater Manchester and other
regions may be fatally flawed, say MPs.

The Commons defence committee say the government's Civil Contingencies Bill,
drawn up after the September 11 outrage in New York, orders local councils and
fire and ambulance services to get ready to deal with an emergency - but fails
to say what Whitehall would do.

"The government must explain why it is right to impose statutory obligations on
local authorities and local emergency services, but not on itself or on regional
bodies," say the committee.

And they warn there are serious concerns about the lack of security for private
buildings such as those destroyed in the Manchester bomb blast.

"Commercial and private property has historically been the target of the
majority of international terrorist attacks," say the MPs.

Home Secretary David Blunkett announced in March that regional civil
contingencies teams would be set up to move in if there is a terrorist attack.

They would meet first if there was a threat of an emergency, meet again if there
was a wide disruptive challenge in the area, and meet a third time if the
government ordered national action.

"But we are concerned that the proposals place greater emphasis on specialist
expertise than on the ability to provide leadership in times of crisis," say the
committee.




LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2003 Manchester Evening News

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Essex

                                 July 14, 2003

Southend: Battle to fund terror attack precautions

LENGTH: 273 words

DATELINE: Essex


A leading Southend councillor has said the authority will fight any underfunding
for new emergency planning laws.

A House of Commons committee claims local authorities have been left short of
cash to provide emergency planning in the event of a terrorist attack.

The Defence Committee said local authorities faced new legal duties under fresh
legislation for emergency planning but it warned that the obligations were not
being matched by Government funding.

The Civil Contingencies Bill contains measures aimed at updating responses to
emergencies such as terrorist attacks.

It includes plans to give the Government powers to rush through temporary
legislation without prior Parliamentary approval.

Authorities would have new powers to declare a regional state of emergency in
the aftermath of a major terror alert.

Infrastructure organisations such as water and power companies would have a
statutory obligation to co-operate and share information under the overall
guidance of the local authority.

Ann Holland Southend's executive councillor for environmental and public
protection said: "Our emergency planning officer is preparing a report to go to
cabinet.

"It will put a lot more work on us if the Government is not going to fund us
adequately. It is going to be very difficult.

"If we feel we are not getting enough funding we will make strong
representations through the Local Government Association MPs and anyone who we
think will be able to help us."

Published Monday July 14 2003

Brought to you by the Evening Echo
(http://www.thisisessex.co.uk/essex/about_this_site/hosts-echo.html)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 15, 2003, Tuesday

TERROR ATTACKS CARNAGE: Birmingham pub bombings

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 72 words


'Terrorist activity(IRA) had increased and threatened mainland Britain,
ultimately resulting in the Birmingham pub bombings when 22 people were killed.
On this particular day there had been a sense of tension in the community as an
IRA terrorist, who had been held in Coventry was due to be flown back to Ireland
and a large number of police officers had been placed between Coventry and
Birmingham Airport to guard the route.'

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        July 15, 2003, Tuesday Edition 1

Dog attack child's terror

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 415 words


   Mauled David Gash bravely faced the world today as he relived the moment his
face was ripped apart by a ferocious dog.

The 12-year-old needed 34 stitches after the bull mastiff lunged at him. The dog
has now been destroyed.

David had gone around to a new next-door neighbour's house with a welcome card
when the family pet suddenly turned on him.

the youngster, who had been living with his dad John, 51, in Alston Road,
Consett, said he had now moved to his mum's home in North Shields, following the
weekend attack.

" I'm too scared to go back home in case the dog goes for me again," he said.

"I went around with a card to welcome the new neighbours. They invited me in and
asked if I wanted to see their dog.

"I love dogs so I was dead keen, but as soon as I went to the side of the house
I realised the dog wasn't being friendly.

"It jumped up at me and grabbed my arm and tried to drag me to the floor. I
fought to stop myself being pulled down.

"It got me kneeling and began attacking my face, barking and growling.

"I fought to break free and managed to run to the gate. The woman who owns it
got herself in between me and the dog and I ran back home.

"I was petrified and I was pouring with blood. My dad and sister rang for the
police and an ambulance."

David, a pupil at the town's Blackfyne School, was taken to Co Durham's
University Hospital, where he was in surgery until 11pm on Saturday night.

As well as seven separate bite wounds to his face, he has a broken tooth, a
badly bruised upper right forearm and paw scratches on his chest and back. He is
taking painkillers and a course of strong antibiotics.

David's dad John said: "All I heard was David screaming - it was an awful sound
that I will never forget. .

"I rushed out my house and saw him trying to get the gate open. I have cried my
heart out about this." David's mum Dawn, 36, said: "We are an animal-loving
family and he has always loved dogs.

"I broke down when I arrived at the hospital and saw the state he was in.

"The doctors say some of the facial scars will last for life.

"I even caught him looking at a picture of himself before the attack. He said
I'll never look right again, will I mum?

"The neighbours have sent a get well card apologising for it."

Today the dog's owners issued a statement in which they said: "We are both
absolutely devastated about what happened.

"Our sincerest apologies go out to David and his family. The dog has been put to
sleep."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        July 15, 2003, Tuesday Edition 1

Three knifed in Palestinian terror attack

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 243 words


   As top Palestinian leaders settled a rift that threatened peace efforts, a
knifeman killed one Israeli and injured two others in Tel Aviv today.

It was the first attack in an Israeli city since Palestinian groups called a
truce on June 29.

Palestinian Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas met President Yasser Arafat last night
in Ramallah and the organisers said they settled their differences.

Mr Abbas had threatened to resign unless Mr Arafat's Fatah movement gave its
backing to his handling of contacts with Israel.

The US and Israel are counting on Abbas to lead the Palestinians in the peace
effort to end violence and create a Palestinian state in 2005.

Meanwhile, the Palestinian knifeman stabbed three people in Tel Aviv. He tried
to enter a bar, struggled with a security guard and stabbed him in the neck.

The owner of the bar threw a chair at him and he began to flee along the seaside
promenade, chased by the guard and owner. The attacker stabbed two more people,
including a woman, before the guard shot him in the legs.

The guard and the owner held him down until police arrived.

As Mr Arafat and Mr Abbas met, Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon was in
London, the first stop on a trip to Europe, to try to persuade leaders to go
along with his boycott of Arafat.

But Britain refused, the Foreign Secretary Jack Straw saying the UK would
continue to deal with Arafat, the elected President of the Palestinian
Authority.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 July 16, 2003

Hotel Prepared For Terrorist Attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 23 1607WESTDP2B3hotel

LENGTH: 71 words


A Hotel in Wiltshire was surrounded by a ring of steel and armed police last
night to protect against terrorist attack.  The De Vere Hotel in Swindon will
host royalty and top military personnel this week visiting RAF Fairford, the
airbase which housed US B-52 bombers for the Iraq war.

Hundreds of yards of steel fencing have been erected, and guests will be greeted
by police dogs and bag scanning X-Ray machines.


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The NorthEast

                                 July 18, 2003

Terror fire attack on youngsters

LENGTH: 165 words

DATELINE: The North East


A YOUNG brother and sister were put through a terrifying ordeal by older youths
who attempted to set them alight.

The youngsters aged six and four were wrapped in wallpaper by three teenagers
who then tried to set fire to the paper using a lighter but failed.

The children ran off unhurt to their nearby home in Foxwood York after the
attack on Monday.

The incident details of which have just been made public echoed the tragic death
of 15-year-old Michael Temperley in a burning skip in Gateshead on the same
night.

North Yorkshire fire brigade's arson reduction officer Mick Brighton said
playing with fire was a growing phenomenon but few youngsters realised the
potential consequences of their actions.

"The fire brigade is tackling the root cause by teaching children of the dangers
of fire he said.

North Yorkshire Fire and Rescue operate an advice line which offers information
on fire setting behaviour. They can be contacted by telephoning 0800 074 0064.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                 July 20, 2003

WHEN THE UK EQUITY MARKET RALLIED AFTER THE TERRORIST ATTACK ON THE WORLD TRADE
CENTRE, CYCLICALS OUTPERFORMED DEFENSIVES AND MID CAPS OUTPERFORMED LARGE CAPS.

SECTION: Pg. 24

LENGTH: 681 words


When the UK equity market rallied after the terrorist attack on the World Trade
Centre, cyclicals outperformed defensives and mid caps outperformed large caps.
The equity market traded then travelled sideways for at least half a year,
trading in a narrow range. It then collapsed! While the "Baghdad Bounce" has
been more powerful than the post 9/11 rally, the chart shows that cyclicals are
now out-performing defensives. Mid and small caps, which are hitting new highs
for the year, are also outperforming large caps, except this time round they are
doing so with even more verve. Given the striking similarity in the way the
rally is evolving this time round compared to last, the obvious question is:
will it end in tears again?

One can always say it's different this time but that leads to nowhere trouble.
So let's just say that the momentum that fuelled the Baghdad Bounce has drawn
sustenance from the expectation that the fundamentals for equities are genuinely
improving. That was not the case after 9/11 or during most of 2002, when
earnings were falling. Valuations were also more demanding and less credible
because earnings were being downgraded. If you couldn't trust the earnings, you
couldn't trust the valuations.

But earnings estimates for the UK equity market appear to be stabilising and,
therefore, one can attach more credibility than before to the valuations. The
FTSE 250 is recovering strongly while earnings for the FTSE 100 are more or less
stabilising and the latter should recover as the year progresses.

That said, it is doubtful the UK equity market can sustain more progress beyond
what it has achieved this year until its overbought condition has been fully
resolved and this means a lengthy consolidation phase is likely, though one must
never lose sight of Wall Street, and Nasdaq in particular, where the traffic
remains one way.

The Index (??), which has been leading the way up, is reaching new highs for the
year.  However, the UK equity market will need some time to consolidate its
recent gain from its March low but its direction after that will depend on
whether the sector leadership in growth and cyclicals can be maintained. Thus
far, it has!

A listing of the sectors in descending order of their performance shows there is
only one defensive sector (health) in the top 10 best performing sectors over
one week, none over two weeks, none over three weeks, none over one month and
none over three months.  Some loss of momentum in the sector leadership is bound
to occur simply because investors take profits in areas that outperform and look
dear relative to areas that under-perform. That is the nature of a consolidation
phase, though what matters is the sector rotation, that is, the extent to which
the leaders are sold and the laggards are bought.

This does not mean there won't be any rotation back to the defensive sectors,
but the fact that there has been hardly any at all to date is a positive sign,
which suggests several things. First, that the market remains confident about
the prospective recovery in corporate earnings. Second, it also reflects the
underlying tone of the market, which is firm; and third, with cyclical sectors
maintaining their lead, as the chart shows, it suggests the FTSE 250 will
continue to outperform the FTSE 100 by virtue of the higher exposure to the
cyclical areas of the equity market.

The bottom line is that, on our view of improving fundamentals, the sector
leadership that has been associated with the Baghdad Bounce should be sustained.
Consolidation has begun but once the market's technical condition has been
unwound, it should then be in a position to move onwards and upwards. The
market, though not firm enough for a "sustainable" move say much beyond the 4200
level on the FTSE 100, should be able to prevent a slide, say below the 3900
level.

We would also expect the financials, the banks especially, to assist in pushing
up the market because of the diminishing concern over bad and doubtful debts.

Mike Lenhoff is chief strategist at Brewin Dolphin


LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2003 Sunday Business Group

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 July 21, 2003

City woman relives her terror after car attack

BYLINE: Angela Taylor

SECTION: News; 999; Vandalism; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 469 words


A Terrified woman motorist tried desperately to escape from her car as a violent
young man stood on the bonnet kicking in the windscreen.  Margaret Dogan told
how the red-haired stranger ran towards her car, forcing her to slow down,
before jumping on it and launching his bizarre attack.

Clearly still shaken yesterday, the Aberdeen woman spoke of the ordeal that
unfolded in the city early on Saturday.

The 47-year-old was driving alone at about 4.45am and had just turned off the
roundabout from North Anderson Drive on to Rosehill Drive when she saw the young
man walking down the middle of the road.

"He was walking to start with and then he was running right towards me," she
said.

"Obviously I slowed down. He ran down the road towards me and jumped on to the
bonnet.

"I actually thought he was going to just run clean over the top of my car and
keep running, but he landed on the bonnet with one foot and with the other foot
he just started kicking the window in.

"It was terrifying.

"I tried to get out of the car. I was trying to protect my face because the
window was coming in with every kick.

"I was trying to get my seatbelt off, get out of gear and put the handbrake on
all with my right hand.

"As soon as I got the door open and one leg out, he jumped off and just tore up
the road." Ms Dogan was unhurt but very badly shaken.

She said: "I was in a total panic. I just wanted to get out of that car. He was
standing there so maliciously." When her attacker, who had been with another
male further up the road, ran away, Ms Dogan got out of the car and reached for
her cigarettes.

She reckons it took several minutes to light one because she was shaking so
badly. She then called the police and was taken home by a friend.

Although the bizarre attack probably lasted only minutes, Ms Dogan said it felt
"like a long, long time".

She is now afraid to drive alone at night.

Inspector Craig Menzies of Grampian Police urged anyone who finds themselves in
danger to stay in their car and try to attract attention to themselves.

He said: "I would advise people to keep their car doors locked, especially when
travelling alone at night, and be aware of people in the vicinity of your
vehicle, especially if you are stationary.

"If something untoward does happen, lock your doors and, if you've got a mobile
phone, call 999. Do not get out of the car.

"Sound your horn, put on your hazard lights and do whatever you can to attract
attention." The attacker was in his late teens to early 20s. He has wavy
collar-length bright-orange hair, is over 6ft and skinny. He was wearing a
checked jacket, blue flared jeans, dark trainers or shoes and a dark woollen
hat.

Anyone with information should call the police on 01224 386000 or Crimestoppers
on 0800 555111.


LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2003 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        July 21, 2003, Monday Edition 1

Gang's terror attack

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 87 words


   A terrified householder was beaten up with a baseball bat by a gang of men
who forced their way into his house.

The 30-year-old victim was left with head injuries and bruising to his body
after the attack in Seaton Delaval, Northumberland. The men forced their way
into the flat in Dartford Close at 10pm last Thursday.

The victim, who was with his girlfriend at the time, was taken to North Tyneside
General Hospital.

Anyone with information should call Cramlington CID on [01661] 872555, ext
61846.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                 July 21, 2003

M-way rock attack terror

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 244 words


POLICE are hunting two yobs who sent a rock smashing through a lorry's
windscreen from a South Yorkshire motorway bridge.

The shocked lorry driver escaped injury, but was said to be very upset by the
incident, which happened on the northbound carriageway of the M18 at Bramley.

He was driving his Mercedes truck along the motorway in the early hours
yesterday when he saw two figures standing on a bridge near the Bramley
intersection.

Then his vehicle was struck by a missile - thought to be a rock - which smashed
the windscreen, showering him with glass.

The driver, who has not been named but is understood to be from Rotherham,
managed to pull over on to the hard shoulder.

He was not hurt, but was said to be shocked.

Today police were investigating, and say they are anxious to speak to anyone who
may have witnessed the incident, or can help trace the two people responsible.

A police spokesman said: The driver was just approaching Junction 1 of the M18
near Bramley when he saw two shadowy figures on a bridge.

The next thing he knew something came flying through the windscreen showering
him with glass and making a hole about the size of a man's first.

It was a rock or something like that.

The driver wasn't injured and managed to stop his vehicle. But he was very upset
at what had happened.

We are obviously anxious to trace these two people.

It was a dangerous thing to do and could have been extremely serious.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 22, 2003, Tuesday

BRITS IN BOMB HORROR;
 NINE ARE INJURED IN TERROR ATTACKS ON COSTA BLANCA MEET BRUM'S TOP LUCKY
ESCAPE: Brum tourists Lesley Sandford, above left, her daughter Terry, and son
Ben. Left, the aftermath of the Alicante blast.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 329 words


TWO bombs ripped through hotels in Spain's top resorts today injuring nine
people including a British woman.

Birmingham families were among scores of British holidaymakers caught up in the
mayhem following the explosions in Benidorm and Alicante.

The bombs, which have been blamed on the Basque terror group Eta, rocked the two
Costa Blanca resorts within minutes of each other.

Police had earlier evacuated the hotels after a telephone warning from Eta. The
injured included at least five people who were in a neighbouring building when
the bomb went off in the Hotel Residencia Bahia in central Alicante. The bomb at
the Hotel Nadal in Benidorm, which slightly injured four policemen, 'exploded 20
minutes earlier than expected,' said a spokeswoman for the resort's mayor.

A British student spoke of her shock after she was injured in the Alicante
blast.

Ellie Carr, 20, from Bury St Edmunds in Suffolk needed 20 stitches.

Speaking from her hospital bed she said: 'I was in the middle of a Spanish
lesson when there was this massive explosion and the whole building fell in
around us.'

Ellie, who was studying in a Spanish school near the hotel, went on: 'Before I
knew it, I was covered in blood. I couldn't get down the stairs. I couldn't feel
my head, but eventually I found a fire exit and ran outside.'

The two-star hotels are near beaches where thousands of tourists were
sunbathing.

In Benidorm, stunned holidaymakers stood on the crowded beach and watched the
drama unfold.

Meanwhile hundreds more Midland holidaymakers were today flying out of
Birmingham Airport to Alicante aboard five flights, two of which were being
operated by MyTravel Lite.

A spokeswoman for the company said it was in touch with the Foreign Office but
was not planning to cancel any flights.

But a spokesman said: 'The safety of our holidaymakers is our main concern and
we would ask everyone on holiday on the Costa Blanca to be vigilant.'

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 July 22, 2003

BOMB BLAST IN BENIDORM;12 INJURED IN SPANISH TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 70 words


THIS is the mangled hotel balcony in Benidorm where a bomb exploded just yards
from a crowded beach.

Terrorists also bombed a hotel in Alicante leaving a total of 12 people -
including at least one Brit - injured.

Both resorts are packed with Scots holidaymakers who have been warned to be on
the alert for further attacks.

Police blamed the blasts on the Basque terror group Eta.

FULL STORY - PAGE 3

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 22, 2003, Tuesday

TERRORIST ATTACK ON US SHIPS COULD COST $ 58BN

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 69 words


A TERRORIST attack on US shipping could cost its economy up to $ 58bn, according
to a study published yesterday, which said the benefits of tighter maritime
security far outweighed the expense. The OECD said new rules would cost ship
operators at least $ 1.3bn up front and add another $ 730m to annual operating
bills, in an industry where containers can be anonymous and ship ownership is
easily concealed.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                             July 22, 2003, Tuesday

EIGHT HURT IN BOMB ATTACKS BY TERROR GROUP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 178 words


EIGHT people were injured in bomb attacks on two Spanish holiday resorts today.

One blast ripped through a hotel in central Alicante, while another bomb
exploded at the same time in the nearby Costa Blanca resort of Benidorm - both
popular with holidaymakers from South Wales.

According to early reports, those injured in the Alicante explosion were in the
building next door to the Hotel Residencia Bahia when the bomb went off.

The area around both hotels had been evacuated after an anonymous call to Basque
newspaper Gara warning of an attack by armed terror group Eta at 11.30am British
time.

It is believed that at least four policemen were among the injured and it is
understood there were no British holidaymakers hurt.

Travel agent Lunn Poly said Alicante and Benidorm are in its top five summer
destinations for South Wales holidaymakers, while Thomas Cook said a flight was
due to leave Cardiff for Alicante this morning as part of its regular summer
service, with similar flights leaving every weekday night during the summer.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            July 23, 2003, Wednesday

'FIG LEAF' ATTACK ON UK TERROR SUSPECTS HEARINGS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 216 words


CONCESSIONS won from the US over the trials of two British terror suspects being
held at Guantanamo Bay have been dismissed by fair trials campaigners as "a fig
leaf".

Attorney-General Lord Goldsmith emerged from two days of talks with US officials
in Washington over proposed military tribunals claiming to have made
"significant progress".

He announced that Feroz Abbasi and Moazzam Begg would not face the death penalty
and would be able to pick lawyers and be tried in public - subject to security.

But his announcements on changes to the trials were called "meaningless" by fair
trials campaigners and dismissed as "outrageous" by one of the men's lawyers.

Stephen Jakobi, of Fair Trials Abroad, welcomed the decision on the death
penalty but said the concessions were no more than "the odd fig leaf on a very
ugly situation".

He said: "Everything depends on the mode of trial. Running around getting odd
concessions... is totally meaningless if the trial is fundamentally unfair."

Abbasi's solicitor Louise Christian condemned the decision to try her client
before a US military court as "outrageous".

Abbasi, 23, from London, and Begg, 35, from Birmingham were on President George
W Bush's initial list of six who could face tribunals at the Cuba air base.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 July 23, 2003

Bombs won't stop our holiday in sun;Defiant Scots jet out to Costa resorts hit
by terror attacks

BYLINE: 0by Gordon Thomson

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 506 words


SCOTS tourists flew to Spain today with a defiant message to terrorist bombers:
"You don't frighten us."

More than 200 sunseekers left Glasgow Airport early today bound for Alicante
Airport and the resorts of the Costa Blanca.

And those already in the resorts vowed not to let the blasts force them to come
home early.

Their message came after two bombs rocked the holiday resorts of Benidorm and
Alicante injuring 13 people, including an English student.

The Spanish authorities fear the attacks at hotels on the Costa Blanca signal
the start of another wave of terror by the Basque separatist movement Eta.

The bombings, at lunchtime yesterday, came as tens of thousands of Scots enjoyed
their summer holidays in Spain.

It is estimated there are more than 75,000 Scots in the region with others
flying out every day to the country's sun-kissed beaches.

The latest bombings injured 13 people including Ellie Carr, a 20-year-old
student, who was rushed to hospital with head, arm and body injuries after the
blast rocked the Hotel Residencia Bahia in Alicante.

Ms Carr, from Suffolk, was in a neighbouring school studying Spanish when the
bomb went off.

Speaking from her hospital bed, she said: "There was this massive explosion and
the building fell in around us.

"I was covered in blood. I couldn't get down the stairs. I couldn't feel my head
but eventually I found a fire exit and ran outside.

"It felt like the bomb was in the room. Two other students were hurt and are in
hospital."

David Gallagher, a 25-year-old car mechanic from Stirling, was just 500 yards
from the hotel when he heard a blast.

He said: "I was well aware that Eta had made threats in the past but never
believed we would be in the midst of it.

"People are very much on edge and wondering what will happen next.

"It all happened so fast and with very little warning."

The second explosion tore apart the Hotel Nadal in Benidorm.

Robert Kirkwood, his partner Amanda and their 18-month-old daughter were just
100 yards away when that bomb went off.

Welder Robert, 33, from Bonnybridge, Stirlingshire, said: "It was scary. There
were police sirens all around before we heard the explosion."

But the couple - like thousands of other Scots tourists - are set to defy the
bombers.

Robert said: "We have spoken to our travel rep and they are keeping us informed
of any news. But we want to continue with our holiday."

The attacks came after a telephone caller claiming to represent Eta told a
newspaper that blasts would take place at 12.30pm. The areas were evacuated but
the Benidorm blast happened 20 minutes earlier than expected.

Eta, whose tourist-area attacks last summer killed a girl of six and a 50-year
-old man, warned two weeks ago it would again attack Spain's tourism industry.

The Association of British Travel Agents said: "British tourists do not seem to
be put off by these incidents but we would urge people to be careful."

gordon.thomson@

eveningtimes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: WE'RE NOT SCARED: as workers pick through the rubble at the Benidorm
hotel, Scots are determined the attacks will not spoil their summer
holiday;FIRST WITH THE NEWS: our story yesterday

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            July 24, 2003, Thursday

BEDROOM TERROR LED TO ATTACK ON GIRL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 261 words


A TERRIFIED teenager woke up scared and screaming when a man knocked on her
bedroom window in the early hours of the morning.

Magistrates in Wrexham heard it was her mother's partner who had returned home
late and forgotten his front door key.

But it led to an argument in which he hit the girl as she lay in bed.

Gary Hughes,42,of Cross Street,Rhosddu,Wrexham, admitted assault by beating.
Town magistrates ordered him to pay pounds 250 compensation and pounds 55court
costs.

Rhian Edwards,prosecuting, said Anoosheh Bakhtiari went to bed at 11pm on June
22 and watched television until she fell asleep,leaving the lights and sound on.

"She was wok en by the sound of knocking on her bedroom window.

"She was scared and ran into her mother's bedroom. She returned to her own
bedroom while her mother went downstairs.

"A few minutes later Hughes came in and said he had forgotten his keys. She was
in bed and swore at him. He punched her in the face and tried to punch her again
but her mother pulled him off."

He then fled from the house. Hughes later told police he went to the girl's
bedroom to apologise for waking her but she swore at him and he slapped her. He
denied punching her.

Mairead Neeson,defending, said Hughes saw the girl's bedroom light on, tried to
telephone her mobile but getting no reply he put the ladder up and knocked on
the window.

"He was stunned when she gave him a lot of verbal abuse. He thought she was
hysterical and slapped her to calm her down."

He was now living with a friend in Wrexham.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 24, 2003, Thursday

HOLIDAY HELL;
 FROM TERRORIST ATTACKS AND FLIGHTS CHAOS TO HORROR HOTELS ..MIRROR

BYLINE: FENTON BRESLER AND TRAVEL EDITOR IAIN MAYHEW

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 933 words

HIGHLIGHT: BOMBSHELL: You're on your own; NOISY NEIGHBOUR: The law's on your
side; DELAY TACTIC: No compensation


JUST when you thought it was safe to go on holiday, there's a strike at Heathrow
airport and terrorists plant bombs in Spain.

Our experts explain what to do if unforseen circumstances ruin your holiday and
whether you can claim compensation.Q IN the light of the bombings in Spain this
week, what rights do I have to cancel a holiday if a bombing or riots happen
just before I go?

A FIRST, you won't get your money back. If you've booked a package holiday to
the Spanish Costas, you can't change your mind now.

The only way tour firms will even consider allowing you to alter your plans or
offer a refund is if the Foreign Office put out an "advisory notice".

It happened to Bali after the bombing last year and Hong Kong and Toronto were
put off limits during the Sars outbreak.

Check out warnings by visiting www.fco.gov.uk Booking conditions in brochures
and travel insurance policies say no liability is accepted for the consequences
of "force majeure", including terrorist activity, riots, political unrest, war,
fire, flood and so on. In serious danger a tour operator should offer to bring
you home but that's about the limit of its liability.

Q I'VE arrived at the airport and there's no sign of my flight.

ATHE strike by British Airways ground staff over new clocking-on arrangements is
set to continue and BA is embarrassed.

It's been sticking passengers up in hotels, rerouting people, paying out refunds
and generally getting a good kicking all round.

If you're caught up in it, all you can do is take a refund and book with another
carrier. Or enjoy the indoor pool at your Heathrow hotel at BA's expense.

But there is no law which says an airline must pay compensation for cancellation
or delay.

A BA spokesman says they will, on an individual basis, consider compensation
claims but not as a legal right.

Try the small claims court. The 1929 Warsaw Convention says an airline is liable
for "damage occasioned by delay", but not if it has "taken all necessary
measures to avoid the damage" or if it was impossible to do so. Those last words
would probably give BA a defence for last weekend's fiasco as the strike was at
the last moment.

But it might be worth remembering in case of further strikes.

Q THE "quiet, secluded" hotel I found in a brochure is neighbouring a
construction site and there's no "sea view".

ATHE law is on your side. The 1968 Trade Descriptions Act says that, on your
return, you can complain to local trading standards officers. Offending firms
can be fined up to pounds 5,000.

You can also sue for damages in a small claims court.

Q ALL my luggage has been lost somewhere.

AMOST "lost" luggage turns up within 24 hours. Tour operators normally claim in
their brochure they are not liable.

Do not believe it. Regulation 15 of the Package Tour Regulations says a tour
operator is liable for "proper performance of the obligations under the
contract, whether to be performed by the tour operator or by other suppliers" -
such as an airline. They are both liable.

Q I'VE got to cancel my holiday suddenly.

AWHETHER it's a family death or losing your job, if you cancel a holiday it will
cost up to 90 per cent of your deposit, depending how late you leave it.

Q MY accommodation has been changed.

ABROCHURES usually claim that the tour operator can change the resort, flights
and accommodation with some compensation. These clauses are only valid if a
judge rules they are "fair and reasonable". If not, they will be ignored.

Q THE tour reps and couriers have been useless.

ATHEY may be too keen on having a good time to take your complaint seriously but
the 1992 Package Tour Regulations say they must "make prompt efforts to find
appropriate solutions".

You must complain to them in person and make a written note. In several cases
substantial damages have been reduced because a complaint was not made to the
courier.

Q I'VE been struck down with food poisoning.

ABADLY cooked food, poor refrigeration and dirty crockery can cause health
problems. In one case, a family of five won pounds 5,222 from a tour operator
after food poisoning in Turkey.

QOUR holiday has been des- troyed by an accident.

ATHE 1992 Package Tour Regulations state a tour operator has to carry the can
for its foreign associates and can be sued for an accident abroad, even though
it's not itself to blame. In Crete, a 20-year-old Lancashire man fell from his
third-floor balcony at 3.30am, paralysing himself from the neck down. The
railing was only 797 millimetres high - OK by local standards but in Britain it
would have had to be 1,100 millimetres. His lawyers won a pounds 1million
out-of-court settlement from the tour operator.

QTHE tour operator has gone bust.

AIT is the ultimate horror but the Package Tour Regulations say all tour firms
must deposit financial security with an insurance company or bank sufficient to
bail out their customers in the event of collapse.

Not everyone obeys this but there are three organisations whose members do:
Association of British Travel Agents (ABTA), Air Travel Organiser's Licence
(ATOL) and Association of Independent Tour Operators (AITO).

How to complain

-COMPLAIN to the courier while you are away.

-ON your return, write to Customer Services at the tour operator's head office.
Enclose any useful photographs: the revolting food, the non-view of the sea,
etc. Always keep copies. Do not post audio or video tapes. Write saying you can
produce them.

-WRITE a strongly worded letter and keep up the pressure.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            July 26, 2003, Saturday

NOTORIOUS GANGSTER BIG JIM SURVIVED A SHOOTING, A PETROL BOMB AND A HEART
ATTACK. NOW HIS REIGN OF TERROR HAS BEEN ENDED ..BY A KILLER PARROT!;
 CROOK FINALLY NAILED BY BIRD BUG

BYLINE: CAROLYN CHURCHILL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 416 words

HIGHLIGHT: CARRIER: A rosella parrot gave Big Jim the fatal bug; OVERLORD:
Anderson


A GANGLAND boss who survived petrol bombs, bullets and a heart attack has
finally died - after catching pneumonia from a parrot.

Scots hardman James "Big Jim" Anderson had built up a fearsome reputation on the
streets of Sydney, Australia, where he ran bars, strip joints and nightclubs.

Well-known to the Aussie police, he was even a suspect in one of their biggest
unsolved murders, when a woman went missing after being seen in one of his Kings
Cross clubs.

Having clearly made a few enemies along the way, Glasgow-born Anderson survived
at least two attempts on his life.

But now a bird has succeeded where his underworld rivals failed.

The 73-year-old caught avian pneumonia after feeding rosella parrots in
Australia's picturesque Blue Mountains.

Doctors battled to save him, but he was also diagnosed with cancer just days
before he died.

Yesterday, Sydney newspaper reporter Neil Mercer described Anderson as an
"overlord of the underworld".

But he added: "While Anderson had a fearsome temper, throughout his life he
mostly maintained a cheery disposition.

"His typical farewell was: 'Remember, mate, every day's a bonus'."

Son of ship and railway worker William, Anderson left school in Glasgow at the
age of 16.

He then joined the Royal Marines before trying his hand at various jobs,
including a traffic cop in New Zealand.

But he moved Down Under for good in the late 1950s.

There, Big Jim met notorious crime boss Abe Saffron.

Among the contacts he made through Saffron was fellow crook Donny "The Glove"
Smith.

One night in 1970, Smith - who famously wore a lead-lined glove - broke
Anderson's jaw.

Big Jim reacted by shooting him three times - once in the chest and twice in the
back.

Three years later, Anderson was burned when a petrol bomb exploded in a
nightclub.

And, 10 years on, he again escaped after shots were fired at him.

But Big Jim was himself linked to a murder probe, when Juanita Nielson went
missing after being seen at his Carousel club in 1975.

Although Anderson was charged with various offences, he was never convicted.

Then, in the 1980s, he became an informer for the National Crime Authority,
after falling out with Saffron. As a result, Saffron was sent to jail for tax
fraud.

Following a heart attack in 1995, Big Jim - who had two sons and two
grandchildren - moved to the Blue Mountains.

And it was there that around 30 mourners paid their last respects at his
funeral.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The News of the World

                                 July 27, 2003

SECRET FILE WARNS OF TERROR BOMB ATTACK INSIDE JAIL

BYLINE: Martin Breen

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 478 words


    A REAL IRA plot to break into Maghaberry Prison and blow it up from the
inside has been uncovered by Special Branch officers.

    A chilling document handed to the News of the World reveals that the
dissident republican terrorists also plan to murder scores of jail staff during
the break-in.

    The strategy involves ramming the prison gates with a vehicle and -in
separate actions -detonating a series of bombs at different locations and
attacking prison warders at home.

    Police believe the campaign of terror is designed to make the prisons issue
the biggest crisis Northern Ireland has seen for years.

    A security warning given to a number of Maghaberry Prison staff states:
"Dissident republicans are planning to carry out some form of attack on the
perimeter fence in order to break into the prison complex to highlight their
campaign for segregation.

    Security

    "For this reason the areas around the police fence, inside and out, remain
out of bounds to all staff."

    The province's largest prison currently has 1,194 prisoners, around 200 more
than during the same period last year, and security is at an all-time high.

    In the late 1970s and 1980s, the Provisional IRA launched attacks on prison
staff in a bid to have political status granted for its inmates. But this is
believed to be the first time a terror group has plotted to break INTO a prison
to attack it from within.

    A senior police source said: "It is like a plot from an action movie but our
information comes from a very reliable source and there will be very dangerous
days ahead."

    Details of the terrorists' plans were passed to the Special Branch by
informers inside the Real IRA, which was behind the 1998 Omagh bombing that
claimed 29 lives. Prison chiefs fear a large-scale attack could lead to mass
murder as there are already severe staffing problems at the Co Antrim jail.

    A News of the World investigation has discovered that around one in five
warders is currently off sick.

    Prison Officers' Association chairman Finlay Spratt told the News of the
World his warders are terrified as republicans intensify their campaign for
segregated cell blocks away from loyalists.

    He said: "The high level of sick leave is due to staff facing threats and
intimidation. There are attacks going on and there is a fear that someone could
lose their life.

    "We are all concerned about it. As far as the government policy is concerned
there is to be no segregation and it is our job to enforce that policy even
though it is proving very difficult."

    Within the past month, Real IRA and Continuity IRA prisoners have mounted a
dirty protest and smeared their own excrement on cell walls. Furniture in cells
has also been smashed.

    Several loyalist and republican inmates last month staged a rooftop protest
at Maghaberry in opposition to conditions there.


LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Lancashire Evening Post

                                 July 28, 2003

Terror attacks hit profits at airports

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post

LENGTH: 50 words


Airports operator BAA today said the cost of recruiting 1,000 extra security
staff since the US terror attacks had left a mark on profits.

Unveiling first quarter figures for the three months to June 30, BAA reported a
5.6% decline in operating profits at its UK business to £136m.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Lancashire Evening Post

                                 July 28, 2003

Couple in doberman attack terror

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post

LENGTH: 281 words


A young couple were viciously savaged by a dog as they walked home from the pub.

A Doberman pounced on the man and woman as they walked along Cemetery Road,
Ribbleton, Preston, at midnight on Friday.

They had been drinking nearby shortly before the animal bit into their clothes
and legs and left them shaken.

While they were being bitten, the woman's handbag went missing.

Today, detectives investigating the attack described it as violent and said they
were desperate to find the animal, which is still on the loose and may attack
again.

The couple, both in their early 20s, suffered bites to their bodies and shock.

Police said today that the dog was apparently with a gang of youths shortly
before the attack.

While the animal attacked them, it is alleged the couple were beaten and the
woman was robbed of a handbag. She lost a purse and a small amount of cash.

Det Sgt Simon Ingham from Preston CID, said: A dog ran towards them and

while it was attacking them, they were robbed.

We are very concerned about the actual dog itself because it is out of control
and, being involved in such an attack, it could attack another person or a young
child.

We haven't found the dog yet and we're anxious to find out who owns it.

It was particularly violent and quite a serious attack by the dog.

Earlier this year, a man suffered horrendous injuries when his pet dog turned on
him in his own home.

John McGrath, 39, of Main Road, Bolton-le-Sands, near Carnforth, suffered
serious bites to both arms when the Staffordshire bull terrier cross savaged
him.

The dog was later shot dead by a police marksman who had stormed the house
dressed in riot gear.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                 July 28, 2003

Doris, 90, living in terror after attacks

SOURCE: Yorkshire Evening Post

LENGTH: 421 words


BY ANDREW HUTCHINSON



PENSIONER Doris Overton is terrified to leave her home after being attacked in
the street twice in four months.

The 90-year-old widow was walking home along Springhead Road in Oakwood last
week when she had her bag snatched off her arm by a teenager.

The impact pulled the pensioner to the ground and left her with a broken
collarbone and chipped shoulder blade.

Mrs Overton, who uses a walking stick, told the Yorkshire Evening Post: I did
not hear any footsteps behind me. He gave my arm such a horrendous wrench the
straps off my bag came off. I just fell to the ground and could not get up
again.

It can't describe the pain. I was in absolute agony. I could hardly breathe it
hurt that much. I felt sick.

Mrs Overton is now back at home at her flat after receiving treatment for her
injuries at St James's Hospital in Leeds.

I cannot understand why someone would want to do this to me.

They could see I had a walking stick. It is despicable. They made off with £30
which is a lot of money to me.

The retired caterer said she supported Leeds City Council's crackdown on
anti-social behaviour, backed by the YEP's Target the Yobs campaign, which aims
to tackle crime and loutish behaviour.

The police need to get tough and the punishment needs to fit the crime, she
said.

I would hate anyone to go through what I have been through. I am afraid to walk
the streets.

When I go to church with my friends we go as a group because we fear something
could happen.

Second time

Mrs Overton said the attack, at 10.15am on Thursday, July 24, was the second
mugging she had suffered in four months.

In April she was targeted by a man who jumped out of a parked car and stole her
bag.

Luckily my walking stick kept me on my feet. she said.

She said she liked to keep independent but the mugging had changed her outlook.

I go to church and nursing home and to see friends. I like to help people, she
said.

But the attack has frightened me to death. I won't be going out again for a
while.

Acting Chief Inspector Paul Fountain of Chapeltown Police said: This was a
cowardly attack on an elderly lady in broad daylight and it has left her badly
shocked.

Mrs Overton's attacker was described as white, aged around 14-years-old, around
5ft 7ins to 5ft 8ins tall, with dark collar length hair.

He was wearing blue denim jeans.

? Anyone with any information is asked to contact Chapeltown Police on (0113)
2413259.

andrew.hutchinson@ypn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 30, 2003

Fury at plan for betting on terror attacks

BYLINE: WILLIAM LOWTHER

SECTION: ED_4TH; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 287 words


THE Pentagon last night withdrew a plan that would have allowed the placing of
bets on the likelihood of terrorist attacks.

The possibility of the assassination of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat or a
political event such as the overthrow of Jordan's King Abdullah would have been
features of the scheme.

It would have worked as in a stock exchange futures market where investors buy
shares in what they think is going to happen.

Background information would have been provided by the London-based Economist
Intelligence Unit. The Pentagon had allocated 5million to set in place the
proposed Policy Analysis Market.

It was thought that the more businessmen who 'bought', the more likely an event
was to happen.

Wall Street traders would have been invited to buy and sell contracts on
possibilities.

If it happened within an agreed period, the investor would be paid an agreed
price but if it didn't he would lose his money.

Senator Ron Wyden said: 'The idea of a federal betting parlour on atrocities and
terrorism is grotesque.

Senator Byron Dorgan said: 'How would you feel if you were the King of Jordan
and you learned the U.S. defence department was taking bets on your being
overthrown?' Dr Christine Gray, of the Counter Terrorism Institute, said: 'A
terror group could bet that a Middle East leader would be assassinated and make
a fortune carrying that out. The idea is obscene.' A Pentagon source said: 'We
intended to use the information to prevent such an assassination. Thus the
market would have benefited people like Arafat.' U.S.

Deputy Secretary of Defence Paul Wolfowitz said of Pentagon planners: 'It sounds
like maybe they got too imaginative in this case.'

END

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 July 30, 2003

CLEAN-UP CAMPAIGNER IN GANG ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: By John Staples

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 174 words


A WOMAN who has campaigned against vandalism and violence saw her husband
attacked by a gang outside their home.

Tracie McGhee, 32, screamed for help while the thugs kicked and punched Stephen,
34.

The couple's ordeal began when Tracie returned home in her car, which was
surrounded by about 30 teenagers.

They started punching the bodywork before one jumped on the bonnet and kicked in
the windscreen.

Then, as Stephen came out to see what was happening, he too was attacked. He
suffered three fractured ribs, had internal injuries, and needed six stitches in
his head following the attack late last Friday.

The couple, from the Johnstone Castle estate in Johnstone, Renfrewshire, both
stood as SNP candidates at the May elections, with Tracie campaigning strongly
against violence and vandalism.

She said: " I don't think this was any kind of reprisal. It is just that we were
easy targets.

"The sad thing is I know some of these boys and have campaigned for more
facilities for them. This is how they repay me."

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 31, 2003, Thursday

Cost of terrorist attack insurance falls by half

BYLINE: Christine Seib

SECTION: Business; 25

LENGTH: 282 words


THE cost of insuring London's most prestigious buildings against a terrorist
attack has plunged 50 per cent this summer, The Times has learnt.

Insurers at Lloyd's of London, the insurance market, have undercut Pool Re, the
Government's own terrorism insurance scheme.

As a result, commercial property terrorism cover is the cheapest it has been
since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the US.

Chris James, an associate director at Aon, the insurance broker, said the cost
of terrorism cover had initially rocketed by up to 400 per cent after the
September 11 attacks on America.

But yesterday he said it was now about 200 per cent higher than in the
pre-September 11 market, mainly because some Lloyd's insurers had re-entered the
market with very competitive rates.

Most insurers offer terrorism cover backed by Pool Re. Under Pool Re's rules,
insurers must cover their clients' entire property portfolio, rather than single
properties.

If companies want to insure their expensive London headquarters against
terrorism, but not necessarily their small regional offices, buying cover can
tend towards the expensive.

This is because the Pool Re-backed insurers must include the cost of the entire
property portfolio in the premium.

Liberty Syndicates and Talbot Underwriting are among the few Lloyd's insurers
that do not reinsure with Pool Re.

Unconstrained by Pool Re's rules, they offer bespoke cover for single prestige
buildings.

Andrew Elliott, an underwriting director at Liberty, said: "If a client can't
get what they want elsewhere, we'll look at putting together something for them
(but) we select our risks very carefully."


LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                August 01, 2003

US claims Iraq hosts al-Qaida;
 Commander claims bin Laden's terror group involved in attacks

BYLINE: by Our Foreign Desk

SECTION:  Pg. 2

LENGTH: 382 words


AL-QAIDA is probably among the "terrorist" groups operating against US forces in
Iraq, the US commander in the country Lieutenant-General Ricardo Sanchez claimed
yesterday.

Attacks on his troops are getting more sophisticated and more deadly, Lt-Gen
Sanchez said, with "professionals" clearly involved. But he insisted that US
forces were learning from their reverses.

Yesterday's reverses included the killing of a US soldier and the wounding of
three others when their armoured personnel carrier ran over a mine near the big
US base at Baghdad airport.

In central Baghdad, a man fired a rocket-propelled grenade at a US tank - and
missed - before sprinting off. Soldiers later found a grenade launcher lying on
the street outside a nearby house and arrested a man inside.

And a US spokesman said that a soldier from the 4th Infantry Division had been
killed and two others wounded by fighters who had attacked an army base
northeast of Baghdad just before midnight on Wednesday. Four attackers were
wounded when troops returned fire.

Lt-Gen Sanchez said earlier this week that Iraq was becoming a "terrorist
magnet" for anti-US groups. Asked if Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network was
among those present, he replied:

"They probably are operating in Iraq."

Suggestions that ousted dictator Saddam Hussein might be cooperating with
al-Qaida were floated among possible grounds for the US-led invasion, although
there is no evidence of this and bin Laden was a fierce critic of Saddam's
secular regime.

Lt-Gen Sanchez said that an increasing sophistication in attacks on his forces
had contributed to greater casualties of late.

Nineteen soldiers have been killed in the past two weeks alone, out of 52 in
three months since President George W Bush declared major combat over.

US governor of Iraq Paul Bremer said that democratic elections could be held
within a year to end the Anglo-US occupation.

"It is not unrealistic to think we could possibly have general elections by
mid-2004 and that is when our work here will be done, " Mr Bremer said at the
reopening of the looted and fire-ravaged Foreign Ministry.

But Washington has yet to capture the man it invaded Iraq to depose or the
banned weapons which it said justified military action.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003

               Copyright 2003 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Eastern Daily Press

                                 August 2, 2003

A young mother assaulted by her ex-boyfriend spoke last night of her terror
-filled life since the attack.

BYLINE: SMITHA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 330 words


A young mother assaulted by her ex-boyfriend spoke last night of her
terror-filled life since the attack.

Beverley Warren, 24, of Sotterley, near Beccles, had her jaw broken by Leon Dyer
in Lowestoft, when he attacked her while she was on a rare evening out.

Dyer, 20, yesterday pleaded guilty to assault and causing grievous bodily harm
with intent.

He will be sentenced at Ipswich Crown Court next month.

But Miss Warren is already a virtual prisoner, too afraid to go out for longer
than half an hour at a time and forced to drink liquid meals through a straw.

She said her life had been a nightmare since the incident in May, but wanted to
thank the people who stepped in to help during the attack.

"I don't know who the people were, but I don't know what would have happened to
me if they hadn't done anything. I am so grateful."

Just after the attack, Miss Dyer had to stay in hospital for two nights to have
a steel plate fitted in her jaw.

But that broke a few weeks ago and she has now had to have her jaws wired
together to keep it in place.

She has lost weight because for more than two months she has not been able to
eat anything but milkshakes through a straw.

And she said her two-year-old son, who is not Dyer's, had been very distressed
when she first came out of hospital sporting heavy bruises and cuts.

"It's been awful. My son is the only thing that's kept me going. I don't know
what I'd have done without him.

"My mum tried to take me into Norwich on Saturday, but I broke down in tears and
begged her to take me home.

"Hopefully, one day it'll be better. Knowing he's being dealt with makes it
easier and I'm glad he pleaded guilty, so I don't have to go through with a
trial."

Miss Dyer said her relationship with Dyer had been quite short and rocky, but
nothing prepared her for the attack.

"I can't remember a lot about it, but it has really made me afraid of being out
alone.

"I still can't manage that.&quot

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2003

                   © Copyright 2003 Eastern Daily Press (EDP)

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Eastern Daily Press

                                 August 2, 2003

A young mother assaulted by her ex-boyfriend spoke last night of her terror
-filled life since the attack.

BYLINE: SMITHA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 325 words


A young mother assaulted by her ex-boyfriend spoke last night of her
terror-filled life since the attack.

Beverley Warren, 24, of Sotterley, near Beccles, had her jaw broken by Leon Dyer
in Lowestoft, when he attacked her while she was on a rare evening out.

Dyer, 20, yesterday pleaded guilty to assault and causing grievous bodily harm
with intent.

He will be sentenced at Ipswich Crown Court next month.

But Miss Warren is already a virtual prisoner, too afraid to go out for longer
than half an hour at a time and forced to drink liquid meals through a straw.

She said her life had been a nightmare since the incident in May, but wanted to
thank the people who stepped in to help during the attack."I don't know who the
people were, but I don't know what would have happened to me if they hadn't done
anything. I am so grateful."

Just after the attack, Miss Dyer had to stay in hospital for two nights to have
a steel plate fitted in her jaw.

But that broke a few weeks ago and she has now had to have her jaws wired
together to keep it in place.

She has lost weight because for more than two months she has not been able to
eat anything but milkshakes through a straw.

And she said her two-year-old son, who is not Dyer's, had been very distressed
when she first came out of hospital sporting heavy bruises and cuts."It's been
awful. My son is the only thing that's kept me going. I don't know what I'd have
done without him."My mum tried to take me into Norwich on Saturday, but I broke
down in tears and begged her to take me home."Hopefully, one day it'll be
better. Knowing he's being dealt with makes it easier and I'm glad he pleaded
guilty, so I don't have to go through with a trial."

Miss Dyer said her relationship with Dyer had been quite short and rocky, but
nothing prepared her for the attack."I can't remember a lot about it, but it has
really made me afraid of being out alone. "I still can't manage that."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2003

                   © Copyright 2003 Eastern Daily Press (EDP)

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                                 August 2, 2003

Guard's terror in gun attack

BYLINE: Steve Wright (steve.wright@bradford.newsquest.co.uk)

LENGTH: 407 words


A teenage security guard today spoke of his terror as he was repeatedly clubbed
over the head with the handle of a gun by an armed robber.

Jasim Khan 18 needed 16 stitches in three head wounds and suffered a hairline
fracture of the skull when he was attacked after disturbing the raiders.

Jasim who was in only the third week of his job as a security guard was ambushed
as he walked to the office at the back of the Co-op store in Thorp Garth Idle on
Sunday night.

"I had gone with the supervisor as he took the till with the day's takings to
the office and then I returned to patrol the shop " said Jasim speaking from his
terraced home in Great Horton.

"I thought it was a bit peculiar that there was nobody in the shop so I returned
to the back to check everything was all right.

"As I walked towards the office I noticed a man hiding behind the big meat
fridge near the back delivery door. He was wearing a balaclava and I could see
he was holding a gun down by his side.

"I turned to look at the office and the next thing I saw the man waving the gun
at me and then he suddenly started hitting me over the head with the butt of the
gun.

"I knew what was going to happen but I had no time to do anything about it. I
had my hands up trying to stop him but he whacked me with the gun several times.
I saw the blood gushing down my head. It was pouring down my face and clothes. I
was frightened and scared."

Jasim was left bleeding on the floor as the robber fled with two accomplices who
had stolen the day's takings of more than £2 000.

"The police told me the robbers held a gun to the head of the supervisor to get
the cash but he wasn't harmed " the teenager added.

Jasim said he was having flashbacks about the attack and had not been able to
sleep. But he vowed: "When I am fit again I will be back at work."

His father Tause revealed he had also been a robbery victim two years ago. "I
was working in a shop and two men came in and tried to rob me. One of them had a
gun but I chased them off and caught the gunman " he said.

Sunday's attack was one of two armed robberies targeting security staff in
Bradford in the space of 12 hours.

A guard was robbed at gunpoint outside Thornbury Post Office just after 9am on
Monday morning by two Asian men who were dressed in traditional Asian women's
clothes.

Anyone with information about either attack should cal (01274) 376259.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                 August 3, 2003

PRESSURE IS MOUNTING ON THE WHITE HOUSE TO PUBLISH THE CLASSIFIED PART OF A
CONGRESSIONAL REPORT ON THE TERRORIST ATTACKS OF 11 SEPTEMBER WHICH DEALS WITH
THE ROLE OF SAUDI ARABIA, AS SOURCES IN WASHINGTON TELL THE BUSINESS THAT THE
BUSH ADMINISTRATION HAS DONE A SECRET DEAL TO COVER UP SAUDI INVOLVEMENT IN
RETURN FOR A SAUDI GUARANTEE OF CHEAP OIL.

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 482 words


Pressure is mounting on the White House to publish the classified part of a
congressional report on the terrorist attacks of 11 September which deals with
the role of Saudi Arabia, as sources in Washington tell The Business that the
Bush administration has done a secret deal to cover up Saudi involvement in
return for a Saudi guarantee of cheap oil.

Forty-six Democrat senators asked late last week that the deleted material be
released, as leaks of what it contained appeared to implicate several Saudis
with links to the Saudi government. Republicans, including senator Richard
Shelby of Alabama, a former Senate Intelligence Committee chairman, have also
called for its release.

President Bush has maintained that the classified material cannot be released
for security reasons, but suspicion is growing in Washington that it is to
protect Saudi Arabia from increasing US hostility.

The Business has learned from sources close to the administration that an
informal deal has been struck whereby the Saudis continue to pump oil at
sufficient levels to stabilise the world price while the US government hushes up
possible official Saudi involvement in 11 September.

The Bush administration expects the Saudis to use their influence in Opec, the
oil cartel of which they are the most important member, to agree production
levels that will keep oil prices in the Opec target range of $22-$28. It is
understood that the arrangement covers not just a risk to oil supplies from the
Middle East but the political or industrial disruption of supplies from
unreliable producers like Nigeria and Venezuela.

Last week the Saudis kept their part of the deal by persuading Opec to agree
production levels that would maintain prices at the upper end of the $22-$28
target range.

The president has been encouraged by his officials to sanction this arrangement
with the Saudis because it is taking far longer than anticipated to increase
output in Iraq, where production is still far short of pre-war levels of over
2.5m barrels per day (bpd). Predictions that Iraqi output could be quickly
increased over the next 18 months to 4m or even 6m bpd have proved to be
over-optimistic.

The Bush-Saudi deal, however, is threatened by a growing clamour in Washington
for the release of classified material detailing Saudi involvement in 11
September. A leak in Saturday's New York Times claimed that it shows that "two
Saudi citizens who had at least indirect links with two hijackers were probably
Saudi intelligence agents and may have reported to Saudi government officials".

The unpublished pages of the congressional report, produced by a joint panel of
the House and Senate intelligence committees, name two Saudi citizens who had
extensive financial relationships with Saudi government officials and extensive
contacts with two of the hijackers in San Diego in early 2000.


LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2003 Sunday Business Group

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Blackpool Gazette

                                 August 4, 2003

WOMAN SHOT IN TERROR ATTACK

SOURCE: Blackpool Gazette

LENGTH: 307 words


A NIGHT out ended in horror when a woman was shot in the shoulder by someone
armed with an air rifle.

The victim had been out with a group of friends when she was struck by a pellet
as she began to make her way home at around about midnight last night.

Police were alerted to the incident by CCTV operators but the attacker is still
at large despite a thorough search of the area being made by officers.

The woman, who has not been named but is from Freckleton, was taken to Blackpool
Victoria Hospital by ambulance where she was treated for her injury before being
discharged.

She was shot as she walked along Abingdon Street, close to Cheapside, with a
group of friends. She then made her way to outside the Schofields cafe bar on
Clifton Street.

Deborah Williams, team leader at Blackpool Police control unit, said it was
believed the shot had been fired at random.

She added: Further investigations into this incident, which is being treated
seriously, are continuing today.

This woman was with a group of friends enjoying a night out and in such
circumstances, the last thing you expect is to be shot at with an air rifle and
to end up in hospital.

It is not known where the shot was fired from, or from what range, although
among the lines of inquiry is that it came from premises on Abingdon Street. An
immediate search of the area failed to detect the gunman or woman.

Further inquiries were being made today.

Air rifles can cause serious injuries. In another recent incident, a 15-year-old
boy was struck in the head when he was shot with an air rifle in the Jean
Stansfield Memorial Park in Poulton. A man was later arrested and sentenced to a
12 month community rehabilitation order.

The latest incident comes as The Gazette launches a special investigation into
youth nuisance issues and disorder.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 4, 2003

Price of preaching against terror: Priest forced out after attacking Eta
violence from the pulpit

BYLINE: Giles Tremlett in Maruri

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 814 words


The large, honey-coloured church of San Lazaro in the Basque village of Maruri
was, for once, full to overflowing yesterday as the outspoken local priest,
Father Jaime Larrinaga, oversaw his final Mass while armed bodyguards stood at
the double wooden doors.

After 36 years in which he has baptised most people in this tranquil village
near Bilbao, Father Larrinaga told the crowded church he had been hounded out by
a local council which had turned him into a terrorist target for the armed
Basque separatist group Eta.

"I have defined myself as an opponent of terrorism and that is why I have been
persecuted," he told the faithful during his sermon.

His departure from Maruri marked a new peak in an increasingly bitter battle
between the Madrid government of the conservative prime minister Jose Maria
Aznar and the non-violent Basque Nationalist party which runs the region's
semi-autonomous government.

Father Larrinaga's supporters claimed his "expulsion" from Maruri was part of a
sinister campaign of political cleansing being carried out by the Basque
Nationalist party, which controls the local council, with the implicit support
of Eta.

They said the priest's criticisms of Eta and his broadsides against both Basque
Nationalist party leader Xavier Arzalluz and the largely nationalist-friendly
Basque church for being soft on terrorism had led to his being driven out.

His name, they said, could now be added to a long list of non-nationalist
academics, journalists, politicians and businessmen forced to leave the Basque
country because their lives were threatened by Eta or made unbearable by the
nationalists.

"Today both Eta and Arzalluz are rubbing their hands because they have managed
to drive out someone who does not think like them," Carlos Iturgaiz, a regional
leader of Mr Aznar's People's party, declared as he walked into the Maruri
church yesterday.

For Basque nationalists, however, the Larrinaga affair was the result of a
campaign directed against them by Mr Aznar. Mr Aznar, they claimed, was trying
to dirty their party's name by suggesting it was hand-in-hand with Eta,
hell-bent on creating an ethnically and politically pure Basque state cleansed
of those who would rather be Spanish.

The priest had been sucked into that campaign, they said, turning him into a
political figure whose ideas were diametrically opposed to those of his
parishioners.

Father Larrinaga's problems started last year when, as head of a group of Basque
clerics campaigning for a tougher church line against Eta, he gave a newspaper
interview denouncing what he saw as the complicity of Basque nationalists with
the terrorists.

Maruri's Basque nationalist mayor, Joseba Alzaga, sent a letter to every
household accusing the priest of showing "nostalgia for the (former dictator)
General Franco".

Father Larrinaga's reply was to claim that the mayor's words had, effectively,
placed him on Eta's hit list.

He requested, and got, an interior ministry bodyguard - a standard measure of
protection given to outspoken critics of Eta in the Basque country.

Eta has killed more than 800 people over the past 30 years and has recently
targeted academics and journalists who are outspoken critics. It has never,
however, attacked a priest.

"Larrinaga is either being paranoid or vain," replied Mr Arzalluz.

Most of the village - which overwhelmingly votes Basque Nationalist and where
even church services are in the local language of euskara - turned against him.

There were protests outside the church on Sundays and a boycott of his services.

With no children arriving for catechism classes and only a handful of people at
Sunday Mass, he finally decided to quit.

Yesterday it was hard to find anyone in Maruri prepared to support their priest
in public. "He is a nice man. But sometimes you should just keep your politics
to yourself.

"The older people are specially upset," explained Estanislao Fernandez.

In the Jan-Toki Iruna bar clients accused Father Larrinaga of lying.

"He would show people photographs of pro-Eta graffiti and say they came from
here.

"But you don't get that in Maruri," said one.

"He should have stayed away from politics. I wonder who put him up to it?" asked
another.

Father Larrinaga's accusation that people in the town were too cowed to protest
against Mayor Alzaga's nationalists was, however, born out by the handful of
parishioners who went to Mass yesterday but fled from the press.

"Don't talk to me about it. He has done many good things for me over the past 36
years," said one woman who burst into tears.

"I have kept coming to Mass every Sunday.

"I'd better not talk about it though, otherwise you know what happens,"
explained an elderly man in a large black Basque beret as he symbolically zipped
his lips closed.

guardian.co.uk/spain


LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 August 6, 2003

Hotel bomb linked to terror network;Carnage as suicide attack kills 13 in
capital of Indonesia

BYLINE: William Tinning

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 702 words


A GROUP with links to al Qaeda is suspected of being behind an apparent suicide
bomb blast on an American-owned hotel which yesterday killed at least 13 people
and wounded more than 150 others in Jakarta, the Indonesian capital.

The 33-storey Marriott Hotel, popular with foreigners and often used for US
Embassy functions, became an inferno when a vehicle packed with explosives blew
up on the drive near its front entrance during the busy lunch hour.

A Dutchman was among the dead while two Americans, two Singaporeans, an
Australian, and a New Zealander were among those hurt.

Emergency workers said the casualty toll would have been much higher if many of
the staff and guests from the hotel, which was operating at 77% capacity, had
not been evacuated before the blast.

Police said the explosion bore similarities to last October's Bali bombings in
two nightclubs, which killed 202 people, most of them Australian holidaymakers.

The White House called yesterday's attack a "deplorable attack on innocent
civilians" and declared its support for the Indonesian government's fight
against terrorism.

No-one claimed responsibility for the blast but suspicion immediately fell on
the organisation blamed for the Bali attack - Jemaah Islamiyah, the the al
Qaeda-linked group which is fighting for a pan-Islamic state in south-east Asia.

The blast happened two days before the expected verdict in the trial of Amrozi
bin Nurhasyim, a key suspect in the Bali bombings.

Abu Bakar Bashir, the alleged leader of Jemaah Islamiyah, took the stand for the
first time yesterday at a treason trial over a series of bombings in 2000. He
denies any links to terrorism.

However, during his testimony, which occurred before the Marriott explosion, he
admitted giving his "blessings" to militants who trained in the

southern Philippines and Afghanistan in the 1990s.

Sutiyoso, the governor of Jakarta, said the attack on the Marriott was "very
likely" carried out by a suicide bomber. General Da'i Bachtiar, the national
police chief, refused to speculate on the cause, but confirmed the vehicle was
moving at the time of the explosion.

In the Bali attack, a suicide bomber detonated his bomb moments before an
explosives-laden van blew up across the street.

The blast blew out many windows at the Marriott. Its lobby was covered in
charred sofas, overturned tables and caved-in ceilings. Two badly burned bodies
were left on the forecourt, witnesses said.

Puddles of blood and shattered glass were evident across neighbouring buildings.
Inside a ground-floor restaurant of an adjacent building, half-eaten pasta
dishes remained on tables covered in broken plates and glass.

"Women ran out of the hotel screaming 'help, help'," said Supria, a 40-year-old
construction worker, adding that rescuers aimed fire extinguishers at people
engulfed in flames.

Lin, an office worker in a building next door, said: "I thought a plane must
have hit the building."

Megawati Sukarnoputri, the Indonesian president who recently expressed a desire
to destroy terror networks in the world's largest Muslim nation, toured the
scene.

Later the government ordered an immediate strengthening of its anti-terrorist
laws and also invited Australian police to help in the hunt for those
responsible.

The United States urgently renewed its calls for Americans in Indonesia to
follow tighter personal security measures.

A White House spokesman said: "This is a deplorable attack on innocent
civilians. We fully support President Megawati and her administration in their
efforts to fight terror and rout out terrorism and we stand ready to help in any
way to help bring those responsible to justice."

The Foreign Office said it was not aware of any Britons being killed or injured
in the explosion. It said the incident reinforced advice against travelling to
Indonesia at this time.

The Dutch citizen killed in the blast was named as Hans Winkelmolen, 49,
president of PT Rabobank Duta Indonesia, a subsidiary of Dutch co-operative bank
Rabobank.

He had been in Jakarta since 2000 and was preparing to follow his family back
home to the Netherlands at the end of the month.

LOAD-DATE: August 06, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Map not available in database;OFF LIMITS: Police order photographers
away from the Marriott hotel in Jakarta, where a powerful blast killed 13 people
yesterday.  Picture: Achmad Ibrahim/AP

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The NorthEast

                                 August 6, 2003

Expert teams set to fight diseases and terror attacks

LENGTH: 471 words

DATELINE: The North East


Specialist teams will be set up across the North-East to fight the spread of
deadly diseases and guard against terror attacks.

The experts - who will be drawn from local hospital staff - will be told to
prevent and control infections ranging from tuberculosis to horror diseases such
as Sars.

They will also be responsible for identifying symptoms of illness caused by food
poisoning a chemical leak or hazards such as power stations electricity pylons
or mobile phones.

And they will act as an early warning system to alert the public to any terror
attack and improve the response of the emergency services.

Teams are likely to be set up to cover the same areas as police forces which
means separate bodies for Northumberland Durham Cleveland and North Yorkshire.

They will fall under the umbrella of the new Health Protection Agency
(HPA)following fears of confusion over who is currently responsible for
emergency planning.

Sir William Stewart the HPA's chairman said: "The global threats to health have
moved on and so must we. It's time to step up our health defences.

The speed and ease of global travel means there is much greater potentialfor the
rapid transmission of infectious diseases. The SARS experiencedemonstrated that
a new bug can spread around the world in days.

Alongside this our climate is changing bringing the potential of more
insect-borne disease resistance to antibiotics is a growing concern and there is
increasing public concern about the long-term effects of chemicals on health.

The added threat of the deliberate release of harmful agents means we haveto
ensure our health services are as fully prepared as possible to pick upand
respond to any incident.

More than 800 people mainly in China and Hong Kong have died from the flu-like
Sars (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) virus this year.

And the spread of TB sparked calls from the Tories for all immigrants entering
the UK to be screened for infectious diseases - and denied entry if they were
likely to be a burden on the NHS.

The HPA's 80-page plan highlights the need to develop standardised laboratory
tests for biological agents to make sure any chemical attack is spotted quickly.

And it calls for the NHS and local councils to set up systems to investigate
"suspicious clusters" of diseases which could be linked to chemical exposure.

Plans are also underway to develop new swab tests for whooping cough and
syphilis to replace risky and time consuming blood tests.

This would end the risk of "needle stick" injuries for staff in clinics who
currently have to use a syringe to test for the sexually transmitted disease.

Another major concern is the risk to health from long-term exposure to chemicals
such as those emitted from landfills incinerators and industrial sites.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 August 6, 2003

Terror attack kills 13 at Jakarta hotel

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 621 words


Terrorists linked to al Qaida were blamed for a suicide car bomb attack on a
luxury hotel in the Indonesian capital, which killed at least 13 people and
wounded 150 yesterday.  Shattered glass and pools of blood covered the ground
for two blocks around Jakarta's five star Marriott Hotel, which was popular with
visiting Western businessmen. A Dutch bank president was among the dead. No
group claimed responsibility for the attack, but suspicion immediately fell on
Jemaah Islamiyah, a violent Islamic militant group with links to Osama bin
Laden's al Qaida.

Several of its leaders face execution in Indonesia if convicted of carrying out
last October's devastating Bali nightclub bombings.

"People were screaming, panicking," said Sodik, a witness who was having lunch
next door. "I thought it was an earthquake." The explosion shattered windows as
high up as the 20th floor.

The vice-president of Indonesia, Hamzah Haz, said the bombing may have been
aimed at US interests: "I think it is possible that was what was behind it," he
said.

Black smoke billowed from the front of the 33-storey hotel, which was often used
for functions held by the US embassy.

Indonesian security minister Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said strict security
measures had been put in place at the airport and in other public places.  "We
cannot allow any space for terrorism," he said.

He called the blast a "diabolical and inhumane terrorist attack".

A US spokesman also condemned the attack, but said Washington remained confident
in Indonesia's ability to fight terrorism and protect American interests in the
country.

The explosion came four days after President Megawati Sukarnoputri vowed to
destroy the terror networks responsible for a series of bombings across
Indonesia - the world's biggest Muslim nation.

She later toured the bomb site and a hospital treating the injured.

Since the Bali attacks on October 12 - which killed 202 people, including 26
Britons; among them Cornishman Marc Gajardo, from Carnon Downs, near Truro -
intelligence experts had warned that more terror attacks were likely in
south-east Asia, and in Indonesia particularly.

Jemaah Islamiyah's (JI) alleged leader, Muslim cleric Abu Bakar Bashir, is on
trial for treason over a series of bombings in 2000.

Yesterday's blast rocked the capital just two days before the first verdict is
expected in a series of trials in Bali. Several alleged JI members accused of
masterminding that bombing could be sentenced to death if convicted. One US
official said yesterday's blast "definitely has a trademark of Jemaah Islamiyah
- to cause as many casualties as possible in high-profile attacks." The
Indonesian Red Cross put the death toll at 13, and said 149 were wounded.
Dutchman Hans Winkelmolen, president of PT Rabobank Duta Indonesia, was among
the dead. Local media said eight foreigners were hurt - two Americans, two
Singaporeans, two Chinese, and one each from Australia and New Zealand.

At the scene, police chief General Da'i Bachtiar said his men suspected the
explosives were packed into a mini-van - as in the Bali attacks.

The burned chassis was being examined, he said.

Body parts were found near the wrecked vehicle, and he said police were
investigating whether they were from bystanders or suicide bombers.

The explosion left a crater more than two yards wide in the hotel lobby, and at
least 22 vehicles parked outside were damaged.

The blast was sure to hurt Indonesia's efforts to attract tourists and foreign
investors following the carnage in Bali.

The Indonesian currency, the rupiah, fell 2.1 per cent and the Jakarta stock
exchange closed 3.1 per cent lower following the blast.


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2003 Western Morning News

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            August 7, 2003, Thursday

INDONESIAN POLICE KNEW TERROR ATTACK WAS PLANNED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 189 words


INDONESIAN police seized documents last month showing terrorists were planning
an attack in the area around Jakartas Marriott Hotel, where 10 people died on
Tuesday in a suicide car bombing.

Meanwhile, the alleged mastermind of last years Bali nightclub bombings said he
was happy about the hotel attack, and that he hoped Muslims had carried it out.

Thank God, I am thankful, Imam Samudra shouted in court yesterday at the trial
of another key suspect in the Bali bombings. aaI am happy, especially if the
perpetrators were Muslims.

Indonesian police knew there was a risk of attacks in the area around the hotel,
which is home to several foreign embassies.

There was a warning that there were some targets and we have been anticipating
an attack, said Jakarta police spokesman Prasetyo, who like many Indonesians
uses a single name.

Prasetyo said the documents were seized along with weapons and explosives in
Java last month. Police arrested seven alleged Jemaah Islamiyah members in those
raids.

In the documents there were some strategic areas including the location of the
Marriott, Prasetyo said.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Century Newspapers Limited

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 9, 2003, Saturday

Experts say Colombian terrorists will step up attacks

BYLINE: Christine Seib

SECTION: Business; 42

LENGTH: 310 words


COLOMBIA may be the kidnapp-ing hotspot of South America but its rebel forces do
not only have their eye on human targets, according to a report to be released
this month by Hiscox (Christine Seib writes).

The Lloyd's of London insurer has revealed exclusively to The Times the contents
of a report that it commissioned from the world-renowned experts on Colombian
terrorism. They gave warning that Colombia's two main leftist guerrilla groups -
the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (Farc) and the National Liberation
Army (ELN) -would increase their attacks on government and corporate
infrastructure in the coming year.

The experts added that the rebel groups would "progressively upscale their
campaigns" in 2006, with "more frequent and intense attacks on infrastructure".

Rebel groups will also widen their choice of targets.

Hiscox's experts cautioned that as the strategically vital Cano Limon-Covenas
oil pipeline became more difficult to hit effectively, more vulnerable targets
would be chosen.

They said: "The guerrillas may switch the focus of their attacks back to the
electricity grid (including power stations), the telecommunications network,
bridges and dams."

Rebels will also continue to attack civilian buildings in an attempt to kill
Colombian government and military personnel, the experts said.

It is estimated that Farc has at least 17,000 members and the ELN up to 5,000
fighters.

The groups aim to overthrow Colombia's political and economic elite and replace
it with a socialist system.

Their lucrative sidelines, however, including drugs and arms trafficking and the
use of extortion, kidnapping and ransoms, mean there is also a financial reason
to keep fighting.

Both Farc and the ELN are categorised as terrorist organisations by both the US
Government and the European Union.


LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                August 11, 2003

Police on alert for 'imminent' al-Qa'ida terror attack

LENGTH: 418 words


Police in London have been put on their highest state of alert after warnings
were received that an al-Qa'ida suicide attack may be imminent.

Frontline officers in the capital are being given fresh instruction on spotting
and tackling suicide bombers. Similar guidance is to be issued to officers in
other large urban forces next month.

The moves come after the FBI uncovered and passed on new intelligence that the
threat was growing of an al-Qa'ida outrage in the capital.

Senior officers were briefed on the threat a fortnight ago in a presentation at
Scotland Yard's firearms unit.

They are understood to have been told that al-Qa'ida's presence in Britain was
substantial and capable of staging an attack.

The guidance for officers on the beat will be contained in a counter-terrorist
manual compiled by Chief Inspector Andy Latto, Scotland Yard's senior firearms
instructor.

"Suicide bombers are getting better at killing people," he told The Sunday
Telegraph. "The increase in deaths is far superior to the increase in incidents.

"We are currently briefing chief officers across the country and the information
will cascade down to officers."

A Metropolitan Police spokeswoman refused to be drawn yesterday on details of
security measures. "We have a record that is second to none in the world on
counter- terrorism and we're confident this will continue," she said.

Patrick Mercer, a Conservative home affairs spokesman, accused the Government of
not taking the threat seriously enough. "It is clear attacks are being planned
in this country," he said. "We mustn't let our guard drop.

"Several of my visits over the past few weeks have shown me that little has been
done in the NHS, the fire service, the police and local authorities to prepare
for such attacks."

Undercover police teams tracking suspected Islamic terrorists in London were
armed for the first time earlier this year and instructed to shoot to kill if
they believed a suspect was about to detonate a bomb strapped to his body or in
a vehicle.

The Metropolitan Police has already been placed on maximum alert twice this year
- in January, when the deadly poison ricin was discovered at a flat in Wood
Green, north London, and in February, when troops and tanks were dispatched to
Heathrow airport.

Security has also been stepped up at potential targets such as the Houses of
Parliament, now protected against car bomb attacks by a low concrete wall.

(Source: The Independent)


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 11, 2003

Be prepared for terror attacks, says Bremer

BYLINE: David Teather in New York

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 412 words


US officials say they are braced for further large-scale terrorist attacks in
Iraq, after reports from intelligence sources that hundreds of Islamic militants
who escaped across the border to Iran during the war may have slipped back into
the country.

In an interview in yesterday's New York Times, the top civilian administrator in
Iraq, Paul Bremer, claimed fighters for the militant organisation Ansar al-Islam
were plotting against occupation forces.

"The intelligence suggests that Ansar al-Islam is planning large-scale terrorist
attacks here," he said. "So long as we have, as I think we do, substantial
numbers of Ansar terrorists around here, I think we have to be pretty alert to
the fact that we may see more of this."

Last Thursday, a car bomb tore through the Jordanian embassy in central Baghdad,
killing 17 people and wounding many more.

The attack was the worst yet against the civilian population in Iraq and
presented coalition forces with a new kind of security threat. It is still not
known who was responsible for the bombing.

Ansar al-Islam, which has been linked to the al-Qaida terrorist network, had set
up a camp in northern Iraq, close to the eastern Kur dish territory. The camp
was bombed by US forces during the war, and Kurds, supporting the removal of
Saddam Hussein, also attacked, causing many militants to flee to Iran.

Mr Bremer said they appeared to be flooding back into Iraq. The group's history
pointed to major terrorist acts, including car bombings of the type seen last
week. "The history is they do big stuff. They don't do chicken-feed type stuff."

General Richard Myers, chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, has said that some
suspected members of Ansar al-Islam had been captured and were being
interrogated. While US officials have said it is possible that al-Qaida is
operating inside Iraq, it has no conclusive evidence.

US military officials have so far blamed the almost daily attacks on Saddam
Hussein loyalists, but there are growing concerns about foreign fighters joining
the resistance.

Since May 1, when hostilities were officially declared over, the still simmering
conflict has claimed the lives of 55 American soldiers and six British troops.

Another two US soldiers were yesterday wounded when a grenade was thrown at a
patrol from an upper storey window at Baghdad University, and two were wounded
in a bomb attack on a road near Tikrit, north of the capital.


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 11, 2003, Monday

POLICE ON ALERT FOR IMMINENT' AL-QA'IDA TERROR ATTACK ON BRITAIN

BYLINE: NIGEL MORRIS HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 414 words


THE METROPOLITAN Police is on its highest state of alert after renewed warnings
that an al-Qa'ida suicide attack on London may be imminent.

Front-line officers in the capital are being given fresh instruction on spotting
and tackling suicide bombers. Similar guidance is to be issued to officers in
other large urban forces next month.

The moves come after the FBI uncovered and passed on new intelligence that the
threat was growing of an al-Qa'ida outrage in the capital.

Senior officers were briefed on the higher al-Qa'ida threat a fortnight ago in a
presentation at Scotland Yard's firearms unit. They are understood to have been
told that al-Qa'ida's presence in Britain was substantial and capable of staging
an attack.

The guidance for officers on the beat will be contained in a counter- terrorist
manual compiled by Chief Insp Andy Latto, Scotland Yard's senior firearms
instructor.

"Suicide bombers are getting better at killing people. The increase in deaths is
far superior to the increase in incidents.

"We are currently briefing chief officers across the country and the information
will cascade down to officers," he told The Sunday Telegraph.

A Metropolitan Police spokeswoman refused to be drawn yesterday on details of
security measures. "We have a record that is second to none in the world on
counter-terrorism and we're confident this will continue," she said.

But Patrick Mercer, a Tory Home Affairs spokesman, accused the Government of not
taking the threat seriously enough. "It is clear attacks are being planned in
this country," he said. "We mustn't let our guard drop.

"Several of my visits over the past few weeks have shown me that little has been
done in the NHS, the fire service, the police and local authorities to prepare
for such attacks."

Undercover police teams tracking suspected Islamic terrorists in London were
armed for the first time earlier this year and instructed to shoot to kill if
they believed a suspect was about to detonate a bomb strapped to his body or in
a vehicle.

The Met has already been placed on maximum alert twice this year - in January,
when the deadly poison ricin was discovered at a flat in Wood Green, north
London, and in February, when troops and tanks were dispatched to Heathrow
airport.

Security has also been discreetly stepped up since Easter at potential targets
such as the Houses of Parliament, now protected against car bomb attacks by a
low concrete wall.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                August 12, 2003

Bus driver in beer bottle attack terror

BYLINE: By Deborah Anderson

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 341 words


A BUS driver is recovering in hospital today after being attacked by thugs who
hurled a beer bottle at him.

He was driving a number 89 bus in Glasgow's Springburn when the terrifying
incident happened shortly before midnight.

He suffered head injuries when the bottle was thrown through the window of his
cab.

Now his employer - First Bus - has launched an appeal in a bid to find his
attackers and will offer a reward for information.

A spokesman for the company said their driver was at Springburn Shopping Centre
at 11.40pm when the bottle was thrown through the bus window.

As the driver approached the bus stop on Springburn Way, he noticed about four
youths standing on the opposite side of the road.

Just as he was pulling away from the bus stop, one of the youths threw the
bottle at the bus, hitting the driver on the side of the head .

The spokesman added: "Emergency services were called to the scene and our driver
was taken to hospital suffering from swelling and cuts to his head.

"He was still being treated in the early hours of this morning and we are still
waiting for an update on his condition."

A police investigation has been launched and the company is doing all it can to
help.

Both the police and First Bus are appealing to anyone who was on the bus at the
time to get in touch.

This is the latest in a spate of attacks on bus drivers.

Just weeks ago a bus driver was shot in the back of the head while on duty.

He may now have an airgun pellet lodged in his skull for the rest of his life.

The 32-year-old was driving a number 23 bus in Erskine, Renfrewshire, when he
was shot through an open window as he dropped off passengers.

Earlier this year a bus driver was left in fear after a passenger stabbed him
with a hypodermic syringe.

The 48-year-old man faced an anxious wait to see if he was at risk from HIV or
hepatitis. The attack happened when the driver of the First Bus number 61 was on
his route in Summerston.

deborah.anderson@

eveningtimes .co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 12, 2003, Tuesday

DATE SET FOR TERROR ATTACK' ON UNDERGROUND

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 56 words


AN EXERCISE simulating a terrorist strike on the London Underground will take
place next month, the Department of Transport said yesterday. The drill will
test the emergency services' reaction to a chemical or biological attack, with
mass evacuations and decontaminations. It will be staged at Bank station on
Sunday 7 September.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 12, 2003, Tuesday

Tube station to test 'terror attack'

BYLINE: Stewart Tendler

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 96 words


A huge exercise to test London's reaction to a terrorist attack using chemical
or biological weapons will be held at one of London Underground's biggest
stations next month (Stewart Tendler writes).

It will be staged at Bank in the City of London on Sunday, September 7. The
station will be closed for the exercise.

The Department for Transport said yesterday that the exercise was one of a
number designed to test emergency procedures and equipment in London and across
the country.

Several hundred police, fire and ambulance staff will be involved.


LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      August 14, 2003, Thursday Edition 1

Court told of terror sex attack

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 335 words


   A man launched a terrifying sex attack on a stranger as she made her way home
alone at night from a pub, a court was told yesterday.

John Charlton stalked the woman before felling her with a blow to the back of
the neck.

He clasped his hand over her mouth to stifle her screams and removed her
clothing, Newcastle Crown Court was told.

The attack only ended when two people living nearby went to her rescue and held
Charlton until police arrived, said Robert Woodcock, prosecuting.

Charlton, 36, of Aiden Avenue, Seaton Sluice, Northumberland, denies attempting
to rape the woman, who is in her 40s and cannot be identified for legal reasons.
The jury heard he admits indecent assault. The court was told Charlton was
wearing surgical gloves when he attacked the woman in Blyth last April.

"His actions had the hallmarks of a predator," Mr Woodcock said.

"The defendant did not know this woman and may never have seen her before.

"She heard footsteps behind her and then someone cough. A couple of seconds
later she felt something hit her on her neck.

"She fell forward, putting her hands out to prevent herself falling, and the
next thing she can remember is waking up in an ambulance but in fact she had
screamed and struggled.

"There were eyewitnesses who saw her underneath the defendant as he lay astride
her. Her skirt had been removed , her knickers were half way down her legs and
she was clearly overpowered."

Witness Graham Richardson said he left his home to investigate the scream and
saw a man on top of a partially dressed woman.

Mr Richardson said he told his wife to call the police, chased the man, pushed
him over and held on to him with the aid of his next-door-neighbour George
Scott.

In a statement read to the court, the woman described the effects of her ordeal:
"I feel dirty and it is worse because I don't know what was done to me.

"I don't want to go home and I don't want to be alone. I keep crying and I am
very edgy."

The trial continues today.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                August 14, 2003

Ba Scraps Flights To Saudi As Terror Attack Fears Grow

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 4 1408WESTDP417bascr

LENGTH: 414 words


British Airways yesterday suspended flights to Saudi Arabia because of the
"serious threat" to UK interests in the area with fears of terrorist attacks
increasing.  The airline has temporarily scrapped its four services a week to
Jeddah and Riyadh after holding talks with the Department for Transport.

A department spokesman said: "There is credible intelligence of a serious threat
to UK aviation interests in Saudi Arabia." BA said there were "heightened
security concerns in the region".

The airline's safety and security director Geoff Want added: "As a matter of
precaution we have decided to suspend all flights to Saudi Arabia for now being
and we will continue to liaise closely with the British Government." About 180
passengers had been due to fly to Riyadh at 1.50pm today only to learn that the
flight had been cancelled, as was the 7.50pm flight from Heathrow to Jeddah.

A BA spokeswoman said: "We are trying to re-route passengers by getting them as
far as we can on their journeys to Saudi Arabia. People are also being offered
refunds." On May 12 this year, two Britons were among more than 30 people killed
in bomb attacks in Riyadh. Another 100 were injured.

The suspension of flights today follows the disruption of BA services to Kenya
earlier this year - also because of terrorism fears.

There are about 30,000 Britons in Saudi Arabia at any one time - most of them
residents who are working there.

The Foreign Office said yesterday: "We shall be drawing the British Airways
announcement to the attention of the British community in Saudi Arabia through
the warden network we have out there." The Foreign Office added that it did not
intend to change its advice on travelling.

It currently reads: "We advise British nationals against all but essential
travel to Saudi Arabia. If you choose to travel to, or remain in, Saudi Arabia
you should take all necessary steps to protect your safety and should make sure
you have confidence in your security arrangements.

"Further attacks against Western interests in Saudi Arabia remain likely.

"You should maintain a high level of vigilance, adopt a low profile and remember
Islamic law is strictly enforced in Saudi Arabia." A spokesman for the British
Embassy in Saudi Arabia said: "As we understand it, the threat at the moment is
aviation specific." The Foreign Office has said that terrorist attacks in the
region could involve the use of chemical and biological materials.


LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            August 15, 2003, Friday

BLACKOUT PANIC HITS NEW YORK;
 MILLIONS CAUGHT UP IN FEAR OF TERROR ATTACK; PANIC AS BLACKOUT

BYLINE: ALAN HARRIS GRIDLOCK: Frightened workers on Brooklyn Bridge, New York.
Thousands fled the city, fearing there was a terrorist attack; LIGHTS OUT: The
dark skyline of Cleveland in the blackout (above), people with nowhere to go
sleep on the pavement in New York's Times Square (below), and (left) a map
showing the area affected

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 528 words


MILLIONS of people took to the streets in panic as a huge power cut sparked
fears of a terrorist attack in America.

Swarms of office workers poured out of high-rise buildings last night while
terrified commuters trapped on the underground network desperately clawed open
the doors to escape the rising heat as growing panic gripped New York and other
major cities.

The massive blackout brought large parts of north-eastern America and Canada to
a virtual standstill.

Work went on all night to get the power back on and engineers were hopeful of
full restoration by this afternoon. There was still confusion as to what caused
the huge blackout and Canada and the US were blaming each other.

Thousands of British holidaymakers were caught up in the chaos. Up to 1,700
Britons were stranded at New York's JFK airport last night after British Airways
cancelled five of its flights to Britain because of the power cut.

And a planeload of passengers on a Virgin Atlantic jet bound for New York was
forced to turn back.

There were no problems reported at Birmingham Airport today where overnight
flights from the states landed almost on time and departures to Canada were on
schedule.

Amid scenes reminiscent of the September 11 2001 terrorist atrocity President
George Bush ruled out terrorism and promised a full investigation.

Investigators concentrated on transmission lines and transformers in upstate New
York and neighbouring Canada in search of what might have caused the surge in
power that triggered safety mechanisms and wiped out the flow of power from New
England to Michigan yesterday.

Power was returning slowly in the affected areas today, but industry officials
said that more than 20 power plants - including nine nuclear reactors - were
forced to shut down and that it could take from a few hours for gas-fired
plants, to more than 12 hours for the nuclear plants, to get them back into
operation.

Mayor of New York, Michael Bloomberg, stressed there was no evidence of
terrorism, although New Yorkers likened the chaotic scenes on the streets to
those of 9/11.

Office worker Tiffany Walters, 26, who works in a Manhattan law firm, said panic
set in when everything ground to a halt.

"Everybody freaked out at the beginning," she said. "People were saying they
could smell burning and we all were wondering if it was terrorism.

"It feels and looks so like 9/11. Everybody's wandering around the streets with
fear on their faces and trying to find out what's going on."

During the crisis traffic lights went out across major cities, creating havoc at
the beginning of rush hour.

There were reports of power cuts in Detroit, northern New Jersey and in several
Vermont towns.

The blackouts engulfed most of New York state and parts of New England, and
spread west to Ohio and Michigan.

In Toronto, Canada's largest city, workers fled buildings when the power went
off. There were also cuts in the capital Ottawa.

New Yorkers scrambled down endless stairways in skyscrapers where lifts stopped
working, and some commuters were stuck on trains underground for several hours
before being evacuated.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            August 15, 2003, Friday

BLACKOUT PANIC HITS NEW YORK;
 HAVOC WREAKED BY THE BIGGEST POWER CUT IN HISTORY GRIDLOCK: Frightened workers
on Brooklyn Bridge, New York. Thousands fled the city, fearing a terrorist
attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 769 words


THE biggest power cut in American history rolled across a vast swath of the
northern United States and southern Canada yesterday, driving millions of people
outdoors into stifling rush hour streets.

As nuclear power plants were shut down in four states, President Bush ruled out
terrorism. But the blackout set off finger pointing on both sides of the border.

The New York Independent System Operator, which monitors electricity usage, said
it detected a fault west of the Ontario power system at 4:11pm local time (21:11
BST). It did not give details.

At one point, Canadian authorities said it appeared lightning had struck a power
plant on the US side in the Niagara Falls region, triggering power cuts that
spread over 9,300 square miles. But US officials quickly disputed that.

The blackouts engulfed most of New York state and parts of New England, and
spread west to Ohio and Michigan.

In Toronto, Canada's largest city, workers fled buildings when the power went
off. There were also cuts in the capital Ottawa.

Power began to come back as evening wore on, but officials said full restoration
would take much longer. Officials in Detroit urged people to stay at home during
the night, and some communities declared curfews.

By midnight, New York authorities had electricity back on in parts of the Bronx,
Westchester County and Long Island. About half of the one million homes and
businesses that lost power in New Jersey had it back.

About 50 million people were affected.

New Yorkers scrambled down endless stairways in skyscrapers where lifts stopped
working, and some underground commuters were stuck on trains for several hours
before being evacuated.

In the city that took the brunt of the September 11, 2001, terror attacks,
people filed into the streets with little fuss and looked for ways to get home.

"I am trying to keep calm," said Aaron David, 27, who works at the United
Nations. "But I was here for 9-11. This doesn't happen every day."

Both New York and New Jersey declared states of emergency.

As darkness fell, city dwellers turned to candles and flashlights as scattered
parts of the electrical grid came back on. People gobbled ice cream from street
vendors before it melted, and knocked back beers before they got warm. Others
gathered around battery-operated radios for updates.

Traffic lights were out in many major cities, creating havoc at the beginning of
rush hour.

People lined up 10 deep or more at pay phones, with mobile phone service
disrupted in some areas. New York's Times Square and Broadway - normally bright
with neon - went dark.

New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg asked the city's more than eight million
people to be calm, go home, open windows and drink water.

"Be sure you don't make an inconvenience into a tragedy," he said.

Flights at six airports - Kennedy, LaGuardia, Newark, Cleveland, Toronto and
Ottawa - were grounded.

A spokesman for Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien said: "We have been
informed that lightning struck a power plant in the Niagara region on the US
side."

But Brian Warner of the New York Power Authority said its Niagara facilities
were not hit by lightning and "at no time during this incident ceased to
operate."

In San Diego, Bush said "slowly but surely, we are coping with this massive,
national problem."

The blackouts easily surpassed those in the western US on August 10, 1996, in
terms of people affected. Then, heat, sagging power lines and unusually high
demand for electricity caused cuts for four million customers in nine states.

A blackout in New York City in 1977 left nine million people without electricity
for up to 25 hours.

Britons caught up in mayhem

THOUSANDS of British travellers were caught up in the chaos.

Up to 1,700 Britons were stranded at New York's JFK airport last night after
British Airways cancelled five flights returning to Britain because of the power
cut.

Two flights from Toronto to Britain were also axed, and a plane-load of
passengers aboard a Virgin Atlantic jet bound for New York was forced to turn
back to Heathrow Airport.

Virgin Atlantic flight VS17 was nearly three hours into its journey to New York
when the pilot announced the Airbus A340 had to return to Britain.

It eventually arrived back at 2am and the weary travellers were immediately
shepherded on to shuttle buses and taken to a nearby hotel for the night.

A spokesman for Virgin said it was

planning to fly most of them out to New York at 4.30pm today.

A second Virgin flight was diverted to Washington.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            August 15, 2003, Friday

HIJACK TERROR;
 BUS CRASHES AFTER GANG ATTACK DRIVER

BYLINE: Donna Watson Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 332 words


A GANG battle ended in terror for bus passengers as the double-decker crashed
head-on into a wall.

The mayhem happened after two groups of yobs, one on board the bus and the other
on the street, spotted each other.

The driver tried to speed away as a bottle was thrown at the bus by one gang.
The thugs on board then tried to stop the vehicle in a bid to get at their
rivals.

The passengers watched in horror as the yobs sprayed the driver with a fire
extinguisher and tried to grab the wheel.

Then those on board were thrown from their seats as the bus slammed into a wall.

Last night, a First Bus insider said the incident in East Kilbride, Lanarkshire,
was the latest in a spate of yob attacks on vehicles.

He said: "This was a particularly bad attack and the bus is wrecked but we are
getting these everywhere."

First Bus managing director Eric Stewart explained: "The bus was hit by a bottle
thrown by a group of youths standing at the shops in the town's Greenhills area.

"Another gang of about nine or 10 youths who were on board the bus at the time
tried to open the entrance doors when the bus was moving.

"When the doors wouldn't open, one youth set off the fire extinguisher and
started firing it in the direction of the driver while the others forced the cab
door open.

"A few of the youths then grabbed the steering wheel, causing the driver to lose
control and the bus mounted a grass verge and hit a wall on the opposite side of
the road."

Mr Stewart said the youths ran away after the crash.

He added: "There were a number of passengers on board the bus at the time
although, fortunately, nobody required hospital treatment."

He said no one had yet been arrested in connection with the gang attack.

A police spokeswoman confirmed officers were still making inquiries into the
incident.

Earlier this year, a First Bus driver needed hospital treatment after two
passengers attacked him at the wheel in Summerston, Glasgow.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2003 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                August 15, 2003

Gang fight terror as bus driver attacked

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 152 words


BUS passengers were left terrified after being caught in the middle of a gang
battle during a journey.

Their bus crashed into a wall after trouble flared when two groups of youths
spotted each other in Greenhills, East Kilbride.

One gang was on the bus and the other was in the street.

The driver tried to speed away as a bottle was thrown at the bus but the thugs
on board then tried to stop the vehicle to get at their rivals.

Passengers looked on helplessly as the youths sprayed the driver with a fire
extinguisher and tried to grab the wheel.

Some were thrown from their seats when the bus hit the wall. No one was injured.

First Bus managing director Eric Stewart said: "The bus was hit by a bottle
thrown by a group of youths standing at the shops.

"Another gang of about nine or 10 youths who were on board the bus at the time
tried to open the doors when the bus was moving."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 15, 2003, Friday

Fear of terror attack fills New York streets again

BYLINE: James Bone and Nicholas Wapshott

SECTION: Overseas news; 3

LENGTH: 939 words


Collapse of power grid halted traffic and subways in a reminder of the al-Qaeda
attacks, write James Bone and Nicholas Wapshott

NEW YORKERS streamed out of their skyscraper offices and up from the subway into
the packed city streets yesterday, fearing a repeat of the September 11
terrorist attacks.

"It looks like September 11 to me," said Christian Teodorescu, who works in a
bank in midtown Manhattan, minutes after the power failed across the
northeastern United States and Canada. "It's probably the price of living in New
York City."

"It seems fishy," said Cleon Osborne, a United Parcel Service worker making a
delivery on First Avenue. "I thought the stop light was broken. Then they told
me the building was closed."

Bryan Lee, a spokesman for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, blamed the
failure of a Manhattan power plant for the massive blackout. Dense smoke could
be seen coming from a plant on the East River at 14th Street.

The blackout halted subway trains and forced thousands of people to feel their
way to daylight and safety along the grimy tunnels. "People were cracking
terrorism jokes," said Steve Santiago, a photo laboratory technician who walked
down a tunnel. "We were, like, 'Osama bin Laden came back from the grave'."

At Grand Central Station, women were in tears and men were gasping for breath as
they emerged, bewildered, into the crowded streets.

"The train just stopped," said Matthew Walker, who had just reached the street
covered in grime. "It was completely silent. We got the message that someone
pulled the emergency brake. Then

we got a message saying the emergency brake had engaged by itself. Then we got a
message saying all the electricity on the Lexington Avenue line had gone out.

"People were bonding and sharing with each other, water and stuff. Then we got a
message to evacuate the train. We walked along this pathway and just followed
each other. It was completely dark. I had my lighter lit for a while. We just
talked to each other and helped each other. Eventually we came to flashlights
flickering."

With subway services halted and roads jammed because of failed traffic lights,
thousands of office workers walked home across the Brooklyn Bridge just as they
did after the World Trade Centre attacks. When the central walkway filled up,
people skipped between the slow-moving traffic on the roads.

Commuters also crowded to ferry stops to ride across to New Jersey - another
echo of September 11. The city's three major airports halted all flights. City
authorities immediately began to implement their emergency blackout plan,
posting police officers at major junctions and checking hospitals and other
"critical" locations to make sure that they had enough fuel for their emergency
generators.

Outside the Pfizer headquarters on 42nd Street, an in-house security chief used
a megaphone to address confused staff on the pavement. "It appears what we are
suffering from is a grid failure in western New York State," he told them.

New Yorkers took the initiative, stepping into the breach to direct traffic and
help the elderly and infirm down stairs to ground level. Limousine drivers
parked their cars and turned up the radios so that the crowds who gathered
around could hear what was happening.

In the World Trade Centre dental surgery on Broadway, Lower Manhattan, the
sudden cut in the power supply evoked memories of September 11 when so many of
the surgical staff escaped from the twin towers.

"I'm sure there's no need to worry," said one dentist who had just finished
drilling a patient's tooth when the lights went out. "It is understandable if
people round here are nervous."

At 52 Broadway, as in towers throughout the city, people trapped in a lift were
crying out for help. "Hold on. Help is on the way," a man on the landing of the
fifth floor shouted at the closed doors. A muffled voice from inside the lift
said: "Thanks, but make it quick, could you?"

Opposite the bronze statue of a bull by Bowling Green

in the financial district, a crowd clammered around a radio that was kept going
on batteries.

"More news in, the city of Hertford, Connecticut, is also down ..."

Apart from that lone radio, there was nothing but speculation. "They say it's
all five boroughs," one woman said to another.

"No, it's the whole of the North East," said a man squeezing past her on the
pavement, ten deep in commuters speculating how they would make it home.

"At least I can get home by the ferry," a woman from Brooklyn said. Others
worried how, and how long, it would take to get home.

The mobile telephone system quickly overloaded and people lined up at street
corner telephone booths to speak to their friends and relatives.City Hall was
placed under "lockdown" as Michael Bloomberg, the Mayor, discussed the power
cuts with the police and fire commissioners, anxious to prevent disorder when
darkness fell.

The Mayor issued a statement reassuring people that there appeared to be no
connection to terrorism.

Medhat Ibrahim, 40, sitting in his car outside Hacienda de Argentina, his
restaurant on 75th Street, soon had a crowd round him listening to the radio.

"Everyone wants to know what's going on,

who has power," he said.

"Terrorism, that's everyone's first reaction."

Gabriela Mira, 40, waited in a queue to use a pay phone, rocking her six
month-old daughter in a pushchair. "I had to get out of the house," she said.
"It was so dark, and everything was off, and I was scared. No air conditioner.
The phones, they need electricity. And it's so, so hot."


LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           August 16, 2003, Saturday

TERROR ACCUSED IN BUSH ATTACK PLAN

BYLINE: ED JAMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 379 words


THE man accused of being al-Qaida's operations chief in south-east Asia was
planning an attack on a summit attended by US President Bush when he was
arrested, officials said yesterday.

Hambali, who is accused of masterminding the Bali bombings and of being linked
to the 9/11 attacks in the USA, was being interrogated at a secret location by
American investigators.

Washington revealed he was arrested in Thailand's ancient temple city of
Ayutthaya on Monday.

It brought to an end one of Asia's biggest manhunts and will be seen as a major
victory for the US-led war on terrorism.

But many fear it might also trigger a wave of revenge attacks by his Jemaah
Islamiyah group,accused in the Bali blasts, the August 5 Marriott Hotel bombing
in Jakarta,and a spate of deadly explosions and terror plots elsewhere.

A jubilant Bush described Hambali as "a known killer who was a close associate
of September 11 mastermind Khalid Shaikh Mohammed."

Officials in Thailand said yesterday he had been flown to Indonesia under US
custody. But that was denied by Indonesian police.

Hambali was allegedly preparing an attack in Bangkok during the Asia Pacific
Economic Co-operation leaders' summit in October, Thailand's Nation newspaper
reported. A cache of explosives was also discovered,it said.

Deputy Prime Minister Chavalit Yongchaiyudh said: "There is ground to believe
that the report is true."

Hambali is number two in Jemaah Islamiyah (JI), which has links with alQaida.
The JI chief, Indonesian Muslim cleric Abu Bakar Bashir,is on trial for treason
and the fatal Christmas Eve 2000 church bombings there.

The Nation said Hambali was arrested after travelling to the northern province
of Chiang Rai to hide among the Muslim community in Ayutthaya.

The alleged terror chief had been born into a poor family in Indonesia's West
Java province before becoming involved in the JI network as a teenager.

The governments of Australia and terrorism experts hailed his arrest.

"This man is a very big fish,"Australian Prime Minister John Howard said.

"Psychologically, this capture will inflict a very heavy blow on the worldwide
terrorist network."

Hambali is also wanted by Indonesia, Malaysia,Singapore and the Philippines.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Protesters Jo Sayers and Claire Wallerstein pose in front of Trafalgar
Square yesterday

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                August 16, 2003

Omagh Mourns But New Terrorist Attacks Planned

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 17 1608WESTDP364omagh

LENGTH: 627 words


Dissident republicans have formed new terror cells across Britain in further
bids to wreck the Northern Ireland peace process, it was claimed yesterday.  As
Omagh prepared to mark the fifth anniversary of the bomb which killed 29 people,
hardliners opposed to the Good Friday Agreement pledged there would be no let-up
in their campaign.

One warned: "Irish people who agree with us are everywhere." Even though the
Real IRA took the blame for Omagh, it emerged yesterday that another dissident
group, the Continuity IRA, was heavily involved in the August 1998 plot.

Security sources in Belfast yesterday confirmed undercover operations all over
Northern Ireland had been intensified in a bid to thwart threatened strikes by
the terrorists.

Police and the Army have already foiled several bomb attacks and captured
several suspected terrorists.

Detectives in the Irish Republic and at Scotland Yard were last night
questioning four men about alleged weapon shipments and an arms find linked to
the Continuity IRA.

The successes heightened suspicions that both renegade republican outfits, which
oppose Sinn Fein's peace strategy, have been heavily infiltrated by informers
and agents.

Networks of agents have been increasingly used to prevent terrorist attacks
since the Omagh bomb.

It was exactly five years ago that a massive car bomb rocked the centre of
Omagh, killing 29 people and maiming more than 200 others.

The attack, carried out by the Real IRA, was the worst single terrorist atrocity
in Northern Ireland.

The bomb went off on a busy Saturday afternoon as police cleared an area near
the town's courthouse, 40 minutes after receiving a warning.

Crowds moved down Market Street unaware that they were walking towards a car
containing 500lb of Semtex and home-made explosive.

The victims included Protestants and Catholics from the town, visitors from the
Irish Republic and a teacher and child from Spain who were on an exchange trip
to Donegal. The list also included toddlers aged 18 and 20 months and a woman
who had been pregnant with twins.

Days after the attack, the Real IRA released a statement admitting
responsibility and apologising.

After the weight of public condemnation, the terror group was forced into
calling a ceasefire as police on both sides of the border launched the largest
ever murder investigation in a bid to catch those responsible.

After a 25-day court case, dissident republican Colm Murphy was found guilty of
plotting to carry out the Omagh bombing. No one has yet been charged with the
attack itself.

The 49-year-old father of four from Dundalk in Co Louth was jailed for 14 years
for conspiring to cause an explosion. During the trial, the court heard he lent
two mobile phones to an associate of a suspected high-ranking figure in the Real
IRA who was planning the attack.

Meanwhile, relatives of Omagh victims launched a civil action against five men
they suspect of being behind the bombing.

The Government later announced it was to provide the £800,000 required to fund
the civil action against the five suspects. Omagh relatives welcomed the
announcement but maintained their demands for a public inquiry.

Since the Omagh bomb security services have upped their knowledge of splinter
groups such as the Real IRA and CIRA.

But sources close to the CIRA's leadership insisted it still had undetected
members in Ireland and England ready and willing to launch attacks.

"We are growing quietly and looking ahead to what we have to do," one member
said. "Young people don't want politics and they are prepared to do what has to
be done.

"There are no changes in procedure. Sometimes the opposition will be successful.
Sometimes they will not."

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                August 17, 2003

Oxford's foreign students in terror of knife attacks

BYLINE: ALISON GEORGE

SECTION: FB; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 645 words


POLICE have warned foreign students at Oxford's language schools not to display
any signs that they come from abroad following a series of horrific attacks.

Last week a 15-year-old French girl wearing a knapsack bearing the logo of one
of the city's language schools was attacked by two youths who held a butcher's
knife to her throat.

During the assault, on the crimeridden Blackbird Leys estate, the girl's hair
and hand were cut as she tried to escape.

It follows a horrific episode in which a group of Italian and Spanish students
were surrounded by 20 local youths who beat them with baseball bats and demanded
their mobile phones.

The latest incidents come just a year after a 15-year-old Danish girl, Camilla
Petersen, was murdered while taking a language course with the Student Travel
Schools High School Foundation (STS).

Police found her naked body hidden in woodland. She had been sexually assaulted,
then strangled.

STS, which is not regulated by any official body and which advertises widely
across Europe on the Internet, lodges many of its young people in notorious
areas of Oxford such as Blackbird Leys, where they are mugged for their
backpacks, mobiles and money.

Detective Inspector Vince Gilio, the officer in charge of robbery detection in
the city, said: 'It's a seasonal problem. We get hordes of foreign students who
are accommodated on the periphery of the city in rough estates.

Local youths wait there for them to come home, often alone, at one or two
o'clock in the morning after a night out.

'They are a soft touch. They get robbed and, as this incident shows, are
sometimes seriously assaulted.' The students most at risk are those on English
courses run by unlicensed 'cowboy' language schools, who insist they wear
waterproof jackets bearing the establishment's logo and carry matching
fluorescent knapsacks.

Det Insp Gilio said: 'It's as good as putting arrows on the students saying,
"Please rob me." We have also issued the official schools with guidelines to
protect the children from crime. But the unaffiliated schools are a problem.

They ignore us and use their logo-covered jackets and knapsacks for
advertising.' Last summer, Kimberley Stewart-Mole went undercover for The Mail
on Sunday to investigate the shoddy practices of STS and found that students
with the Swedish organisation some as young as 11 were taught by unqualified
teachers, forced to sleep in cramped and substandard lodgings and had been
victims of muggings, violent assaults and even sex attacks.

This year we found these vulnerable teenagers were still exposed to unacceptable
behaviour.

Last week I posed as a language teacher looking for a job tutoring students and
was interviewed by course organiser Andrew Clifford.

Asked about the accommodation they use and whether students' English vocabulary
was helped by staying with local families, he said: 'Well, they learn words like
hash and pot. A few come up with phrases such as, "We smoke pot in the living
room." It's fair to say we are still experiencing problems with accommodation.'
Police are concerned that as well as students being exposed to drugs and other
criminal behaviour, STS and similar unregulated schools are lodging youngsters
with families whose records and background have not been thoroughly checked.

Det Insp Gilio confirmed: 'The students are sometimes placed with clearly
unsuitable families.

'I know of language students who ended up suffering at the hands of their host
families. Others are lodged with known offenders. The screening process is
clearly an issue.' Graham Simpson, a principal of one of the registered language
schools, the Oxford English Centre, said: 'Students would be much safer if they
attended accredited schools.

The rest are tarnishing these young people's image of Great Britain.'

END

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DANGER: WRITER KIMBERLEY STEWART-MOLE HIGHLIGHTED THE DANGERS FACING
FOREIGN STUDENTS IN OXFORD

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The NorthEast

                                August 19, 2003

Terror attacks girl sent to centre she 'enjoyed'

LENGTH: 316 words

DATELINE: The North East


A teenage girl who terrorised elderly women in a string of attacks was yesterday
sent to a young offenders' centre - where she has been enjoying swimming and
trampolining.

A court heard that she had enjoyed her time on remand at Aycliffe Children's
Centre County Durham so much that she wanted to be sent back there to serve her
sentence.

Her defence barrister said her spell in the centre had been the first time she
had been truly happy in the past two years.

The judge told her that he had never come across such serious offences in
someone so young but agreed that she should be returned there to serve her
four-year sentence.

The girl from South Tyneside targeted 90-year-old Amy Hall in South Shields
shopping centre. She offered to push wheelchair-bound Mrs Hall around a store
while her husband Fred paid for his shopping.

But instead of waiting outside the girl wheeled terrified Mrs Hall to a housing
estate.

She emptied a garden shed and pushed Mrs Hall inside after slapping her three
times and robbing her of her possessions.

The girl who was arrested later was already on bail for a series of distraction
burglaries on the elderly. These included five break-ins in Manchester and three
at a shel- tered accommodation block in Hebburn South Tyneside.

The victims were aged between 73 and 90 and in one case a 90-year-old woman who
is registered blind suffered an angina attack as the teenager pushed her way
into her home.

At Newcastle Crown Court yesterday Judge David Hodson said: "I don't think I
have ever come across a person so young having committed offences so serious."

Ailsa MacDonald defending said she was immature and from a troubled family but
was now making good progress at the centre.

Mark Guliani prosecuting said the girl admitted seven burglaries two attempted
burglaries an offence of robbery and false imprisonment.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                August 20, 2003

Sex attacker locked up after terror assaults

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 274 words


A teenage sex

offender convicted of five assaults on women has been locked up for two years
and eight months.

Kevin Robertson's

victims ranged in age from their teens to their early 50s with the attacks
happening between October 28 last year and March 18.

Robertson, 17, of Main Street, Bellshill, was accused of four assaults with
intent to rape and one indecent assault.

But after a four day trial the jury deleted the intent to rape allegation from
three charges.

Robertson was found guilty of offences

spanning six months.

On October 28 last year he entered a careers office near Bellshill Academy,
switched off the lights and assaulted an employee.

On November 24 2002 he attacked a teenage girl in a grassy area at Asquith
Place, Bellshill, with intent to rape her.

Robertson went on to indecently assault a woman in her 50s in her Bellshill home
on January 6 of this year.

And on January 16 he broke into another

victim's house and assaulted her.

Finally, he entered a woman's home without permission on March 18 and attacked
her.

At the High Court in Glasgow temporary Judge Ian Peebles QC placed Robertson on
the sex offenders register.

He told him that due to the gravity of his offences a non custodial sentence
would not be appropriate and sentenced him to two years and eight months.

Defence council Mr Drew McKenzie claimed Robertson received serious head
injuries in May 2001 and had become increasingly isolated and found it difficult
to maintain relationships.

A doctor who examined Robertson said there may be a link between the injury and
his offending behaviour.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           August 21, 2003, Thursday

PARENT ALERT AFTER GIRL ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 177 words


A MOTHER watched in horror as her terrified six-yearold daughter struggled to
escape from a man who had asked her to go with him to a Staffordshire park.

The girl's screams alerted her mother and grandmother who saw the man hanging on
to her by her T-shirt.

The incident at Rugeley today triggered a warning to parents to keep a close
watch on their children at all times. Police said they did not know what the
man's motives had been when he approached the child near shops in Fernwood
Drive.

The incident was at 5pm on Monday but details were only released today because
police had to wait to talk to the shocked girl.

The child was playing when she was approached by the man who was pushing a girl
aged about three in a buggy. 'The man told the child he would take her to a
park. It is believed the man took the girl through an estate. She was then seen
by her relatives crying and screaming and trying to pull away from the man,' a
spokesperson said.

The man had brown hair streaked with grey and a moustache and wore a white
T-shirt.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            August 22, 2003, Friday

SOLDIER KILLED IN TERROR ATTACK ARRIVES HOME

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 127 words


THE body of a Welsh soldier killed in Iraq arrived back in Britain yesterday.

Captain David Jones, 29, was killed in a bomb attack on a military ambulance in
Basra on August 14.

His body,along with that of Private Jason Smith, 32, arrived at RAF Brize Norton
in Oxfordshire shortly before noon in a transporter plane.

The Normandy Band of the King's Division played as the coffins were ceremonially
removed from the plane.

Captain Jones, from Louth in Lincolnshire, whose parents live in Wales, was
serving with 1st Battalion, The Queen's Lancashire Regiment.

The Government was not represented at the ceremony. It is the first time no
minister has been present when military casualties from the Iraq conflict have
been repatriated.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The body of Captain David Jones,killed in a bomb attack on a military
ambulance in Basra,arrives back at RAF Brize Norton

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 22, 2003

ISRAEL'S DEADLY ATTACK ON HAMAS TERRORIST

BYLINE: From Adam Blenford in Jerusalem

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 141 words


ANGER gripped the Middle East last night after Israel killed a Hamas terrorist
and militants called off a two-month ceasefire.

Ismail Abu Shanab was gunned down by Apache helicopter gunships in a dramatic
Israeli response to Tuesday's deadly Jerusalem suicide bombing, in which 20
people died.

Two bodyguards were also killed.

Shanab's car was hit by at least three missiles. He was one of five senior
figures at the heart of Hamas, which has been responsible for scores of suicide
bombings over almost three years.

Israeli security sources said he was planning a string of terror strikes against
Israelis over the coming weeks.

US Secretary of State Colin Powell urged both sides not to abandon the US-backed
"road map" peace process. "The end of the road map is a cliff which both sides
will fall off, " Mr Powell said.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                August 22, 2003

ATTACK ENDS TERROR TRUCE

LENGTH: 77 words


    ISRAEL was on the brink of a new bloodbath last night after Islamic
militants called off their truce following an attack on a terror chief.

    Hamas official Ismail Abu Shanab and two guards were killed when an Israeli
helicopter fired five missiles at his car in Gaza City. Fifteen bystanders were
hurt.

    The Hamas military wing Izzedine al-Qassam retaliated by firing four rockets
at Gaza Strip towns. No one was hurt.

    The Sun Says -Page Eight


LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 22, 2003, Friday

Britain's defence 'vulnerable to nuclear attack by terrorists'

BYLINE: Rodney Cowton, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Features; 36

LENGTH: 676 words


Almost 20 years ago there were fears of terrorists obtaining military hardware
to make unconventional attacks upon Western targets. Concern has escalated since
the fall of the Soviet Union, as has been demonstrated by the appearance in an
American court of a British arms dealer charged with aiding terrorism and
illegally importing a Russian surface-to-air missile

Britain's defence 'vulnerable to nuclear attack by terrorists'

A warning that Britain's defences are inadequate against unconventional forms of
nuclear attack, possibly by terrorists, is given today by the Editor of Jane's
Fighting Ships.

In his foreword to the 1985-86 edition, Captain John Moore says that, because of
their size and range, nuclear ballistic missiles are rightly considered to
present the greatest danger.

"But there are numerous other devices which present a grave threat to mankind.

Nuclear-headed torpedoes, mines, nuclear-tipped shells, depth bombs and cruise
missiles all come within this category," he says.

"A number of intelligent students have shown how a simple nuclear device can be
cobbled together at little expense once the fissle material has been brought or
stolen." Captain Moore says that in this situation the problems of protection
against all forms of nuclear assault must be addressed. Mines can be laid by
merchant ships and submarines in peacetime, torpedoes can be launched into
harbours, submarines carrying cruise missiles, which can be aimed at any area
within some 2,000 miles of a coastline, can remain on patrol for months.

"These methods are in addition to the placement of devices by surrogates,
terrorists of Soviet Spetsnaz forces which could lie dormant for long periods
during a crisis. The security of any State depends on its ability to detect and
neutralize such methods of attack." He says: "From the naval point of view
nuclear deterrence rests on the ballistic missile submarines, but security
against nuclear attack requires continual surveillance of intruders and
vigilance in all waterways and ports. This includes all forms of anti-submarine
and mine detection as well as inspection of any unscheduled aircraft. The task
is immense, the forces available inadequate." Captain Moore also challenges
Britain's decision to buy the Trident strategic nuclear missile system instead
of placing nuclear cruise missiles on submarines. He comments on the estimated
Pounds 9,285 millions cost of Trident, and says: "Whatever juggling takes place
there can be no doubt about two things - the price will rise and this will have
a considerable impact on naval equipment expenditure."

He criticizes two arguments used by the Ministry of Defence against employing
cruise missiles for the deterrent. Those are that they would require more
submarines than does Trident, and that, because of the shorter range of cruise
missiles, the submarines would have less searoom in which to avoid detection.

Cruise missiles could be carried in non-nuclear submarines, Captain Moore
argues, which could be built at far less cost than the Royal Navy's new
diesel-powered class, the Type 2400.

The 1,500-mile range credited to cruise missiles would allow a submarine whose
target was Moscow to operate around the Outer Hebrides, in the waters of the
southern Norwegian Sea and the North Sea. "Anybody who has carried out
operations either in or in pursuit of a submarine in the confused waters that
can be in all these places might suggest that detection and destruction is by no
means easy."

Captain Moore also gives a warning of the possibly serious consequences of the
continuing run-down of the British merchant fleet. Between 1970 and 1982
Britain's share of the world merchant fleet fell by 50 per cent. From 1982 to
1984 her tanker fleet was reduced by 18 per cent and breakbulk/general cargo
ships by 26 per cent.

"Unless this trend is arrested the British-registered Merchant Navy will be
dissipated completely by 1993 and reliance will have to be placed on foreign or
flag-of-convenience ships."


LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           August 23, 2003, Saturday

TRAVEL: NEW YORK NEW YORK;
 ANYONE WHO VISITED BEFORE THE TERRORIST ATTACK WILL INSTANTLY NOTICE Main, the
busy streets prove a fascination for first-time visitors and those returning to
the city; above, families and friends of those who died lay flowere at the
Ground Zero site

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 1868 words


The Twin Towers still dominate New York. They no longer glitter like a Tiffany
bracelet over downtown Manhattan, but instead hang heavy in the air as a ghostly
reminder of America's darkest day.

The monolithic skyscrapers of the World Trade Centre are as prominent today as
ever before, but for a thousand different reasons than they were before
September 11 2001.

Anyone who visited the city before the terrorist attack will instantly notice
the gaping hole in the world's most famous skyline, but will also be amazed by
the humanity and humility that has filled it.

The city still reverberates with life being lived in the fastlane, but the hard
edge that gave it a reputation as being obnoxious, odious and impersonal has
been erased to uncover a new New York.

Former mayor Rudolf Giuliani may have led a charge to clean up the streets and
the city's exterior with a zero tolerance stance on crime, but it was the
terrifying events of '9/11' that changed the heart and soul of all New Yorkers
and in turn the fabric of the city -ultimately for the better.

The first thing you notice about the new NYC is the heightened security that
prevails everywhere. There is no getting away from it.

From new regulations of removing your shoes at which ever airport you enter the
country through, to armed police on every corner of Wall Street, there is a
sense that the city is leaving nothing to chance. It won't go unprepared again.

As a result it has lost a little of its robust, care-free attitude and has
become somewhat delicate -like a patient that still twitches when anyone goes
too near their operation scars. But New York is far from being lame, or content
to feel too sorry for itself.

Anything still goes in the 24hour metropolis, but only once it has been frisked,
searched and passed through a row of metal detectors.

Where once you could could stroll into the Stock Exchange, you now virtually
need a hand written note from the President himself, and hopping on the ferry to
see the great green lady Liberty out in Hudson Bay is akin to passing through
NASA's security to board the shuttle.

But perversely it all adds to the excitement of seeing some of the most famous
sites in the world. Wrapping the nation's treasures in cotton wool has elevated
the Statue of Liberty and her fellow icons to an even greater status.

The Big Apple must have more legendary landmarks every square mile than any
other city in the world. If you don't keep your wits about you and a guidebook
close to hand you can be forgiven for walking past Macy's, the Rockerfeller
Centre, Grand Central Station, City Hall and 101 other sites however many times
you have visited before.

If you don't look up you can walk right underneath the Empire State Building and
the Chrysler Building -by far the most stylish in the city -without knowing that
life is going on 86 floors above you.

And that's all on Manhattan.

Most people forget there are four other boroughs teeming with place to visit,
and driving through Queens and Brooklyn from JFK airport does not do them
justice. However, other attractions on Manhattan are impossible to miss -Time
Square, Fifth Avenue, the Guggenheim Museum and Central Park are all remarkable,
fun, buzzing, exciting places unlike anywhere else on earth.

And a stone's throw from Central Park -the 843-acre green lung of the city that
offers everything from rollerblading and roller discos to concerts and a zoo -is
the only place to stay if your pocket can stretch that far.

The Mark Hotel, on the exclusive Upper East Side, is listed among the city's top
ten and gives your break a much-needed calming influence at the end of a day on
your feet.

However, be sure to skip breakfast and head to one of a thousand corner coffee
houses for bagels or muffins, and treat yourself to half an hour of people
watching as locals busily shuffle to work.

The oddest experience of visiting New York is that everything appears so
familiar, whether its your first or 101st trip.

We have all seen so many movies and TV programmes set on its wide, tall streets
and broad, bustling avenues that the yellow cabs, smoking grates and hot dog
stands are second nature.

But what is so enthralling about New York is that if you've been there once and
done all the major the attractions and dipped your toe into what's on offer, the
next time you can do it all again with a twist for a whole new experience.

Been up the Empire State Building? Next time do it at night. Been window
shopping on Fifth Avenue? Next time save some money and actually buy something
-even for men it's surprisingly good fun. Been to Central Park? Next time take
your towel, lie out on the Great Lawn and catch some sun -its infinitely more
interesting than a beach.

Like a fast flowing river, you can never jump into New York in the same place
twice.

With the World Trade Centre gone, by definition, the greatest city in the world
appears smaller, but that's no bad thing.

The events of September 11 have made the city grow up and as a result has become
friendlier, more accessible and wiser without losing any of its style, glitz and
pizazz.

Somehow the stars now appear brighter and the stripes broader and stronger.

The first bite of an apple hyped to be the tastiest on the market could easily
be a letdown.

Beneath the eye-catching, polished golden exterior, the flesh may be bland and
artificial, leaving a bitter taste in the mouth.

But when the apple in question is the Big One -more alluring and hungered after
than one of Uncle Sam's home-made pies -the expectation is almost unbearable.

Yet the bright lights of New York City were everything I had expected them to
be. One mouthful and I was hooked.

As soon as I relaxed, champagne in hand, into my reclining business class seat
of the British Airways jet that was to carry us from Manchester to the land of
the free, I knew I was about to set foot in a city to fall in love with.

And the feeling continued throughout my stay, subsiding only slightly while
standing in a twohour queue at immigration before so much as setting foot on US
soil.

Being a romantic at heart, my ideal choice of transport to our Manhattan hotel
would have been a stretch limo, but with a $ 180 (pounds 111) pricetag, a $ 35
yellow cab seemed a more tempting option.

My first glimpse of the legendary skyline was inexplicably better than any
Athena poster. As our taxi negotiated its way through the 'walk, don't walk'
signs at the corner of each block, and the skyscrapers towered above us, I began
to feel at home.

I was won over by the effortlessly classy atmosphere that shrouds the city and
hits you as soon as you arrive.

Our five-star hotel, with its perfect location nestled among the designer stores
and museums of Upper Eastside, was an added bonus.

Located on East 77th Street between Madison and Fifth Avenue, The Mark is half a
block away from Central Park, and only a 20-minute amble from Times Square.

The thrice daily maid service and a chocolate on the pillow at night are
obviously deemed enough to justify the $ 545 standard room rate of this
favourite haunt of the rich and famous.

And while the service was impeccable, rooms spacious, well decorated and
deliciously cool, it would be tempting to instead save the dollars for a
spending spree in one of the illustrious department stores.

Bloomingdales and Saks offer by far the best choice and quality. Macy's was
disappointing and resembled a slightly more upmarket H&M without the value for
money, while Century 21, the downtown cut-price designer outlet, looked like a
car boot sale.

Any girl with a penchant for a Holly Golightly lifestyle will know the place to
go to be made to feel special is upmarket jewellers Tiffany's.

Sadly there is no cafe to live out the Breakfast At Tiffany's fantasy but even
if you don't intend to buy, a browse around the glass-topped cabinets will keep
you dreaming.

Dotted among the designer names, the boutiques of Upper Eastside offer something
a little more special at more reasonable prices.

There is just so much to do, from the obvious must-sees (Statue of Liberty,
Ellis Island, Times Square, Wall Street, Grand Central Station) to the more
off-beat and Bohemian areas of SoHo and Greenwich Village where you can dine in
the nearby authentic surroundings of Little Italy or Chinatown.

And while womankind has never been renowned for her sense of direction, the grid
network of streets and avenues makes the city easy to navigate.

I also found the subway easier to use than the London Underground, as all the
lines are numbered and each train is air-conditioned providing welcome relief
from humid summers.

But for a truly unforgettable experience, visit the Empire State Building by
night. The twinkling lights of the city from 86 storeys high fill you with as
big a buzz as any Tiffany diamond ring.

And if you're in the mood for something extra special, follow this up with a
three-course meal and cocktails at the Rainbow Room, on the 65th floor of the
Rockerfeller Center, with breathtaking views of the Empire State and downtown
Manhattan.

The city -its people, buildings, shops, diners, coffee shops -is comfortable in
its own skin. The perpetual hubbub that fills the air day and night infuse you
with an energy I had never experienced before.

Yet a ten-minute walk into Central Park and you can't believe you are in the
middle of a five-district metropolis.

There is something about NYC that captures the imagination. Here is a city where
you really could be anyone and do anything.

Even since the events of September 11, the city has maintained its pride and its
people seem united in their defiance.

I had never seen the World Trade Center towers in all their glory and it was not
until I was standing at Ground Zero that I could really appreciate the enormity
of that day.

Only then can you fully understand why stars and stripes hang from almost every
building and emergency vehicle, and why armed police officers loiter outside any
potential target.

Yet despite this 24/7 security presence, I never felt threatened and was bowled
over by the friendliness of the city and its people only too ready to help.

Be it the man on the subway, the armed security outside the Stock Exchange, shop
staff or passers-by in Central Park -all were willing to chat and lend a hand
(Londoners take note).

Here is a city whose heart sparkles and shines just as much as the hype that
surrounds it.

If just three days in the Big Apple can be this addictive -bring on the apple
pie.

Travel Facts

Sophie Blakemore and Richard Warburton flew Business Class direct from
Manchester to New York's JFK airport with British Airways. Return flights in
economy start from pounds 199 with one-way business class tickets priced at
pounds 2,364.

They stayed at The Mark Hotel, part of the Mandarin-Oriental group, on East 77th
Street, in Manhattan's Upper Eastside. Single rooms start at $ 545 (pounds 340)
a night with double rooms from $ 575 (pounds 360) a night. For more information
visit www.mandarin-oriental.com/mark/

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                August 24, 2003

3 BRITISH SOLDIERS DIE IN BASRA TERROR ATTACK; AMBUSH

BYLINE: by ROBIN HUTCHISON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 379 words


THREE British soldiers were killed in Iraq yesterday after their convoy was
ambushed.

The Royal Military Policemen were on patrol in the country's second city Basra
when they came under attack.

Eyewitnesses claimed the attackers fired on their grey four-wheel drive Nissan
from the back of a red pickup truck.

Iraqi Salam Sadeh, 21, a drink seller, said: "A gunman on the back of the pickup
truck fire several rounds.

"No soldiers in the Nissan returned fire.

"The Nissan began to swerve across the road and it smashed into the side of a
bakery.

"After that the gunman threw grenades into the vehicle, then they drove off."

A fourth soldier suffered serious injuries.

A soldier at the scene of the attack said: "It's a terrible thing but we just
have to carry on doing our job.

"We're just trying to carry on as normal."

Remains of the vehicle were lifted on to the back of a British Army lorry and
carried away before the area was cordoned off.

The ground was littered with debris from the wreckage, military dressings, and
bags from IV drips.

An investigation has been launched into the deaths, which come less than two
weeks after the last combat killing of a British soldier.

The tragedy has been blamed on Saddam Hussein's supporters who have pledged to
kick US and British troops out of Iraq.

But there are growing fears they could have been helped by Moslem terrorists who
have been flooding into the country in recent weeks.

Troops cordoned off part of the city and stopped and searched trucks in a
desperate bid to catch the killers.

The Ministry of Defence said the attack, which took place at around 8.30am local
time, had been contained.

A spokeswoman in Basra said: "A convoy of two vehicles were travelling through
Basra in a routine movement when they were ambushed by gunmen from a pick-up
truck.

"The convoy consisted of a military Land Rover and a civilian four-wheel drive.

"All members of the convoy were wearing military uniforms and were armed. An
investigation has started.

"This is a difficult time for all and our priority is to inform the families of
those concerned."

The deaths take the toll to ten British soldiers killed in combat since the war
was declared over on May 1.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 Express Newspapers

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Eastern Daily Press

                                August 27, 2003

It is the equipment they hope they never have to use. But with the threat of a
terror attack now ever-present, the East Anglian Ambulance Service has revealed
the state-of-the-art resources it has to cope with an attack.

BYLINE: YALLOP

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 478 words


It is the equipment they hope they never have to use.

But with the threat of a terror attack now ever-present, the East Anglian
Ambulance Service has revealed the state-of-the-art resources it has to cope
with an attack.

The Government has made £5m available nationally for equipping decontamination
units, including inflatable tents, shower units and protective suits, all of
which are disposable should they become contaminated.

The East Anglian service has also provided £160,000 from its own funds to buy
six incident support vehicles, two each for Norfolk, Suffolk and Cambridgeshire.

Of each pair for each county, one is a major incident vehicle while the other is
a decontamination vehicle.

Roy Wallis, assistant director of field operations, said the service was as
ready as it could be to deal with a big incident.

"We are here to reassure the public. At the end of the day we hope we never have
to use it and it is just as likely to be used for an accidental release of
chemicals as it is for terrorism," he said.

But it was difficult to know how prepared the service needed to be.

"Can you ever be prepared enough? You never know how big anything will be if it
happens," he said.

"If you think of September 11, how could you have prepared for that? But you
have to sensible with funding and training - if you have met government
standards, then what more can you do?"

Part of the equipment is 200 lime- green decontamination suits. Made from the
protective material Tyvek, they cost £380 and are resistant to 15 lethal
chemical, biological, radio-logical and nuclear chemicals.

They are uncomfortable and can be worn for only an hour, with their filters
needing to be changed every 20 minutes.

There are a further 600 disposable suits, and each unit needs a staff of 10.
Each can treat 100 casualties.

As well as training its own staff to manage the units, the ambulance service has
also trained staff at the eight acute hospitals in the region, including the
Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital, the James Paget Hospital at Gorleston
and the Queen Elizabeth Hospital at King's Lynn.

So far, 120 staff have received full training but another 180 need to be found
before next April to meet government training targets.

Dave Kerry, system emergency planning co-ordinator for Norfolk, said East Anglia
was better prepared for a major incident than other areas of the country that
had not invested in new vehicles for the equipment.

"I think we are well prepared now but we still have a little way to go to
perfect some of the systems. That will come with practice," he said.

The East Anglian Ambulance Service also has a mutual aid agreement with Essex,
Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire and has close links with London, so should a
major incident happen in Norfolk there would be support vehicles from other
counties on hand

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2003

                   © Copyright 2003 Eastern Daily Press (EDP)

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                August 27, 2003

ATTACK TERROR

LENGTH: 75 words


    GARDAI are hunting a burly man with a moustache who assaulted a woman as she
walked alone in Galway in the early hours.

    The attack happened in Upper Abbeygate Street as a large crowd was leaving
the nearby Central Park nightclub at about 2.15am on Monday.

    Gardai have not revealed if it was a sexual assault.

    Anyone who witnessed the incident is asked to contact Garda John Feeney at
Galway Garda Station, phone (091) 538000.


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           August 28, 2003, Thursday

GARDENERS' FEAR OF ARMED THUGS;
 SPATE OF TERROR ATTACKS ON ALLOTMENT SITES

BYLINE: TONY DEELEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 210 words


A GANG of armed thugs is terrorising gardeners at an allotments site, setting
fire to sheds and ripping up crops.

Police at West Bromwich are investigating after a spate of attacks on plots on
the Lee Howl allotments site at Tipton over the past two years. In the latest
incident on Saturday ten sheds were set alight.

Gardeners said today it was the ninth arson attack in the past four months and
that almost every day they were being victimised.

They have now approached Sandwell Council about having extra security on the
site. Coun Ahmadul Haque, who owns one of the allotments, claimed a gang of
about 30 thugs armed with knives and other weapons had been terrorising plot
holders. He was confronted by some of the group a fortnight ago.

'The police told me they did not have the rescources to deal with the incident,'
he said.

Allotments association secretary, Sid Parker, complained of an incident last
week when thugs broke into the site and terrified one of the members, destroying
his plot.

'They were ripping out his vegetables and flinging them at him. We decided to
leave for our own safety,' he said. Insp Paul Marriott of West Bromwich police
said today: 'We are aware of these complaints and are investigating.'

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                August 29, 2003

Livingstone: I thought it might be terrorist attack

BYLINE: ROSS LYDALL

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 605 words


AS Ken Livingstone stood in his office and watched the lights suddenly go out in
London, he feared the capital had been the target of a terrorist attack.

Within minutes, he was told the cause of the darkness was a massive power cut,
and today Mr Livingstone was blaming a lack of investment in the capital's
infrastructure for the night of chaos.

Speaking to the Evening Standard from his office in City Hall after the power
cut, the Mayor admitted he had feared the worst when the lights went out.

He said: "I was in my office and saw east London go dark, then saw south London
go dark. My first thought was that it might be a terrorist attack.

"But the Metropolitan Police commissioner's office confirmed it looked like a
failure of the national power grid."

Clearly angered, he said it was not surprising that London had followed the
United States so quickly with a major electricity failure. "The one thing that
Britain and America share is that they won't invest in their infrastructure," he
said.

"When an advanced industrial nation has its power fail, it isn't bad luck.

It's bad decisionmaking in the past. I suspect this is long-term
under-investment."

He said travellers faced an "absolute nightmare" to get home and added the only
good news was his investment in the night bus network, which would help to ease
the situation for stranded passengers.

Along with thousands of other Londoners, he faced a long walk home after Tube
trains came to a halt.

"As my line (the Jubilee line) is most probably one that won't get back up, it's
going to be another one of those long walks," he said, referring to how he gets
to and from work from his home in Cricklewood during Tube strikes.

He said Tim O'Toole, the American he appointed managing director of London
Underground, had launched an investigation into the effect of the power cut.

The Mayor said many traffic lights had failed, causing an oil spill at Elephant
and Castle that created extra problems for motorists.

He added that evidence about the state of the Tube's infrastructure had already
emerged five weeks after the network had come under his control.

"Some of the equipment we are finding is in other people's transport museums
around the world," he said.

"We have just got so much under-investment, it's a disgrace.

"We are finding control rooms with signs on them saying, 'Do not open this door
- asbestos'. There has been negligent underinvestment."

HOW LONDON IS POWERED

.London receives all its power from high-voltage circuits from the National
Grid. Each of these circuits carries 275,000 volts.

.A smaller power grid, operated by EDF Energy, converts this power into usable
voltages and transports it to homes and businesses in the capital.

.7,440km of overhead wires and 117,100km of underground cables are used to
deliver power to London and the South-East.

.The power station at Lots Road, Chelsea (pictured), had been used to supply the
entire Underground but was taken out of use 10 months ago.

.Experts believe the London blackout was caused by a single circuit serving

three areas - Wimbledon, Hurst and New Cross - failing.

.The crash caused a knock-on effect throughout the London power network as
systems required time to restart.

. Electricity shortages have led to the National Grid reducing its reserve
supplies, which were previously held at about 28 per cent, to under 10 per cent.

.Several power stations around the UK have been mothballed due to falling
electricity prices, with power companies saying they were not viable to operate.

END

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                August 29, 2003

JET ATTACK ON TERRORIST

LENGTH: 83 words


    A MISSILE attack by an Israeli warplane killed a Hamas militant as he rode
in his donkey cart last night.

    Hamdi Kalakh, 23, was said to be a terrorist who had launched rocket attacks
on remote Israeli settlements. His donkey was also killed.

    The air strike, which left three other Palestinians injured, was in southern
Gaza.

    It came after Hamas fired a rocket into Ashkelon -the first such attack on
an Israeli city.

    No one was hurt and Kalakh was not behind the attack.


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 30, 2003

SHOCKING LAST WORDS OF TRAPPED VICTIMS IN SEPTEMBER 11 TERROR ATTACKS REVEAL
THAT HUNDREDS WERE TOLD TO REMAIN IN THE DOOMED BUILDINGS; 'STAY IN THE TWIN
TOWERS . . . DON'T ATTEMPT ESCAPE'

BYLINE: From Ivor Key in New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  39

LENGTH: 911 words


HUNDREDS of people among nearly 3,000 killed in the September 11 atrocities died
because they were told to stay put in the doomed Twin Towers.

The disclosure comes in just-released transcripts of desperate emergency calls
and radio transmissions between personnel - many of them trapped - of the Port
Authority which built the World Trade Center in New York.

Beginning a moment before the first plane struck at 8.46am and continuing for
nearly two hours after the final collapse at 10.28am, they reveal the terror and
confusion that reigned, as well as the calm determination of those trying to
save lives.

But the formerly top-secret tapes provide the first evidence that its workers
told some of the stranded not to evacuate the buildings during and after the
time the hijacked planes were crashed into the pair of 110storey buildings.

In once instance, a caller from the 92nd floor of the south tower after the
north tower had been hit, told a Port Authority policeman on the ground: "We
need to know if we should get out of here."

After the officer asked if there was smoke on the floor, he replied: "No, we
smell it though, " adding, "should we stay or evacuate? I'm waiting for an
answer."

The obviously confused police officer said:

"I would wait until further notice."

"Okay, all right, " said the man. "Don't evacuate!" They were his last words to
the outside before, like everybody else stuck on the top floors of the south
tower, he died as the building collapsed into a heap of rubble.

Of the 2,792 people killed, nearly 1,300 remain lost without an identifiable
trace of them being found.

The Port Authority, which lost 19 policemen and 14 civilian workers, never
intended the transcripts to be made public because they feared they would
trigger protests from some relatives of the victims, but a judge ordered them
released as the second anniversary of the terrifying disaster approached.

The transcripts paint a horrific and disturbing picture of the last moments of
at least 36 of the victims who either identified themselves or their voices were
recognised by fellow workers.

"The whole building is going to come down on me, " said one about-to-die woman.

"The building is starting to come down on my right." Her mobile phone line then
went dead.

There are also harrowing accounts of callers seeing people throwing themselves
off the Twin Towers to escape the fires fuelled by thousands of gallons of
aviation fuel, with one man on the ground shouting incredulously: "Yo, I've got
dozens of bodies, people jumping from the top of buildings."

An equally disbelieving female replies:

"Sir, you have WHAT jumping from buildings?" to which he replied: "People.
Bodies coming out of the sky."

Among the confusion and pain there are brief moments of joy as one man tells his
wife after escaping the inferno: "I just wanted to tell you I love you . . .
when the building started coming down I ran for my life.

Honey, I survived."

Despite some of the agency's cops and officials giving well-meant advice which
turned out to be fatal for some, the agency's spokesman Greg Trevor said: "In
general, they show people performing their duties very heroically and very
professionally on a day of horror."

But the logs also show that an order to evacuate the entire complex was not
given until 9.03a. m - 18 minutes after the first plane hit and about the time
the second struck.

Parts of the transcripts indicate serious problems encountered by people trying
to escape the towers, including trouble in opening doors to the escape
stairwells.

"Open up 103, can you hear me?"

screamed one man using a Port Authority radio from the 103rd floor. "You've got
a guy here . . . me. People are stuck in the stairway. Open up the goddam
doors."

"Heat is increasing . . . hell, " he shouts before the transmission ends as
flames are believed to have engulfed him and the others who were trapped. Port
Authority officials have said that some of the stairwell doors were blocked by
debris or became jammed when the towers shifted after the planes ploughed into
them.

Another man called from a lift: "Listen, please be advised I've got 18
passengers stuck in the 78th sky lobby elevator.

"They're trying to get us out. We need the EMS (emergency service personnel)
over here at the double."

They too are all believed to have been killed.

In another harrowing call minutes before she died, a woman named Christine,
calling from the Windows of the World at the top of the north tower, blurts out:
"The fresh air is going down fast! I'm not exaggerating."

"Uh, ma'am, I know you're not exaggerating, " said a police officer at the other
end of the line as he promised to send firefighters up to the restaurant on the
106th floor.

"What are we going to do for air?" the woman asks and then, as though she was
asking a cop for directions, "can we break a window?"

"You can do whatever you have to get air, " he tells her. "All right, " she
replies. There's a sound of breaking glass and the conversation ends. She too
died.

There are other heart-wrenching conversations including one from the the Port
Authority director's wife Christy Ferrer who telephoned the director of the
World Trade Center informing officials that New York State Governor George
Pataki was looking for her husband Neil "and so am I - no one can find him."

She found out later that he had been killed.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           September 1, 2003, Monday

SECURITY FORCES THWART TERRORIST ATTACK ON DELHI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 198 words


ANTI-TERRORIST measures by security forces prevented a aaspectacular attack by a
Pakistan-based militant group in Indias capital, police said yesterday.

Police killed two suspected members of the outlawed Jaish-e-Mohammed group in a
sprawling park in New Delhi on Saturday night, hours after explosives were
seized in two separate raids. Three people were arrested.

The actions in the capital came after paramilitary soldiers in Indian-
controlled Kashmir said they killed the Jaish-e-Mohammed head of Indian
operations, Ghazi Baba, suspected of being the mastermind of an attack on Indias
parliament in December 2001 that brought nuclear-armed rivals India and Pakistan
close to war.

The exact target would have been disclosed to them by Jaish headquarters a short
time before the actual strike, police Joint Commissioner Niraj Kumar said,
referring to the suspected militants.

aaIt would have been something spectacular like VVIPs (very, very important
persons), symbols of national importance like the India Gate and Red Fort,
something like that.

Jaish-e-Mohammed is fighting security forces to separate Kashmir from Indian
control or to merge with Pakistan.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Century Newspapers Limited

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           September 1, 2003, Monday

GANG TERRORISE VAN DRIVER DAD;
 HAMMER ATTACK ON VICTIM

BYLINE: GURDIP THANDI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 323 words


A ROAD rage attacker struck a father of two with a sledgehammer and dragged him
along the road behind a car.

The 35-year-old, who has asked for his name to be withheld for fear of
reprisals, was driving his white transit van along the Black Country New Road in
Moxley, Darlaston, just after midnight yesterday when he was flashed from behind
by a car.

He pulled over thinking the car, a dark Daihatsu, wanted to pass him but instead
it shunted into the back of his van.

He stopped and the car pulled up alongside him. The car's passenger then leant
out and smashed the van's windscreen with a sledge hammer.

He then got out of the car and swung the hammer again, this time hitting the man
on the arm.

The victim, who lives in Wednesbury with his wife and two daughters, aged ten
and six, got out to take down the Daihatsu's registration number. But the car
suddenly drove at him, clipping him on the side of his body. The man's coat got
caught in the car's bumper and he was dragged along for several yards.

The gang then rammed their car into the van for a second time before speeding
off on the wrong side of the road towards Wolverhampton.

The victim said today: 'I was absolutely petrified because it was an unprovoked
attack.

'I felt sick afterwards and could not get to sleep. It was very scary and not
the sort of thing you expect when you are driving home.

'I was hit on the arm with the sledgehammer while they put the windscreen
through. It hurt but I didn't need to go to hospital.'

Insp Paul Lewin, of Bloxwich police, said: 'This was a terrifying attack which
left the driver understandably traumatised, and there could have been more
serious consequences.' HoodedThe Daihatsu passenger is described as white,
stocky build, around 5ft 8ins and was wearing a black zip up hooded top and blue
jeans.

Anyone with any information is urged to contact Bloxwich police on 0845 113
5000.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 1, 2003, Monday

ANTI-TERRORIST POLICE FOIL BOMB ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 63 words


ANTI-TERRORISTmeasures by security forces prevented a "spectacular" attack by a
Pakistan - based militant group in India's capital,according to police.

Officers killed two suspected members of the outlawedJaish-e-Mohammed group in a
sprawling park in New Delhi lateSaturday night,hours after explosives were
seized in two separate raids, and three people were arrested.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 1, 2003, Monday

SHOOT-OUT THAT LEFT TWO DEAD THWARTED FRESH TERROR ATTACK, CLAIM INDIAN POLICE

BYLINE: PHIL REEVES IN DELHI

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 476 words


INDIA'S SECURITY forces, under pressure to produce results after the Bombay
bombings a week ago, claimed at the weekend to have foiled a terrorist plot and
killed a senior militant leader.

Delhi police said they had averted a major attack by killing two armed Muslims
from Jaish-e-Mohammed, one of the militant groups fighting Indian forces
Kashmir, in a gun battle in a park on Saturday night. Officials said the men had
been waiting to pick up a consignment of arms, and that they opened fire on the
police.

Niraj Kumar, Delhi police's joint commissioner, said: "The exact target would
have been disclosed to them by Jaish headquarters a short time before the actual
strike. It would have been something spectacular like VVIPs very, very important
persons , symbols of national importance like the India Gate and the Red Fort,
something like that."

The police claims will be treated with scepticism by some, as Indian police have
a reputation for staging shoot-outs for public consumption at times of crisis.
The capital's police also said that they intercepted a fruit truck carrying hand
grenades, shells and a grenade launcher on Saturday. Three men were arrested. A
few hours earlier, police said they found a bag containing 46lb of explosives on
a platform of Delhi's main railway station.

Television news programmes were filled with images of a gunfight in the
Indian-controlled part of Kashmir on Saturday. At the end of the 10-hour battle,
a spokesman for India's Border Security Force said troops had killed Ghazi Baba,
the head of Jaish-e-Mohammed in India.

If true - and the claim was disputed - Indian security forces will see the
killing as an important breakthrough.

They suspect Baba of having masterminded an attack in Delhi in December 2001.
That assault laid the ground for a stand-off between India and Pakistan last
summer in which both sides massed their armies along their disputed borders.

Delhi has been on a high security alert since last Monday, when 52 people were
killed by two bombs in what is now known as Bombay's Black Monday, one of them
at the tourist landmark the Gateway of India. The other bomb detonated at Zaveri
Bazaar in south Bombay, close to a Hindu temple and within a popular market
crammed with gold and jewellery stalls.

India's jittery mood has been intensified by another wave of violence in Jammu
and Kashmir, where tens of thousands of people have died in the past 14 years.

Yesterday, India and Pakistan were trading fire across the disputed state,
reportedly leaving five people dead including a 15-year-old girl.

She was hit by shrapnel from an Indian artillery shell that landed near her home
in Nakyal, about 160 miles south of Muzaffarabad, the capital of the
Pakistani-controlled part of Kashmir, according to Raja Ghulam Sarwar, a police
superintendent.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 1, 2003, Monday

SEAL BROKE MY LEG;
 SURFER TERROR AS HE'S NEARLY DROWNED IN SEASIDE ATTACK

BYLINE: EMMA BRITTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 214 words

HIGHLIGHT: CULPRIT: A seal at Waxham; BREAK: Wesley's leg X-ray; LIFESAVER:
Wesley with his brother-in-law Richard, who rescued him


SURFER Wesley Cook's leg was broken in three places and he almost drowned in a
suspected seal attack.

Wesley, 32, was paddling on a bodyboard 200 yards from shore when he felt a
"tremendous blow" and a searing pain in his right leg.

He said: "I saw my foot had nearly snapped off. It was a horrific sight as it
had turned nearly 180 degrees around.

"I was trying to swim, but I couldn't and the waves kept crashing over my head.I
thought I was going to drown.

"My leg went numb and I thought the thing might come back again."

Brother-in-law Richard Archer, 35, heard his screams and swam out to rescue him.
His sister Tina, 34, grabbed a mobile phone from a holidaymaker and dialled 999
from Waxham Sands near Great Yarmouth, Norfolk. Wesley, of Ickleford, Herts, was
airlifted to hospital in Norwich, where surgeons inserted screws in his
shattered leg.

The window cleaner, on holiday with daughters Megan, seven, and Katey, six, to
give pregnant wife Andrea a break, faces three months off work.

Coastguards said: "There is a colony of seals at Waxham Sands. If you approach
the youngsters on the beach the adults will charge and can bite."

In July, Levi Clarke, 21, was rammed by a 6ft seal at Leigh-on-Sea, Essex,
breaking his leg in three places.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS

             UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The West Country

                               September 2, 2003

Vicar attacked and terrorised by youths

LENGTH: 93 words

DATELINE: The West Country


TEENAGE yobs are running amok in a Puriton churchyard - vandalising graves
abusing churchgoers and even attacking the vicar.

St Mary and All Angels Church has become a meeting place for gangs of youths who
terrorise its congregation and lash out at graves and the church itself.

The porch has been vandalised so many times new iron gates are being installed
to protect it.

And the vicar the Rev David MacGeoch has even been assaulted by a gang of
teenagers while he was getting out of a hearse.

See this week's Mercury front-page story.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               September 2, 2003

Two face questions on Ulster terror attacks

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 287 words


A man and woman held by police investigating the Omagh bomb atrocity were also
being questioned last night about a series of other attacks by dissident
republicans opposed to the peace process in Northern Ireland.



Officers investigating the worst terrorist outrage in the 30 years of bloodshed
ordered their detention after widening inquires in an attempt to bring the Real
IRA killers to justice.

Up to 200 police and troops were involved in a major security swoop to seize the
couple at a house in Jonesborough, South Armagh.

Senior security sources confirmed the arrests represented a significant
breakthrough in the five-year hunt but last night it was not clear if charges
were imminent. The pair were being interrogated at Gough Barracks, Armagh city.

The arrests are unlikely to affect the £10m High Court compensation claim by
some of the families of the dead against five men they alleged were involved in
the outrage.

Relatives claimed the scale of the South Armagh arrest operation indicated that
security chiefs were acting on strong evidence, and did not believe their
unprecedented civil action, which the Government is backing with £800,000 of
funding, would distract from any criminal proceedings.

It is understood the arrests are linked to one of the cars which is thought have
been used at the time the 500lb bomb was transported through the West Tyrone
countryside before being abandoned, killing 29 people, one of them a woman
pregnant with twins, in August 1998.

One of the misleading bomb warnings which left police ushering hundreds of
civilians into the path of the car bomb instead of away from lower Market Street
was made from a telephone box in South Armagh.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2004

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    Time Out

                               September 03, 2003

#3 NEWS TUBE TERROR ATTACK;
 THE KNOWLEDGE

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 369 words


A mock terrorist attack this week will show just how prepared we really are.

Too little, too late, is the warning from the Fire Brigades Union (FBU) over
theGovernment's provisions to deal with a possible terrorist attack on London.
'Thesituation has improved somewhat since earlier in the year, but we are not
fully fledged in terms of equipment, ' said Mick Shaw, FBU Executive Council
Member for London. Shaw's comment comes in the run-up to a mock terrorist
attack, whichwill be held by London Underground at Bank station on September 7.
Several hundred police, ambulance staff and firefighters will converge on the
station inthe mock attack to test the reaction of the emergency services to
possible chemical or biological strikes.

Despite funds from the Greater London Authority amounting to GBP 11 million,
there are some obvious gaps in the fire service. It has only received four out
of a promised ten interim incidence response units (portable decontamination
showers)to deal with biological and chemical attacks. Other areas with apparent
weaknesses were the provision of urban search and rescue equipment. The fire
brigade had originally bid for GBP 280m for the equipment, but so far had
received something in the region of GBP 10m, said Shaw. Although an order had
been placed, the service is also still waiting to receive new personal dose
meters, which measure exposure to radiation. The current ones have been in place
since the 1940s. Simon Lubin from the British Transport Police, which is
co-ordinating themock exercise, also expressed concerns over outdated chemical
monitoring equipment for his organisation. And according to Shaw: 'The
Government has been painfully slow in releasing funds. An attack could happen
tomorrow.' The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister said it had allocated GBP 56m
to the new mass decontamination programme to provide national capability,
incident equipment andtraining, and that the new state-ofthe-art equipment had
now been supplied to brigades. 'Appropriate safety and security measures are in
place and relevant authorities including the emergency services are co-operating
closely, ' said a spokesman for the ODPM. Rebecca Taylor

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2003 Time Out Group

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               September 3, 2003

My arson attacks terror -- mother

LENGTH: 450 words


A YOUNG mother and her two-year-old daughter have been the victim of more than
five arson attacks over the last six months.

Kaydean Gilfillian now fears that she and her daughter Kalista are being
targeted by a racist firebug.

The back door and the garden fence of the house in Wordsworth Avenue Farnworth
have been set alight six times.

Fire chiefs today warned that if the attacker is not caught quickly Miss
Gilfillian and her daughter could be seriously injured -- or even killed.

Detectives investigating the arson attacks believe gangs of children may be
responsible.

Miss Gilfillian aged 22 moved to the area about 18 months ago from Westhoughton
but started having problems earlier this year.

Fortunately the property is fitted with smoke alarms so the young mother and her
daughter have been alerted to all of the fires before they managed to spread.

During the latest incident last Thursday night arsonists set fire to her side
fence which spread to a rabbit hutch in her neighbour's garden badly singeing
the rabbit's fur.

Two weeks ago wood panels which had been placed over her badly damaged back door
were set alight.

Miss Gilfillian who works as a legal administrator at a solicitors office said
she is determined the arsonists will not drive her from her home.

She said: "They are cowards and I will not be bullied into leaving. The attacks
are becoming more frequent and I am worried about what they are going to do
next.

"I thought the first fire was serious but didn't think anything of it. Children
are always running in and out of the gardens smashing windows and stealing
plants in this area so I put it down to that.

"Now I definitely think I am being targeted. I think it is race-related. Some of
the children verbally abuse my daughter and me when we go to the local shop they
shout racist names.

"You would think these kind of incidents would be out-dated in this day and age
but it still goes on.

"Children used to play in the garden of this house and use it as a short cut
before I moved in and I don't think they like the fact I am always telling them
to get out.

"Everytime there is a fire I have to get my daughter of out of her bed.
Fortunately she is too young to realise what is going on.

"The house smells of smoke and I am constantly having to clean up."

Chief Insp Patrick McKelvey of Bolton Police said: "We treat all matters
seriously especially arson attacks or racially aggravated crimes.

"We are determined to catch the perpetrators."

*Anyone with information about the attacks is asked to ring Bolton Police on
0161 856 5593 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               September 3, 2003

Top policeman says UK terror attack inevitable

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 275 words


Britain's most senior police officer has warned that a terrorist attack in the
United Kingdom, possibly by suicide bombers, was inevitable.



Scotland Yard Commissioner Sir John Stevens said that there has been a "quantum
leap" in the general threat from terrorism following a series of bombings across
the globe.

There was no specific intelligence of an attack but he believed it would happen
in time.

"The suicide threat is there and we have to take account of that.

"We are at the highest level of alert, I think, that we have ever been," Sir
John said in an interview with Reuters.

Sir John has warned repeatedly in recent months that the nature of the terrorist
threat has changed completely from when Irish bombers were the most likely
source of an attack.

"That quantum leap is all about people prepared to give their lives in relation
to their causes," he said.

"The Prime Minister says an attack is inevitable and I think that is probably
right. When it happens, we have to have everything in place".


Sir John has also warned that anti-terrorist police are being overworked.

Anti-terrorist police have arrested more than 300 people since the September 11
atrocities.

Detectives were also said to be fighting an on-going battle against Al-Qaida
recruiters in Britain.

"Everywhere is a recruiting ground.

"That's the lesson we've learnt, how sophisticated they are," Sir John said.

"We need a lot more work to understand the religious fundamentalists".


Sir John backs new approaches, including Home Secretary David Blunkett's
controversial proposal for compulsory national identity cards.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2004

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          September 4, 2003, Thursday

POLICE CHIEF SAYS TERROR ATTACKS ARE INEVITABLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 283 words


Britain's most senior police officer yesterday warned that a terrorist attack in
the United Kingdom, possibly by suicide bombers, was inevitable.

Scotland Yard Commissioner Sir John Stevens reinforced his view that there has
been a 'quantum leap' in the general threat from terrorism following a series of
bombings across the globe.

There was no specific intelligence of an attack but he believed it would happen
in time.

'The suicide threat is there and we have to take account of that.

'We are at the highest level of alert, I think, that we have ever been,' Sir
John said. He has warned repeatedly in recent months that the nature of the
terrorist threat has changed completely from when Irish bombers were the most
likely source of an attack.

'That quantum leap is all about people prepared to give their lives in relation
to their causes,' he said.

'The Prime Minister says an attack is inevitable and I think that is probably
right. When it happens, we have to have everything in place.'

Sir John has also warned that anti-terrorist police are being overworked and
have arrested more than 300 people since the September 11 atrocities.

Detectives are fighting an ongoing battle against al Qaida recruiters in
Britain.

'Everywhere is a recruiting ground. That's the lesson we've learnt, how
sophisticated they are,' Sir John said. 'We need a lot more work to understand
the religious fundamentalists.'

Sir John backs new approaches, including Home Secretary David Blunkett's
controversial proposal for compulsory national identity cards.

He believes they would have a 'massively beneficial effect' in the fight against
terrorism and organised crime.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 4, 2003

Police chief warns UK terror attack is inevitable

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 282 words


Britain's most senior police officer yesterday warned that a terrorist attack in
the United Kingdom, possibly by suicide bombers, was inevitable.

Sir John Stevens, Scotland Yard Commissioner, reinforced his view that there has
been a "quantum leap" in the general threat from terrorism after a series of
bombings across the globe.

There was no specific intelligence of an attack but he believed it would happen
in time.

"The suicide threat is there and we have to take account of that. We are at the
highest level of alert, I think, that we have ever been," Sir John said.

He has warned repeatedly in recent months that the nature of the terrorist
threat has changed completely from when Irish bombers were the most likely
source of an attack.

"That quantum leap is all about people prepared to give their lives in relation
to their causes," he said.

"The prime minister says an attack is inevitable and I think that is probably
right. When it happens, we have to have everything in place."

Sir John has also warned that anti-terrorist police are being overworked. They
have arrested more than 300 people since the September 11 atrocities.

Detectives are fighting a battle against al Qaeda recruiters in Britain.

"Everywhere is a recruiting ground. That's the lesson we've learned, how
sophisticated they are," Sir John said.

"We need a lot more work to understand the religious fundamentalists."

Sir John backs new approaches, including home secretary David Blunkett's
controversial proposal for compulsory national identity cards.

He believes they would have a "massively beneficial effect" in the fight against
terrorism and organised crime.

LOAD-DATE: September 04, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               September 4, 2003

Peace groups unite to mark US terror attack anniversary

BYLINE: Johnathan Schroder

LENGTH: 448 words


AS the second anniversary of the terror attacks on America approaches peace
campaigners in Haringey are preparing to mark the day in a very special way.

Several events will be taking place in the borough two years after more than 3
000 people died in terrorist attacks on New York Washington and Pennsylvania.

Friendship Global is an organisation set up by the Shrestha sisters aged ten and
eight from Wood Green which aims to promote world peace from a grass-roots
level.

Barbara Roche MP for Hornsey and Wood Green is set to unveil a plaque at their
house in Morley Avenue on Thursday.

Later that day a tree is due to be named as the Friendship Tree. The day will
also mark the official launch of Friendship Eye Friendship Global's magazine
which is being produced in braille and audio cassette created with the help of
the Haringey Phoenix Group.

Ms Roche said: "I am pleased to have been asked by Friendship Global to unveil
the commemorative plaque to mark the foundation of Friendship Global. The group
has laudable aims and I am proud the organisation has its roots in Wood Green."

Later this month the Haringey Peace Alliance is organising its annual Peace
Week. The first event took place in 2001 following the terrorist strikes and it
has grown in popularity in the two years since.

Events including workshops and sports tournaments take place from September 22
to 28. A festival and concert will be held on September 27 and a peace walk on
September 28. For more information call the group on 8808 9439.

Puma Lagos a spokeswoman for the Haringey Peace Alliance said: "We want to
integrate everyone in the community and we want as many people as possible to
get involved.

"We want peace in our community and must work together to achieve this."

However while most will remember the tragic events of that day in sombre mood
posters have been put up at various spots in the borough advertising an Islamic
conference to applaud the 'Magnificent 19' who took part in the hijackings.

The event is being organised by extremist group Al-Muhajiroun whose UK leader
Anjem Choudary lives in Tottenham. Secrecy surrounds the venue for the
controversial event which will be made public on the day.

A statement on the group's website sends the message: "During the customary one
minute's silence in New York and elsewhere Muslims worldwide will again be
watching replays of the collapse of the Twin Towers and be praying for the
reverberations to continue until the eradication of all man-made law and the
implementation of divine law carrying the message of Islam to the world and
striving for the total domination of the world by Islam."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 5, 2003

BLUNKETT WARNS PUBLIC TO BE 'PREPARED' FOR SUICIDE BOMBS; WE CAN'T STOP A
TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: By John Twomey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 476 words


A SUICIDE attack on the streets of London is a "logical" fear in the
postSeptember 11 world, Home Secretary David Blunkett warned yesterday.

Britain has to be prepared for the possibility of a kamikaze raid and public
safety cannot be guaranteed by the forces of law and order, he said.

But Mr Blunkett added that a suicide attack by terrorists linked to Osama Bin
Laden's Al Qaeda network was not necessarily inevitable.

He was speaking after Britain's top policeman Sir John Stevens underlined the
dangers faced by Londoners from religious extremists. Sir John's remarks echoed
fears expressed by Eliza ManninghamBuller, director general of MI5.

Mr Blunkett praised the work of the police and the secret intelligence services
in thwarting attacks so far.

Asked if a suicide bombing in London was inevitable, he said: "I am not using
'inevitability', I am simply drawing on the fact that this has been said both by
Sir John previously and the head of MI5, and it's a logical conclusion from
everything that has happened across the world, that we need to be prepared for
that. It is the preparation, the good intelligence, the security that is
protecting us at the moment.

"If we can get that right then, of course, every effort will go into preventing
an action, but as we saw over the 30 years of intimidation and attack from
Northern Ireland, we cannot, in the end, guarantee to the public that we will
always be able to protect them from the kind of suicide, the kind of
intimidation, the kind of terror that we have seen happening right across the
world since September 11, 2001."

Police and intelligence chiefs have urged the public to be alert to the
continued threat, but not to be alarmed.

Mr Blunkett, speaking during a tour of Feltham Young Offenders Institute in west
London, said: "All of us living and working in London have a task to be vigilant
ourselves, but we rely heavily on the intelligence and security services who are
doing a first class job."

The Home Secretary spoke out as emergency service personnel prepared to tackle
the nightmare scenario of a chemical attack on a packed Tube train to test their
ability to tackle a terror strike.

Stranded in a tunnel deep underground, victims of the simulated outrage will be
rescued by firefighters in chemical suits before being treated for the effects
of poison fumes and put through decontamination units.

The exercise, designed to be as realistic as possible, will be run at Bank
station in the heart of the City of London on Sunday morning.

The ban on flights by UK airlines to and from the Kenyan town of Mombasa was
lifted yesterday after nearly four months. It will enable holiday airline
Monarch to resume its once-a-week service to Mombasa. The ban had been imposed
following a specific threat against British planes in the region.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 5, 2003

London tube test for terror gas attack

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 774 words


On an ordinary Sunday morning, a London tube train pulls out of Bank station
carrying scores of passengers reading books, browsing the newspapers or just
chatting.

Suddenly they begin fighting for breath as the air in the carriage is poisoned
by a mystery gas. There is panic and the train lurches to a halt in a black
tunnel. And so, according to the government, the nightmare begins.

This is the scenario that will be tested this weekend as emergency planners
stage the most realistic live disaster exercise of its kind in the capital.

The passengers will be 60 police cadets, the mystery chemical a fake, but the
reaction of officials and the emergency services will be as close to reality as
government planners can make them.

The purpose is to test the procedures for mass decontamination in the event of a
chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear attack. London Fire Brigade and
London Ambulance Service equipment will receive a realistic time test, including
chemical suits bought for pounds 350,000.

The exercise will also test arrangements at University College Hospital, which
would take most of the casualties. The hospital will be challenged to deal with
stricken passengers from the scene and those who turn up after suffering a
delayed reaction. Medical staff will wear protective clothing and set up a
decontamination unit to strip and wash suspected casualties.

Since the attacks in America on September 11, the government has staged a series
of exercises away from public view, involving ministers, the intelligence
services and the most senior emergency service personnel who sit on the
top-level Cobra committee. But the exercise this weekend will focus on the
response on the ground.

Sir John Stevens, the Metropolitan police commissioner, said this week that
London is almost certain to suffer a terrorist attack, but ministers stress the
exercise is not a response to any specific threat.

However, the capital's emergency planning is not without controversy.

The Guardian has learned that members of the Fire Brigades Union are refusing to
take part in trials relating to their new chemical suits, because they say their
members should receive additional payments of pounds 100 a day to do so. There
is also disagreement about the number of firefight ers needed to operate
vehicles after a chemical attack.

Outlining how the exercise will work, Nick Raynsford, the minister for London
and chairman of the emergency panel London Resilience, said: "London has faced
many challenges and threats in the 2,000 years of its history and not least in
the last 30 years. As we saw last week with the power failure in some parts of
the city, there are always new lessons to be learned."

The transport secretary, Alistair Darling, said the exercise would provide
valuable information. "Sunday's exercise is a sensible and practical step in the
fight against terrorism and allows us to test contingency plans."

Ken Livingstone, London's mayor and deputy chairman of London Resilience, said
the capital had long coped with the threat from terrorists. "We have had to be
vigilant, but we have also got on with our lives. Now we have to be prepared for
any eventuality and any emergency."

The exercise will begin at midday. Access to streets within a quarter of a mile
from Bank station will be restricted but the emergency operation itself will
take place in the immediate vicinity of the station in an area about the size of
a football pitch. About 700 people will be involved.

The disaster will unfold in stages. Bank was chosen because it is a deep
underground station and therefore replicates one of the more serious situations
the emergency services are likely to face.

The train will run from the Waterloo and City platform because that line is
closed on Sundays. All other trains on other lines will pass straight through
Bank and Monument, the station with which it has a direct link.

The initial responsibility for dealing with the atrocity will rest with the
train driver. He will have to warn those above ground that something has
happened on his train and start dealing with the stricken passengers.

The Metropolitan police will have overall control. Its officers and others from
the City of London force and British Transport police will immediately try to
secure the scene.

Mick Shaw of the London Fire Brigades Union denied the disputes about suits and
emergency vehicles would affect the exercise.

Links

ukresilience.info/contingencies/ exercise.htm Plans for Bank exercise

www.lhc.org.uk London Hazards Centre - safety forum for London


LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 5, 2003, Friday

LONDON TO RUN TERROR ATTACK REHEARSAL

BYLINE: CAHAL MILMO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 217 words


A TERRORIST attack will be simulated in London on Sunday to find out how
emergency services would cope with a chemical strike on the Tube.

Hundreds of police, firefighters and ambulance staff will be put through their
paces at Bank Underground station and a wide section of the Square Mile will be
sealed off.

The exercise, codenamed Osiris 2, will simulate a poison gas attack on a train
brought to a halt in a tunnel, with 60 police cadets posing as badly injured and
dying commuters. New equipment, including decontamination units and chemical
protection suits, will be used for the first time.

Nick Raynsford, the minister for London, said the exercise was part of a
programme of eight drills over the past two years in the response to the 11
September attacks. He said: "We have to be prepared for all new threats that
emerge. As we saw in the last week on the Tube with the power failure in some
parts of the city, there are always new lessons to be learnt." The general
public will not be involved, although University College Hospital will treat
"the wounded".

The Government said the exercise was not in response to any specific threat.

London Underground said lines other than the Waterloo & City running through
Bank would run as normal but would not stop at Bank.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               September 5, 2003

Terrorist attack simulation in London at weekend

BYLINE: Chris Smith

LENGTH: 263 words


Central London will be subjected to a simulated terrorist attack this weekend to
test the readiness of London's emergency services.

In the same week as both Met Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens and Home
Secretary David Blunkett have spoken of the likelihood of a terror attack on
London a major incident is to be rehearsed at Bank Tube station.

The so-called 'CBRN attack' - a scenario involving chemical biological
radiological or nuclear weapons - will test the responses from police ambulance
army and other public services to a catastrophe similar in scale to 1995's nerve
gas attack on the Tokyo underground.

In a statement about Sunday's simulation Transport Secretary Alistair Darling
underlines the seriousness of the current security situation.

We are living in difficult and unpredictable times and it is essential the
Government takes every reasonable step to deter terrorist activities in the UK
and to test our response, he said.

Sunday's exercise is a sensible and practical step in the fight against
terrorism and allows us to test contingency plans.

Home Secretary David Blunkett defended the Government's decision to carry out
the rehearsal in public rather than in private as usual.

I believe the British people will be reassured, rather than unnecessarily
alarmed that we are undertaking this work, Mr Blunkett said.

Our exercise programme leads the way in counter-terrorist planning and is one of
the best in the world; hijacks, chemical and biological attacks and nuclear
devices have featured in recent scenarios.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 06, 2003, Saturday

Trouble for the hero of ground zero Dick Grasso has overseen the NYSE through
terror attacks and a run of scandals, but this latest blow-up over a $140m
payout could be his undoing, writes Simon English

BYLINE: by Simon English

SECTION: Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1284 words

DICK Grasso was the financial world's Rudy Giuliani, an all-American hero who
survived the terror attacks of 9/11, then inspired a battered city with his
drive and defiance.

This week the chairman of the New York Stock Exchange is an embattled figure
caught in one of those whirlwinds that so often end in a resignation for "family
reasons".

It's not as if he needs to work, having just taken $140m ( pounds 85m) in
deferred pay, an amount so staggering that one board member reportedly thought
it was a typing error. Wall Street is not given to complaining about corporate
rewards, but some of the richest chins in America hit their mahogany desks over
this one.

The fuss over Dick's dollars began when it emerged in the Wall Street Journal
that he was paid $10m last year. This would be a handsome amount for the leader
of a Dow Jones company; for the head of a quasi-public body it is unprecedented.

Last week the NYSE announced it had renegotiated the chairman's contract to take
him into 2007, with a base salary of $1.4m and an annual bonus of at least $1m.
The statement casually noted that Grasso, 57, was also withdrawing $140m built
up in savings, retirement benefits and incentives.

Grasso's status is such that even critics of this deal are quick to say how good
he has been for New York. Television anchors asking if this isn't a rather
phenomenal amount of money always note that Grasso is "a great guy", as if that
has anything to do with anything.

Charles Elson, a corporate governance academic at the University of Delaware,
says: "I think he is a great guy too; I still think that is a lot of money.
Compensation should relate to the position you occupy; he is not head of an
investment bank. He's getting an entrepreneurial return, but he's not in an
entrepreneurial position."

William Donaldson, who gets paid $144,000 as chairman of the Securities &
Exchange Commission and who is also a former chairman of the NYSE, was said to
be outraged. He took the unusual step of making public a letter questioning the
way the exchange was run and demanded it explain, by next Tuesday, just how the
$140m was calculated.

Elson says: "Any time the head of the SEC sends a letter like that, it's bad.
Grasso has cause to be concerned, particularly because Donaldson knows the
exchange so well."

Bob Zito, executive vice-president at the NYSE, says: "I think Mr Donaldson has
done what he feels he has to do. It is entirely appropriate."

He points to the success the exchange has enjoyed since Grasso became chairman
in 1995, though he has worked there for 36 years in total, fending off
competition and increasing market share. It now has $1 billion in annual
revenues and profits of more than $50m.

"No one is denying that this is a lot of money, but no one is denying that Dick
has done a phenomenal job. He will be judged by what he has done over 36 years
at the exchange," says Zito.

It is true that the NYSE has been successful from a business standpoint, having
overhauled old technology to make it the market of choice for most American
investors, handling billions of dollars of share trades every day with few
glitches.

As an example, it handles 80pc of the trading in its own stocks, whereas Nasdaq
has just 16pc of the market for its shares. But there have been failings in
regulation and transparency.

The NYSE positioned itself as leading the fight against corporate sleaze. Grasso
was among the first to denounce the scoundrels at Enron and elsewhere, adding to
a public reputation enhanced by his success in getting the market back in
business a week after lower Manhattan was devastated by terrorists.

Talking of the need to restore investor confidence last summer, Grasso said
there was "a cancerous element" to American business that "has to be taken out".
He pledged: "There will be nothing less than total integrity."

Since then, the world's most important stock market has seen two directors
forced out due to fraud allegations and stumbled into controversy with alarming
regularity.

Citigroup chairman Sandy Weill had to withdraw from the NYSE board after
complaints that his company was at the centre of Wall Street malfeasance.
Jean-Marie Messier, the former and now discredited head of Vivendi Universal,
also quit, while Martha Stewart resigned as insider-trading charges clouded her
reputation.

The exchange seemed unable to appoint anyone whose integrity wasn't in question.
Now the NYSE is embroiled in an unseemly dispute with LaBranche & Co, a leading
dealer firm, as part of an investigation into dubious trades.

Robert Murphy, the LaBranche chief executive, abruptly resigned as vice-chairman
of the NYSE as the row intensified, adding to the general disarray.

Worst of all, the influential Council of Institutional Investors (CII) launched
a scathing attack on a stock exchange it regards as too cosy with Wall Street
banks.

The chief executives of the big banks are all on the board (until recently, some
were also on the compensation committee) giving them too much sway over the
NYSE, argues the CII.

It wasn't until this summer that the NYSE put in place corporate governance
reforms, banning its top executives from sitting on boards of listed companies.
Until then, Grasso was a director at Home Depot, a public company run by Ken
Langone, an old friend who is also on the board of the exchange.

Another example of the many apparent conflicts of interest is that the NYSE's
charitable arm often gives money to organisations promoted by board members.
This might be coincidental or innocent, but it looks bad at a time when
corporate America is trying to appear super-clean.

Some, seemingly including the SEC, now regard the NYSE as closer to the problem
than the solution. Last March, in a nod to the exchange, Donaldson noted: "If
you're going to set standards for other people, you've got to set standards for
yourself."

The SEC allows the NYSE to be self-policing, and how much statutory power it has
over the stock exchange is a murky area.

The SEC declined to comment on possible sanctions ahead of next Tuesday's
deadline, but one regulatory source said: "There is some peril because the $140m
is such an eye-opener. And there was no documentation or discussion of how they
got there.

"At a time when companies are being made to disclose more about everything,
including executive pay, it looks disingenuous. It flies in the face of greater
accountability."

One rumour doing the rounds is that the SEC is planning to force the NYSE to
ditch the rule that share orders in exchange-listed stocks have to be executed
at the best price. The electronic trading platforms that want to compete with
the NYSE say it usually has the best price only because it controls so much of
the trading.

Without the best price rule, the NYSE's near monopoly would be eroded,
undermining Grasso's legacy. Fitting revenge for the SEC perhaps.

One Wall Street executive (few will condemn Grasso on the record) said: "Is the
NYSE a business or a watchdog? If it's a watchdog and the chief executive sees
it as a business, is that right? Maybe Grasso is the most upstanding guy on the
planet and the $140m is defensible. It is hard to see how."

Over at the exchange, Bob Zito dismisses any notion that Grasso will resign,
saying: "No. He will leave in 2007." Any more scandals and Grasso may have less
choice in the matter than he expects. Family trouble is brewing.

The Grasso brasso

Savings $40m

Retirement benefits$52m

Incentives $48m

Total $140m

The NYSE is the world's largest market, listing 2,700 companies with a combined
market value of $14,800 billion.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 6, 2003

BA plans anti-missile defences on its jets;Airline takes drastic action over
fears of terrorist attacks at airports

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 336 words


BRITISH Airways is planning to install anti-missile technology on its planes.

The UK's biggest carrier is in talks with airline manufacturers about the
feasibility of such a scheme.

But the airline said it was "early days" for the project and much still needed
to be done.

A BA spokeswoman said: "We are talking to manufacturers to understand the
feasibility of deploying anti-missile systems on civilian aircraft.

"Where there is a terrorist risk, we believe the most effective preventative is
for the relevant authority to identify any likely launch site near airports."

The move follows warnings in recent months of specific terrorist attacks on UK
planes abroad.

All UK flights to Kenya were suspended in mid-May because of a terrorist threat,
but the ban was lifted this week when flights to Mombasa were cleared for
take-off again.

BA's flights to Saudi Arabia were also suspended on August 13 because of
heightened security concerns in the region.

Earlier this week, Saudi authorities seized a lorry load of anti-aircraft
missiles near the city of Jeddah, which had been smuggled from Yemen and were
destined for terrorists.

However, BA yesterday announced it was resuming flights to Saudi Arabia after
security was stepped up at Riyadh and Jeddah airports.

The London-Riyadh service resumed today and London-Jeddah flights begin again
tomorrow.

BA said the decision to restart flights followed "a thorough review of security
in and around Riyadh and Jeddah airports, in co-operation with the UK Department
for Transport and Saudi authorities".

Geoff Want, BA's director of security, said: "We are satisfied that levels of
security are appropriate for us to resume services.

"But we will keep the situation under close review.

"We will not fly to any destination unless we are satisfied it is safe to do
so."

The Foreign Office's travel advice for Britons in Saudi Arabia says "further
attacks against Western interests in Saudi Arabia remain likely".

LOAD-DATE: September 08, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TERROR THREAT: British Airways fears planes may be targeted

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 6, 2003

Comment & Analysis: This war on terrorism is bogus: The 9/11 attacks gave the US
an ideal pretext to use force to secure its global domination

BYLINE: Michael Meacher

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2306 words


Massive attention has now been given - and rightly so - to the reasons why
Britain went to war against Iraq. But far too little attention has focused on
why the US went to war, and that throws light on British motives too. The
conventional explanation is that after the Twin Towers were hit, retaliation
against al-Qaida bases in Afghanistan was a natural first step in launching a
global war against terrorism. Then, because Saddam Hussein was alleged by the US
and UK governments to retain weapons of mass destruction, the war could be
extended to Iraq as well. However this theory does not fit all the facts. The
truth may be a great deal murkier.

We now know that a blueprint for the creation of a global Pax Americana was
drawn up for Dick Cheney (now vice-president), Donald Rumsfeld (defence
secretary), Paul Wolfowitz (Rumsfeld's deputy), Jeb Bush (George Bush's younger
brother) and Lewis Libby (Cheney's chief of staff). The document, entitled
Rebuilding America's Defences, was written in September 2000 by the
neoconservative think tank, Project for the New American Century (PNAC).

The plan shows Bush's cabinet intended to take military control of the Gulf
region whether or not Saddam Hussein was in power. It says "while the unresolved
conflict with Iraq provides the immediate justification, the need for a
substantial American force presence in the Gulf transcends the issue of the
regime of Saddam Hussein."

The PNAC blueprint supports an earlier document attributed to Wolfowitz and
Libby which said the US must "discourage advanced industrial nations from
challenging our leadership or even aspiring to a larger regional or global
role". It refers to key allies such as the UK as "the most effective and
efficient means of exercising American global leadership". It describes
peacekeeping missions as "demanding American political leadership rather than
that of the UN". It says "even should Saddam pass from the scene", US bases in
Saudi Arabia and Kuwait will remain permanently. . . as "Iran may well prove as
large a threat to US interests as Iraq has". It spotlights China for "regime
change", saying "it is time to increase the presence of American forces in SE
Asia".

The document also calls for the creation of "US space forces" to dominate space,
and the total control of cyberspace to prevent "enemies" using the internet
against the US. It also hints that the US may consider developing biological
weapons "that can target specific genotypes (and) may transform biological
warfare from the realm of terror to a politically useful tool".

Finally - written a year before 9/11 - it pinpoints North Korea, Syria and Iran
as dangerous regimes, and says their existence justifies the creation of a
"worldwide command and control system". This is a blueprint for US world
domination. But before it is dismissed as an agenda for rightwing fantasists, it
is clear it provides a much better explanation of what actually happened before,
during and after 9/11 than the global war on terrorism thesis. This can be seen
in several ways.

First, it is clear the US authorities did little or nothing to pre-empt the
events of 9/11. It is known that at least 11 countries provided advance warning
to the US of the 9/11 attacks. Two senior Mossad experts were sent to Washington
in August 2001 to alert the CIA and FBI to a cell of 200 terrorists said to be
preparing a big operation (Daily Telegraph, September 16 2001). The list they
provided included the names of four of the 9/11 hijackers, none of whom was
arrested.

It had been known as early as 1996 that there were plans to hit Washington
targets with aeroplanes. Then in 1999 a US national intelligence council report
noted that "al-Qaida suicide bombers could crash-land an aircraft packed with
high explosives into the Pentagon, the headquarters of the CIA, or the White
House".

Fifteen of the 9/11 hijackers obtained their visas in Saudi Arabia. Michael
Springman, the former head of the American visa bureau in Jeddah, has stated
that since 1987 the CIA had been illicitly issuing visas to unqualified
applicants from the Middle East and bringing them to the US for training in
terrorism for the Afghan war in collaboration with Bin Laden (BBC, November 6
2001). It seems this operation continued after the Afghan war for other
purposes. It is also reported that five of the hijackers received training at
secure US military installations in the 1990s (Newsweek, September 15 2001).

Instructive leads prior to 9/11 were not followed up. French Moroccan flight
student Zacarias Moussaoui (now thought to be the 20th hijacker) was arrested in
August 2001 after an instructor reported he showed a suspicious interest in
learning how to steer large airliners. When US agents learned from French
intelligence he had radical Islamist ties, they sought a warrant to search his
computer, which contained clues to the September 11 mission (Times, November 3
2001). But they were turned down by the FBI. One agent wrote, a month before
9/11, that Moussaoui might be planning to crash into the Twin Towers (Newsweek,
May 20 2002).

All of this makes it all the more astonishing - on the war on terrorism
perspective - that there was such slow reaction on September 11 itself. The
first hijacking was suspected at not later than 8.20am, and the last hijacked
aircraft crashed in Pennsylvania at 10.06am. Not a single fighter plane was
scrambled to investigate from the US Andrews airforce base, just 10 miles from
Washington DC, until after the third plane had hit the Pentagon at 9.38 am. Why
not? There were standard FAA intercept procedures for hijacked aircraft before
9/11. Between September 2000 and June 2001 the US military launched fighter
aircraft on 67 occasions to chase suspicious aircraft (AP, August 13 2002). It
is a US legal requirement that once an aircraft has moved significantly off its
flight plan, fighter planes are sent up to investigate.

Was this inaction simply the result of key people disregarding, or being
ignorant of, the evidence? Or could US air security operations have been
deliberately stood down on September 11? If so, why, and on whose authority? The
former US federal crimes prosecutor, John Loftus, has said: "The information
provided by European intelligence services prior to 9/11 was so extensive that
it is no longer possible for either the CIA or FBI to assert a defence of
incompetence."

Nor is the US response after 9/11 any better. No serious attempt has ever been
made to catch Bin Laden. In late September and early October 2001, leaders of
Pakistan's two Islamist parties negotiated Bin Laden's extradition to Pakistan
to stand trial for 9/11. However, a US official said, significantly, that
"casting our objectives too narrowly" risked "a premature collapse of the
international effort if by some lucky chance Mr Bin Laden was captured". The US
chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, General Myers, went so far as to say that
"the goal has never been to get Bin Laden" (AP, April 5 2002). The
whistleblowing FBI agent Robert Wright told ABC News (December 19 2002) that FBI
headquarters wanted no arrests. And in November 2001 the US airforce complained
it had had al-Qaida and Taliban leaders in its sights as many as 10 times over
the previous six weeks, but had been unable to attack because they did not
receive permission quickly enough (Time Magazine, May 13 2002). None of this
assembled evidence, all of which comes from sources already in the public
domain, is compatible with the idea of a real, determined war on terrorism.

The catalogue of evidence does, however, fall into place when set against the
PNAC blueprint. From this it seems that the so-called "war on terrorism" is
being used largely as bogus cover for achieving wider US strategic geopolitical
objectives. Indeed Tony Blair himself hinted at this when he said to the Commons
liaison committee: "To be truthful about it, there was no way we could have got
the public consent to have suddenly launched a campaign on Afghanistan but for
what happened on September 11" (Times, July 17 2002). Similarly Rumsfeld was so
determined to obtain a rationale for an attack on Iraq that on 10 separate
occasions he asked the CIA to find evidence linking Iraq to 9/11; the CIA
repeatedly came back empty-handed (Time Magazine, May 13 2002).

In fact, 9/11 offered an extremely convenient pretext to put the PNAC plan into
action. The evidence again is quite clear that plans for military action against
Afghanistan and Iraq were in hand well before 9/11. A report prepared for the US
government from the Baker Institute of Public Policy stated in April 2001 that
"the US remains a prisoner of its energy dilemma. Iraq remains a destabilising
influence to. . . the flow of oil to international markets from the Middle
East". Submitted to Vice-President Cheney's energy task group, the report
recommended that because this was an unacceptable risk to the US, "military
intervention" was necessary (Sunday Herald, October 6 2002).

Similar evidence exists in regard to Afghanistan. The BBC reported (September 18
2001) that Niaz Niak, a former Pakistan foreign secretary, was told by senior
American officials at a meeting in Berlin in mid-July 2001 that "military action
against Afghanistan would go ahead by the middle of October". Until July 2001
the US government saw the Taliban regime as a source of stability in Central
Asia that would enable the construction of hydrocarbon pipelines from the oil
and gas fields in Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, through Afghanistan and
Pakistan, to the Indian Ocean. But, confronted with the Taliban's refusal to
accept US conditions, the US representatives told them "either you accept our
offer of a carpet of gold, or we bury you under a carpet of bombs" (Inter Press
Service, November 15 2001).

Given this background, it is not surprising that some have seen the US failure
to avert the 9/11 attacks as creating an invaluable pretext for attacking
Afghanistan in a war that had clearly already been well planned in advance.
There is a possible precedent for this. The US national archives reveal that
President Roosevelt used exactly this approach in relation to Pearl Harbor on
December 7 1941. Some advance warning of the attacks was received, but the
information never reached the US fleet. The ensuing national outrage persuaded a
reluctant US public to join the second world war. Similarly the PNAC blueprint
of September 2000 states that the process of transforming the US into
"tomorrow's dominant force" is likely to be a long one in the absence of "some
catastrophic and catalyzing event - like a new Pearl Harbor". The 9/11 attacks
allowed the US to press the "go" button for a strategy in accordance with the
PNAC agenda which it would otherwise have been politically impossible to
implement.

The overriding motivation for this political smokescreen is that the US and the
UK are beginning to run out of secure hydrocarbon energy supplies. By 2010 the
Muslim world will control as much as 60% of the world's oil production and, even
more importantly, 95% of remaining global oil export capacity. As demand is
increasing, so supply is decreasing, continually since the 1960s.

This is leading to increasing dependence on foreign oil supplies for both the US
and the UK. The US, which in 1990 produced domestically 57% of its total energy
demand, is predicted to produce only 39% of its needs by 2010. A DTI minister
has admitted that the UK could be facing "severe" gas shortages by 2005. The UK
government has confirmed that 70% of our electricity will come from gas by 2020,
and 90% of that will be imported. In that context it should be noted that Iraq
has 110 trillion cubic feet of gas reserves in addition to its oil.

A report from the commission on America's national interests in July 2000 noted
that the most promising new source of world supplies was the Caspian region, and
this would relieve US dependence on Saudi Arabia. To diversify supply routes
from the Caspian, one pipeline would run westward via Azerbaijan and Georgia to
the Turkish port of Ceyhan. Another would extend eastwards through Afghanistan
and Pakistan and terminate near the Indian border. This would rescue Enron's
beleaguered power plant at Dabhol on India's west coast, in which Enron had sunk
Dollars 3bn investment and whose economic survival was dependent on access to
cheap gas.

Nor has the UK been disinterested in this scramble for the remaining world
supplies of hydrocarbons, and this may partly explain British participation in
US military actions. Lord Browne, chief executive of BP, warned Washington not
to carve up Iraq for its own oil companies in the aftermath of war (Guardian,
October 30 2002). And when a British foreign minister met Gadaffi in his desert
tent in August 2002, it was said that "the UK does not want to lose out to other
European nations already jostling for advantage when it comes to potentially
lucrative oil contracts" with Libya (BBC Online, August 10 2002).

The conclusion of all this analysis must surely be that the "global war on
terrorism" has the hallmarks of a political myth propagated to pave the way for
a wholly different agenda - the US goal of world hegemony, built around securing
by force command over the oil supplies required to drive the whole project. Is
collusion in this myth and junior participation in this project really a proper
aspiration for British foreign policy? If there was ever need to justify a more
objective British stance, driven by our own independent goals, this whole
depressing saga surely provides all the evidence needed for a radical change of
course.

Michael Meacher MP was environment minister from May 1997 to June 2003

meacherm@parliament.uk


LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                               September 6, 2003

City 'Open To Terror Attack'

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 237 words


Newark MP Patrick Mercer, the Conservative spokesman on national security and
anti-terrorism, says tomorrow's massive security exercise to be staged at Bank
station is just a sham for the media.  The exercise will simulate a chemical or
biological attack by terrorists.

But Mr Mercer said it was just an exhibition for the Press, and claimed that it
was "appalling" that no exercise had taken place in other major cities at risk
from terrorism, like Nottingham.

The former Commanding Officer of the Sherwood Foresters is making a four-day
visit to Washington and New York next week to inspect security measures and
procedures there.

And he claims that, as the second anniversary of September 11 approaches, the
United States is far ahead of Britain in measures being taken.

"There is simply no comparison between the States and Britain as regards
security," he said.

"There is almost nothing tangible that is being done here. We are simply told
that in the event of a large bomb to get out of buildings. But if a chemical
attack occurs, you should stay inside.

"The lack of coordination in our system causes panic.

"The Bank tube station homeland security exercise is essentially a
media-friendly ploy to coincide with the anniversary of September 11, rather
than having any serious security value.

"We must drastically improve our security measures, and that includes in cities
like Nottingham as well as London."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2003 Nottingham Evening Post

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                               September 6, 2003

Raider's terror attack on post office

SOURCE: Yorkshire Evening Post

LENGTH: 170 words


BY PAUL ROBINSON



POLICE are hunting a sledgehammer-wielding raider who held up a post office in
Leeds.

The masked robber stormed into Meanwood Post Office at about 10am on Thursday
and demanded money from a member of staff.

A quantity of cash was handed over and the man then fled with two accomplices
who had been waiting outside the shop, which is on Meanwood Road.

Four staff and two customers who were in the store are said to have been shaken
by their experience but otherwise unhurt.

Balaclavas

The robbers made their escape in a burgundy Ford Focus that was later found
abandoned in Potternewton Crescent.

The car had been reported stolen from the Chapeltown area on August 25.

Police say the raiders may have been coated with red or orange dye released by a
security device in one of the cash bags they took.

The man who entered the shop is described as about 5ft 10in tall and was wearing
a beige top and beige jeans.

All three members of the gang were wearing balaclavas.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           September 7, 2003, Sunday

FOCUS: 9/11: TWO YEARS AFTER THE ATTACKS, HAS THE WAR ON TERROR MADE THE WORLD A
SAFER PLACE?;
 PRESIDENT BUSH SAYS THE WAR IS BEING WON, BUT DOES THE PICTURE

BYLINE: PAUL ROGERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1695 words


Since the destruction of the World Trade Centre and the attack on the Pentagon
two years ago, there have been no major terrorist incidents in the United
States. There were the anthrax attacks and a brief scare about radiological
weapons, but the US as a whole has escaped further atrocities. Some would argue
that this means the "war on terror", proclaimed by President Bush, is being won,
even though there are repeated warnings of attacks in the US and the UK as well
as civil defence exercises such as today's on the London Underground

From a global perspective, however, the picture is very different. The recent
increase in violence and insecurity in Iraq, continuing unrest and insurgency
inAfghanistan and the global activities of al-Qa'ida and its associates all
point to a "war on terror" that is hardly being won.

Since 9/11, some intended attacks on Western interests have been intercepted,
but many successful attacks have been carried out across the world, including
inCasablanca, Riyadh, Karachi, Islamabad, Mombasa, Yemen and Bali. These have
killed or injured well over 1,000 people, and there have also been numerous bomb
attacks in the Philippines, substantial paramilitary actions by Chechen rebels
and continuing violence in Israel/Palestine including repeated Israeli
assassination attacks and Palestinian suicide bombs.

Al-Qa'ida and its associates are heavily involved in most of the actions
againstWestern interests and their level of activity since 9/11 has actually
been higher than in the previous two years. More generally, there has developed
a degree of anti-Americanism across much of the Arab world and beyond that
greatly limits the support for Bush's counter-terror strategy.

That strategy has already included two costly wars. In Afghanistan, close to
3,000 civilians died, together with many thousands of military. In Iraq, both
figures are much higher - up to 7,000 civilians killed in just three weeks of
war and as many as twice that number of military. In both wars serious injuries
are numbered in thetens of thousands.

Hamid Karzai's government in Kabul struggles on against considerable odds and
the International Security Assistance Force (Isaf) has helped to produce a more
stable environment in Kabul, but elsewhere in Afghanistan the warlords remain
incontrol, opium production has increased and development projects are
continually hindered. Natomay now be running Isaf, but the US repeatedly blocks
any attempts to extend it beyond Kabul, while 10,000 of its own troops remain
engaged in a guerrilla war with the Taliban.

The problem in Iraq is already far worse. US war deaths may be small, but
serious injuries are very high with 1,425 casualties already evacuated back to
the US, most of them injured since Bush's famous "end of war" declaration on 1
May. Even more remarkable is that 4,500 more troops have been sent home through
physical or mental illness.

A bitter war is now developing, focused mainly on supporters of the old regime
but likely to bring in militants from many other countries. President Bush
claimed from the start that Iraq was a focus for terrorism - a claim for which
there was little supporting evidence. But it is now turning out to be a
self-fulfilling prophecy.No longer will militants have to attempt attacks in the
US, the Americans have come to them, giving them 140,000 targets in the heart of
the Arab world.

The Taliban may have been defeated in Afghanistan and Saddam has been ousted in
Iraq, but both countries remain deeply unstable and the US and its partners
havekilled or injured tens of thousands of civilians in the process. Meanwhile,
al-Qa'ida and its associates remain highly active and have little difficulty in
renewing their leaderships and gaining new recruits.

There is also a deepening antipathy to the West stemming from widening
socio-economic divisions and marginalisation that readily forms a basis for the
development of radical movements, even leading to rebellions and insurgencies.
Many see Bush's war on terror more as an instrument of control than anything
else.

Healing such divisions and undercutting the support for paramilitary groups
willneed specific action such as greatly enhanced security and assistance for
Afghanistan as well as the replacement of the current Iraq occupation with a
UN-mediated move to internal democratic government. Even more important will be
sustained action to transform prospects for sustainable development. Without
such change, there is little prospect of winning any war on terror and a much
greater prospect of losing it.

Paul Rogers is Professor of Peace Studies, Bradford University. His report The
"War on Terror": two years on' is published by Oxford Research Group on Tuesday

Overleaf, the British victims

1

Date 22 September 2001

Place American Airlines flight from Paris to Boston

What happened Briton Richard Reid prevented by passengers from igniting his
shoelined with explosives

Casualties 0

Who was responsible Reid, 29, has associated with British Muslim militants and
was a former member of al-Qa'ida Later sentenced to life imprisonment by a
Boston court

Date 17 March 2002

Place Islamabad, Pakistan

What happened Two attackers enter a Christian church in a heavily guarded
diplomatic compound. The men throw grenades at the worshippers before escaping

Casualties Five die including the wife and daughter of a US diplomat, 46 are
injured

Who was responsible Believed to be Islamic militants

Date 11 April 2002

Place Tunisia

What happened A truck packed with explosives is driven by a suicide bomber into
a synagogue full of tourists

Casualties 21 die, most of them German

Who was responsible The bomber is named as Tunisian Nizar Nawar, 24. Tunisian
authorities insist he acted alone, but al-Qa'ida claims responsibility

Date 8 May 2002

Place Karachi, Pakistan

What happened Suicide bomb explodes on a Pakistani navy bus outside the
Sheraton, carrying French engineers

Casualties 14 killed, including 11 French defence engineers, and 34 injured

Who was responsible Pakistani militant group Jaish-I-Muhammad is blamed and
suspected of links to al-Qa'ida

Date 6 October 2002

Place Yemen

What happened Suicide bomber attacks French oil tanker, the Limburg, spilling
90,000 barrels of oil

Casualties One crewman is killed

Who was responsible Al-Qa'ida claims responsibility and one of its operatives,
Mohsen al-Fadhli, is arrested

Date 12 October 2002

Place Bali

What happened Explosions destroy Sari Club and Paddy's bar

Casualties 202 die, mainly Western tourists including many Australians and
Americans and 33 Britons

Who was responsible Jemaah Islamiya blamed for the attack, and suspected of
links to al-Qa'ida.  Laughing bomber' Amrozi bin Nurhasyim sentenced to death

Date 23 October 2002

Place Moscow

What happened 50 Chechen rebels, including female suicide bombers, take 700
hostages at theatre. Siege ends when troops storm theatre after disarming
rebelswith gas

Casualties 129 die from effects of the gas, including all rebels

Who was responsible Group instructed by Movsar Barayev, leader of ruthless
Islamic Regiment of Chechen Fighters

Date 28 November 2002

Place Mombasa, Kenya

What happened Suicide bombers drive into Israeli-owned hotel. Twin missiles
launched at Israeli jet carrying 272 passengers shortly after take-off, but
theyexplode in mid-air

Casualties 15 die of car bomb, 80 injured - mainly Kenyans

Who was responsible Beirut-based group Army of Palestine claims responsibility,
suspected of links with al-Qa'ida

Date 12 May 2003

Place Riyadh, Saudi Arabia

What happened Four cars full of explosives are driven into expatriate housing
compounds

Casualties 34 are killed including two Britons and seven Americans. More than
200 are wounded

Who was responsible Ali Abdul Rachman Gamdi and Abu Bakr al Azdi, a senior
al-Qa'ida operative, are arrested

Date 16 May 2003

Place Casablanca, Morocco

What happened 14 suicide bombers set off explosions at Jewish centre, Spanish
restaurant and Belgian consulate

Casualties 45 killed, over 100 injured. 12 bombers die in attack

Who was responsible Surviving bombers, Mohammed Omari and Rachid Jalil,
sentenced to death with two other Salafist Jihad operatives; 83 members receive
convictions

Date 8 June 2003

Place Kabul, Afghanistan

What happened Car bomb explodes in central Kabul.

Casualties Four German peacekeepers are killed, more than 30 wounded

Who was responsible Taliban guerrillas are blamed for the attack

Date 6 July 2003

Place Moscow

What happened Rock concert targeted by two female suicide bombers, stopped at
entrance where bombs detonate.

Casualties 16 die and over 60 are injured

Who was responsible Chechen warlord Shamil Basayev, believed to have links with
al-Qa'ida. His motive was to disrupt Kremlin-sponsored presidential elections
inChechnya

Date 20 August 2003

Place Baghdad

What happened A suicide bomber drives a truckload of explosives into the UN
headquarters

Casualties 24 are killed including Sergio Vieira de Mello, UN High Commissioner
for Human Rights and Special Representative in Iraq, and a British woman

Who was responsible Saddam loyalists are suspected

Date 25 August 2003

Place Bombay

What happened Twin car bombs explode in the busy commercial district of Bombay,
by the central market and Gateway of India monument

Casualties 52 are killed and more than 150 injured

Who was responsible The Student Islamic Movement of India and Lashkar- e-Taiba,
a Pakistan-based insurgent group, are thought to have worked together on the
attack

Date 29 August 2003

Place Najaf, Iraq

What happened A powerful car bomb explodes outside the entrance to the Imam Ali
mosque during worship

Casualties 80 killed, including Shia cleric Ayatollah Baqr-al Hakim, who was
collaborating with coalition forces

Who was responsible Supporters of Hakim accuse Saddam loyalists, though other
groups also under suspicion

Research by Sophie Morris

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The News of the World

                               September 7, 2003

CHERIE 'ACID' ATTACK MANIAC TESTED TERROR TACTICS ON HIS TEACHER

BYLINE: James Mulholland

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 715 words


    HE SENT 'POISON' AND EVIL LETTERS

    THE tartan terrorist who tried to poison Cherie Blair practised his evil
tactics on his old primary school headteacher.

    Evil teenager Paul Smith sent a packet of sweets to Avril Davie claiming
they were laced with rat poison.

    The 17-year-old nut had nursed a grudge against the teacher after a series
of rows at Knoxland Primary School in Dumbarton.

    Tests later showed the sweets weren't poisoned but cops believe Smith used
the fear factor as a deliberate tactic.

    The Scottish National Liberation Army member then launched a sinister
campaign in a bid to stop British rule in Scotland -a crusade that culminated in
the 'acid' attack on Prime Minister's wife Cherie Blair.

    That move was only foiled after News of the World received a tip-off and
alerted the cops.

    A police insider said: "He is a very nasty piece of work.

    "He used the threats against Mrs Davie to perfect what he was going to do
around the country."

    Cunning Smith formed the terror plan after a shocking hate campaign against
terrified Avril in May 2001.

    Ignore

    He was in the fourth year at Dumbarton Academy but had been nursing a grudge
against Avril since leaving primary school five years earlier.

    A friend of the twisted teen said: "He thought he got a really hard time off
her.

    "He kept on talking about how he was going to get his own back but we didn't
think he would resort to this."

    As well as the sweets, Smith also sent a string of anonymous letters
threatening to kill Avril, and made a series of crank calls in which staff were
warned there was a bomb in the school grounds.

    One parent said: "We thought it was the work of somebody mentally ill."

    The malicious teenager then turned his sights on battling British rule in
Scotland, during which he:

    SENT packages to the Home Office and other Government departments in August
2001 which he claimed contained deadly anthrax and ricin, and POSTED similar
packages to St Andrews University -where Prince William was beginning his degree
course -two months later, along with a note which read: 'Down with the English
Prince.'

    Tests later revealed that Smith, pictured right, hadn't filled the packages
full of deadly bugs.

    But the police insider said: "Smith's speciality appeared to be spreading
panic among people.

    "With the aftermath of September 11, he knew people would be stressed out
with the threat of bio-terrorism.

    "He capitalised on that fear."

    His campaign climaxed in February last year when Smith DID disguise deadly
caustic soda as aromatherapy oils in parcels sent to Cherie Blair and
Kincardineshire Liberal Democrat MSP Mike Rumbles.

    But News of the World reporter David Leslie contacted Scotland Yard's
anti-terrorist squad after receiving a tip-off about the plan.

    Smith's package was intercepted and he was arrested.

    Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Steven said at the time: "I would
like to thank the News of the World. Their swift action allowed my officers to
issue a warning to the public."

    The full shocking story was only revealed after Smith appeared at the High
Court in Glasgow on Friday where he was due to face a charge of harassing Avril.

    But that was dropped after he agreed to plead guilty to sending poisonous
packages to Mrs Blair and Margaret Ashcroft, a researcher for English-born MSP
Mike Rumbles.

    He also admitted sending packages to Prince William and various Government
departments. Smith will be sentenced in October.

    Another SNLA member -ex-British soldier Adam Busby -could now face
extradition from Dublin to face tartan terror charges.

    Busby, 52, fled to Ireland in the 1980s after an SNLA terror campaign.

    Cops believe he was the brains behind Smith's campaign of fear.

    Now Lord Advocate Colin Boyd is reviewing a security service report before
deciding whether to ask the Irish courts to extradite Busby.

    Busby said: "I don't know anything about this. I am unaware of anybody
called Paul Smith."

    But SNLA leaders last night warned of a new terror offensive against British
targets.

    A source said: "This is just the start of it. We will be sending similar
packages to other people associated with British rule in Scotland.

    "We know what we are doing."


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 7, 2003

FOCUS BOOKLET ON SALE AT WATERLOO LISTS TIMES AND PLACES FOR POTENTIAL MISSILE
ATTACK; WHERE CAN TERRORISTS FIND A TARGET? IN A GUIDE FOR NUCLEAR
TRAINSPOTTERS!

BYLINE: By Hilary Douglas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  11

LENGTH: 1022 words


TRAINS carrying deadly nuclear material are wide open to attack by terrorists
because their exact routes are published in a booklet freely available in shops.

I was able to track the movements of a train carrying radioactive waste from
Sizewell power station in Suffolk to the Sellafield reprocessing plant in
Cumbria.

The booklet, Freightmaster, listed the route of the train - clearly marked
"nuclear flask" - and when it would arrive at Willesden junction in London.
Astonishingly, the timetable was correct to the minute. I watched from a bridge
as the potentially lethal cargo travelled below.

If I was a terrorist and was carrying a hand-held missile launcher I could
easily have fired at the slowmoving train, potentially unleashing a cloud of
plutonium over London, killing thousands of people and creating a nuclear
wasteland.

Our investigation last night ignited a furious political debate with calls for
copies of the trainspotters' booklet to be withdrawn immediately and demands
that the same information be taken off an Internet site.

The French government last week imposed a news blackout on movements of its
nuclear cargoes after uncovering a plot to ambush a convoy of lorries carrying
plutonium.

A Frenchman on trial in Morocco for recruiting and training suicide bombers
confessed to targeting the Cap de la Hague reprocessing centre near Cherbourg.
The centre, which is close to the Channel Islands, regularly sends powdered
plutonium by road to Belgium, Holland and Germany.

Pierre Robert, 31, of St Etienne, converted to Islam after living for a while in
Turkey. He trained in Afghanistan under Osama Bin Laden and then recruited
fellow Muslim fanatics of Turkish origin.

His gang was responsible for a series of bomb attacks in Casablanca in May which
killed 44 people.

The revelations emerged as experts today began practising how to deal with a
chemical or nuclear attack on a London Underground train at Bank station. The
exercise follows warnings that the capital must prepare for an imminent Al Qaeda
suicide strike. Meanwhile, in America, security chiefs named 20 suspected
members of Al Qaeda's south-east Asia offshoot, Jemaah Islamiah, ordering a
freeze on their assets.

And as the world prepares for the second anniversary of the September 11
attacks, the Department of Homeland Security issued a warning that Al Qaeda is
working on plans to hijack airliners that fly over the US from Canada.

The trainspotters' booklet containing what should be secret information costs
GBP 11.75, and copies were on sale at a book shop near London's Waterloo station
last week.

Although the nuclear flasks are heavily reinforced, there are fears that they
would be vulnerable if a missile hit the lid area.

Patrick van den Bulck, of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, said: "A direct
hit on the lid would result in the release of radioactivity which would make the
area uninhabitable for hundreds if not thousands of years.

"While the metal - forged steel - is very thick and robust, it is not capable of
sustaining a direct hit from a missile carrying even conventional explosive.
This would be enough to break the seal in the lid, the most vulnerable area of
the container.

"While it is not possible for nuclear waste to explode, it is possible that it
could catch fire, as the nuclear rods have to be transported in water to keep
them cool."

Nuclear researcher Dr Rachel Western said: "Publishing timetables of these
trains is tantamount to providing a terrorist guide. The nuclear industry's
pleas that it protects us against terrorism are a joke. The decision to continue
to transport nuclear waste overland is a nonsense - the US and Sweden have
already halted this practice."

The decision to allow freight times to be published was criticised by Tory
spokesman Patrick Mercer. The timetables even show which of the trains are held
in sidings in central London (usually Willesden) until more carriages arrive to
continue their journey to Sellafield.

Mr Mercer said: "The availability of this sort of information is just
extraordinary and underlines my fears about the Government's complacency in the
whole area of national security. This sort of information must be taken off the
shelves at once.

To give away what amounts to highly sensitive information is reckless bordering
on the scandalously stupid."

A report by a London Assembly committee has already highlighted the potential
catastrophe of a derailment. Chairman Darren Johnson said: "We weren't looking
specifically at a terrorist attack, but the inquiry came to the conclusion that
any radiation leak would have a horrendous impact on at least 300,000 people,
who would be seriously hurt."

Nuclear waste travels through several London boroughs, including Battersea.
Stop-over sites include Tonbridge in Kent, Warrington in Cheshire, and Carnforth
in Lancashire. Most of the flasks weigh 47 tons and are fitted with
shock-absorbing collars. Their steel lids are each secured with 16 huge bolts
and the outer surfaces undergo tests for contamination each time they leave a
power station.

But it is understood that anti-tank missiles fired from up to half a mile away
would be able to penetrate the 3ft thick steel skin.

Terrorism expert David Capitanchik, of Robert Gordon University, Aberdeen, said:
"An armour-piercing missile would do a lot of damage and could cause carnage if
accurate. All the intelligence points to the fact that a terrorist attack on
London is now inevitable. Al Qaeda has become stronger as have its related
groups.

It is actively recruiting in Britain. But people here have not taken it
seriously. The trains carrying nuclear waste should be disguised so that they
are not so easily recognisable."

A spokesman for Freightmaster said: "We have no intention of removing the
section on the movement of nuclear waste. Following September 11, we called the
Home Office who said it had no objection to us publishing, since the information
is historical. The nuclear waste train companies do vary the times."

But not on the day we checked.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           September 7, 2003, Sunday

TWO YEARS AFTER 9/11..BUT VICTIMS CRIES HEARD AGAIN AS SICK HAWKERS SELL TAPES
OF GROUND ZERO SCREAMS;
 FIREFIGHTERS TRAUMA AS THEY HAVE TO RE-LIVE TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: LISA O'CONNOR IN NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 648 words

HIGHLIGHT: EXHAUSTED: Battered firemen rest; BRAVERY: Mike Kehoe fights his way
into the building; SICK: A hawker sells mementos - murderabilia - of the 9/11
attack; SORROW: Firemen with the body of NYFD Chaplain Mychal Judge


IT'S BEEN two years since terrorists destroyed the World Trade Center, but it
feels just like yesterday for many of the Irish firemen who survived the attack
on New York.

As hundreds of thousands of mourners prepare to flock to downtown Manhattan to
mark Thursday's second anniversary of the tragedy, many of the heroes who
survived are still receiving counseling from a specially assembled team of Irish
psychiatrists.

Their recovery hasn't been helped by the sounds of screaming which continue to
echo through downtown New York on a daily basis.

The sounds do not represent another attack on New York though. Instead they are
the handiwork of ghoulish street vendors who are still raking in thousands of
dollars a day - selling audiotapes of the World Trade Center attack which they
play over loudspeakers.

The vendors are unlikely to be selling their T-shirts, World Trade Center mugs
and other so-called "murderabilia" when the second anniversary takes place this
Thursday.

They know that the colleagues of the the firefighters who lost their lives in
the outrage would probably lynch them if they did.

Of the 343 firemen who died, over half belonged to the department's Emerald
Society.

They were of Irish descent and a huge Irish presence is expected at Ground Zero
on Thursday.

Time may be a great healer, but it has been tough on the people left behind.

Irish American psychiatrist Kevin Kelly, who has been counselling the city's
surviving firemen, says: "This has been horrific and lasting. We've got guys
having nightmares about body parts."

Though many have made a recovery from the trauma, others have left their jobs
and some are still plagued by flashbacks.

Mr Kelly said: "For those who stayed, recovery has been excellent and we've seen
a surprising resilience."

Mr Kelly, who organised psychiatrists of Irish heritage from the Celtic Medical
Society in New York to voluntarily treat the firefighters, said: "The department
is heavily Irish.

"It became clear these guys were reluctant to talk to outsiders, but they might
be willing to talk to people with names such as Kelly."

So far nearly 6,000 have come in for counseling related to 9/11.

The fire department's director of counseling, Irishman Malachy Corrigan, said
some 125 members of the force have been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress
disorder (PTSD).

About 60 of them still can't fight fires because their symptoms are so severe.

Retirements have shot up since the attacks. Mr Corrigan said that instead of the
450 who would have been expected to retire in the 20 months since September 11,
over 2,000 have taken retirement.

He said: "Undoubtedly, some of the retirement is due to 9/11 stress," and added
that cases of alcoholism in the department have doubled in the two years.

To make matters worse, a heartbreaking new 1,800 page transcript, documenting
the words of emergency dispatchers, have been released to the public - just in
time for the anniversary of the Al Qaeda attacks.

Included in the $ 500 extracts are messages such as: "Another plane hit! Another
plane hit the building!" or "I've got like 18 passengers stuck on the 78th Sky
Lobby elevator. They're trying to get out. We need EMS over here!"

Port Authority Police Officer Julio Jorge, said of the disturb-ing material: "I
had to stop reading it... It was giving me flashbacks. Reading this makes me
remember what I really felt like.

"I hate it. I don't want to remember."

Meanwhile, relatives of the dead are still trying to get police to crack down on
the sale of sick souvenirs.

Rev Bill Minson of the Coalition of 911 Families has been fighting for Ground
Zero to be declared hallowed ground.

He said: "We respect the right of people to make a dollar but some things
transcend dollars."

Another man, Bruce DeCell, said of the tapes: "When you hear

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 8, 2003, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK IS TO BE SIMULATED IN NW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 144 words


A MASSIVEchemical strike is to be simulated in the North West as preparations
for a potential terrorist attack are stepped up across the country .

Dirty bomb decontamination units will be assembled on the streets of Liverpool
and Manchester as part of the cent repiece of a series of high-profile
counter-terr orism exercises this autumn.

It comes after London simulated its largest anti-terr orist exercise since
September 11, yesterday. A major chemical strike was re-enacted on the
Underground system in the heart of the capital's financial district, near Bank
station.

Cities like Liverpool and Newcastle also have underground train systems running
beneath their centres which could be targeted.

Firefighters in Merseyside are reported to have already begun training on how to
use decontamination units similar to those used in London.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 8, 2003, Monday

EMERGENCY SERVICES PRACTISE FOR ARMAGEDDON' OF TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 56 words


Medical staff in protective suits take part in the response to a simulated
terrorist attack at Bank Underground station in London yesterday. University
College Hospital treated victims', who went through a rigorous decontamination
process surrounded by police and hospital staff. Report, page 4 Sean
Dempsey/AFP/Getty Images

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      September 8, 2003, Monday Edition 1

City sealed off for role-play terror attack

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 292 words


   A simulated chemical attack on London yesterday gave a stark view of the
scenes the capital would face in the event of a terrorist strike.

As the fictitious chemical attack on the Underground took place in the financial
centre of the city, hundreds of emergency services officers in full protective
clothing appeared on the streets.

Decontamination units were set up on ground level and the immediate area sealed
off as scores of "casualties" were treated on the streets of the Square Mile.

The long-planned role-play was similar to the terrorist attack which hit the
Tokyo tube in 1995, when deadly sarin gas was released, killing 12 people,
leaving thousands seriously ill and bringing chaos to the streets of the
Japanese capital.

Nick Raynsford, Minister for Civil Resilience, said: "Our early view at the end
of the exercise is that the elements that we have planned to test have worked
well.

"There will always be room for improvement and we will certainly make full use
of the lessons learned to enhance London resilience."

The operation involved 500 officers from the three emergency services in an area
which houses The Bank of England, the London Stock Exchange, the official
residence of the Lord Mayor and where 350,000 people work during any given
week-day.

Transport secretary Alistair Darling said: "Today's exercise was about being as
prepared as we can be."

Mayor of London Ken Livingstone said: "Throughout the long IRA campaign, we
didn't allow it to make a great change to the way we lived in London, nor should
we do the same with this threat from al Qaida and its sympathisers."

He also confirmed reports that evacuation plans had been drawn up for the
capital.

"They plan for the very worst," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 8, 2003, Monday

LONDON TESTED IN 'TERROR ATTACK'

BYLINE: TOM PARRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 160 words

HIGHLIGHT: EMERGENCY: A green-suited 999 team; RED ALERT: Police officers at the
'disaster' yesterday


BRITAIN'S readiness for a nightmare chemical attack was tested yesterday.

Hundreds of emergency workers took part in a staged chemical assault at one of
London's busiest Tube stations.

In the UK's first large-scale drill since the September 11 atrocities nearly two
years ago, police had an opportunity to practise evacuating "victims".

Police cadets posed as chemical weapon casualties in a train stuck near Bank
station in the City.

They showed symptoms similar to victims of the Sarin terrorist gas attack in
Tokyo in 1995 and were treated as walking wounded in nearby roadside
decontamination units.

Meanwhile, paramedics and firefighters in green gas-resistant suits carried
13stone dummies on stretchers to the surface.

Transport Secretary Alistair Darling said: "We have to prepare against all sorts
of eventualities. I am afraid we live in a world where an attack on London
cannot be ruled out."

Voice of Mirror: Page 6

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 8, 2003, Monday

Long wait for help after mock terror attack

BYLINE: Adam Fresco

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 492 words


THE "victims" of a long-planned simulated chemical attack on the London
Underground yesterday had to wait almost half an hour before help arrived. And
it took three hours for the last of them to be brought to the surface.

Ken Knight, the Commissioner of the Fire Brigade, admitted that the emergency
services would have to look at ways to get to victims sooner.

The exercise at Bank station was designed to be as real as possible. But
firefighters, wearing new gas-tight clothing, had to haul 13-stone dummies to
the surface because the Health and Safety Executive would not allow them to
carry people.

Mr Knight said that firefighters had had to wait for decontamination units to be
set up before they could go down. He added: "One of the areas we will be looking
at is how we can deploy crews earlier on arrival to get earlier detection of
what is there. An exercise is the time to learn these issues and it is a success
because there are questions to be asked."

The alert was raised by the train driver at 11.48am as his passengers began to
collapse, and within minutes two British Transport Police officers arrived with
hand-held monitors testing the air above ground. Despite efforts to make the
scene realistic, the air of danger was heavily diluted by the scores of
personnel walking around without protective clothing and the lack of sirens or
urgency in the air. The surrounding streets had been closed for hours so the
usual throng of tourists and workers was absent.

Once kitted out in their new protective clothing the fire-brigade personnel had
to wait another ten minutes while decontamination units were set up around them
ready for victims.They said they had learnt from the 1995 sarin gas attack on
the Tokyo subway, which killed 12 people and injured thousands of others, when
rescue workers rushed in only to be overcome by the deadly chemical themselves.
But the extra ten minutes could mean a higher death toll and emergency planners
will be looking at ways to cut the time it took to get to the train.

Mr Knight said that they would see if the decontamination units could be set up
while his staff were already underground.

Because of the ban on carrying people, the police cadets, even the ones who were
meant to be severely injured, had to walk to the surface before hopping on to
new lightweight stretchers, while the walking wounded were taken through a
treadmill of decontamination units.

They first had their faces washed before being given tissues to blow their noses
and get rid of chemical droplets. The tissues and their clothes then went into a
sealed bag as they climbed into plastic orange smocks. The victims were then
taken through the series of decontamination chambers that had hurriedly been set
up in the street.

More than 500 emergency service personnel took part in the exercise, which was
meant to have gone ahead in March but was postponed because of the war in Iraq.


LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 8, 2003

So This Is How We'D React To Terror Attack On Capital

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 9 0809WESTDP405sothi

LENGTH: 566 words


Emergency workers wearing gas masks and protective suits were training yesterday
for the unthinkable, a terrorist attack on a crowded London underground train.
Part of London's financial district was sealed off as the mock attack involving
a deadly chemical agent turned the calm Sunday streets into something resembling
a disaster zone from a Hollywood blockbuster.

The nightmare scenario, designed to be as realistic as possible, closely
mirrored 1995's sarin gas attack on the Tokyo underground by the Aum Shrinrikyo
religious cult.

Yesterday's emergency drill involved was set up amid growing fears terrorists
could be planning a chemical attack in Britain.

In June, M15 chief Eliza Manningham-Buller warned it was only "a matter of time"
before an attack was launched on a Western city, with London a "realistic
target".

The drama began to unfold yesterday when an unknown chemical was released on a
busy underground train from Waterloo to Bank station, in the heart of the City
of London.

THE counter-terrorism exercise began at 11.48am when the train driver reported
the attack and stopped the train in a tunnel 50 yards short of Bank station.

About 60 police cadets played the part of terrified victims who were on board
the train when the mystery gas was unleashed.

A co-ordinated emergency services rescue plan swung into action with the first
of hundreds of police officers dressed in boiler suits arriving at the scene
within five minutes.

The first officers did not enter the station but began helping dozens of
wheezing, spluttering "casualties" who emerged dazed and confused from the
underground station.

Asked why emergency services personnel did not immediately go into the station,
a British Transport Police spokesman said: "That is what they did in Tokyo in
the sarin attack and they all died.

"They were here to determine the chemical risk and awaited the fire brigade to
wear chemical suits before entering the scene." Firefighters and paramedics in
gas-tight suits entered the Tube station at 12.26pm to recover casualties who
were helped to street level and decontaminated in special shower tents.

A leaflet was handed to every "casualty" outlining the 16-stage decontamination
process they would have to go through.

They were given knee-length orange plastic capes with hoods and began to undress
beneath the garment on the pavement.

They were handed wrist bands, socks and gloves, while their "contaminated"
clothes were put in plastic bags.

The area immediately surrounding Bank station was designated the so-called "Hot
Zone" and the decontamination units were set up in a surrounding "Warm Zone"
upwind of the centre of the site.

SIGNS reading "Decontamination Zone" were set up in the streets leading to Bank
station.

A number of large tents began to operate as mass decontamination centres, while
three smaller yellow tents were set up to decontaminate emergency services
crews.

The scene was eerily quiet, with only the occasional chatter from emergency
service radios and shouted instructions breaking the deathly silence.

Staff at University College Hospital, which closed during the operation, were
involved in the event.

The Minister for London Nick Raynsford said that the lessons learned in London
would be extended to every region of the country, which all had their own
contingency plans.


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Lancashire Evening Post

                               September 9, 2003

Homes attack terror

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post

LENGTH: 331 words


Residents told how they were left terrified when a man attacked their homes in
the early hours.

Neighbours on South Meadow Lane and Woods Green in Broadgate, Preston, were
awoken by the disturbance.

Several homes had windows smashed when objects were hurled through them.

The front doors of other houses were kicked.

Linda Taylor, 43, a domestic cleaner from South Meadow Lane, had a window
smashed in the disturbance.

She said: A ceramic pot was thrown on the floor right outside my house.

A man came back, picked up a piece of the ceramic pot and threw it through my
window. He was then trying to bash the front door in.

It was absolutely terrifying. I have never been as scared as that. It was really
traumatic.

A 31-year-old resident, who wished to remain anonymous, said: I got up and woke
my husband and my 15-year-old son.

We were scared that he was going to get into the house.

We had our front window put through by a two-and-a-half foot wooden log.

Nearly everyone around here has young children and it was terrifying.

A 34-year-old neighbour added: The man was shouting that he had a gun and that
we should call the bomb squad.

He was outside our home shouting that he was going to kick the door down.

It was very scary. I was terrified that he was going to get in and I had no idea
what he was going to do.

Police were called to the scene at around 2.30am on Thursday.

Neighbours reported seeing patrol cars, dogs and armed response units at the
scene.

Insp Kevin Otter from Preston Police said a man was seen running up and down the
street shouting and hitting out at homes.

He said police were called to the scene and the man ran off.

Insp Otter said: A search was carried out and a man was eventually found near
South Meadow Lane.

He did not have a gun and no firearms were involved.

Police said Kevin Neal Alderton, 42, of South London, has been charged with
causing criminal damage in connection with the incident.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 09, 2003

Peace activists attack 'war on terror';

BYLINE: by BOB GLANVILLE

SECTION:  Pg. 9

LENGTH: 393 words


PEACE campaigners warned yesterday of growing evidence that the US-led "war on
terror" was actually encouraging terrorist attacks around the world.

Activists insisted that warhungry US President George Bush would never defeat
terrorism by initiating a series of bloody conflicts across the Middle East.

The comments followed the release of a report for the Oxford Research Group,
which revealed that al-Qaida has grown in strength over the last two years.

The report by Bradford University Professor of Peace Studies Paul Rogers said
that more than 350 people have been killed in attacks linked to al-Qaida since
September 11 2001, with more than 1,000 injured.

The military efforts of the US and its allies had acted like a recruitment drive
for al-Qaida, rallying its efforts rather than crippling them, Professor Rogers
observed.

"The organisation and its associates have managed to plan and often undertake a
remarkable range of activities, with these collectively showing a capability
that exceeds that existing before the September 11 attacks, " he said.

"On this basis alone, it is difficult to accept any claim that the war on terror
is being won."

He criticised the US invasion of Afghanistan for leaving the country "further
away from stability than ever."

Professor Rogers slammed US use of "overwhelming force" in the fight against
terrorism, calling it "inappropriate and ineffective."

The current strategy will lead to "more intractable problems, " he added.

"By occupying Iraq, the United States has provided 140,000 targets - a very
powerful focus for future opposition, " he warned.

"Iraqis must be enabled to develop a democratic and independent state that may
well choose to distance itself from Washington, " he added.

CND chairwoman Kate Hudson agreed, calling for power to be transferred to the
people of Iraq "without delay."

"The war on Iraq has created a disaster for the people of that country, with the
failure to maintain services like water, health care, education and basic
security, " she added.

Stop the War Coalition chairman Andrew Murray observed that US foreign policy
was "nurturing the roots of al-Qaida rather than addressing the problems that
gave rise to it."

"There is no way in which the war on terrorism will achieve its first stated
objective, " he added.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004

GRAPHIC: JUST THE START? Over 350 people have been killed in attacks linked to
al-Qaida since September 11 2001.

               Copyright 2003 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               September 10, 2003

Victims Of Terror Attacks Remembered

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 131 words


Wreaths will be laid and a minute's silence held as Plymouth remembers those who
died in the terrorist attacks of September 11.  The short memorial service at
the Barbican's Mayflower Steps tomorrow will mark the second anniversary of the
Twin Towers terror strikes which shook America and the world.

Civic leaders and representatives from Plymouth's emergency services have been
invited to join the Lord Mayor Councillor David Stark to pay their respects.

The Remembrance Service, which will start at 1.40pm, will be officiated by the
Rev Prebendary Paul Hancock.

After a one minute silence, Cllr Stark will lay a wreath followed by officials
from Devon and Cornwall Constabulary, Devon Fire and Rescue Service, Westcountry
Ambulance and Plymouth Chamber of Commerce and Industry.


LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2003 Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                               September 11, 2003

Plans to prevent terrorist attacks

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 466 words


Special anti-terrorist measures have been brought to Aberdeen in the two years
since the September 11 attacks.  Emergency services in the city have access to
decontamination showers and have undergone chemical attack training.

Today, the man responsible for preparing the city for similar attacks revealed
what's been done over the last two years.

Superintendent Neil Murray is Grampian Police's Emergency Planning Officer and
has been helping prepare the city for major emergencies since 1998.

It's his duty to prepare appropriate responses to major incidents and
emergencies in the Grampian area, including offshore.

Speaking two years to the day since more than 3,000 people were killed in the
attacks on the World Trade Centre, Supt Murray stressed the North-east was no
more likely a target today than any other UK city.

He said: "There's nothing to indicate Aberdeen is at any greater risk of an
incident than other UK cities.

"The public should be reassured of this and it would be remiss of us not to say
so.

"I'm here to prepare for a range of major incidents and emergencies like Piper
Alpha and September 11-type incidents.

"On a daily basis I'm doing what I can to ensure the force is ready to deal with
emergencies and that involves working with the other blue-light services.

"As a force we exercise regularly to practice dealing with situations." In
March, a mock exercise was carried out in Aberdeen involving police, fire and
ambulance crews.

The planning exercise, based at Ardo House on South Deeside Road, called on
crews to react to a simulated chemical attack.

However, an operation on the scale of that seen in London last weekend hasn't
yet been tried in Aberdeen.

Mr Murray said: "The Government has invested a lot in preparations for terrorist
attacks.

"That includes providing decontamination equipment, showers, personal protective
suits for chemical-related incidents and special training.

"Grampian Police also have a number of existing specialised teams which have
been trained to deal with these incidents.

"My post was actually created in the context of the Cold War but has since come
to encompass other duties.

"In recent years there has, of course, been more of a focus on terrorism in
light of September 11." Despite intense preparations, the last two major
emergencies declared in Grampian were a result of the weather, rather than
terrorism.

Last November's flooding in Elgin caused chaos for commuters and left hundreds
of people homeless, while huge snowfalls in February this year left many people
stranded in their cars on the A90.

Mr Murray was also involved in the fuel crisis at the end of 2000, the Foot and
Mouth outbreak in 2001 and more recently preparations for incidents arising from
the Iraq war.


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2003 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 11, 2003

Out of the ashes: Thousands of people were left grieving by the September 11
terrorist attack on New York. On the second anniversary of the event that shook
the world, Gail Sheehy meets a couple who each lost a spouse - but found love
together

BYLINE: Gail Sheehy

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1425 words


For weeks after terrorists took down the World Trade Centre, Kevin Casey sneaked
into the site late at night and crawled around the smoking pile looking for some
sign that his wife, Kathy, was still alive. All he wanted to do, he said, was
lie down beside her and go to sleep, to stop the pain. Kevin continued to work
nights as a construction manager on the New York subway system. In the morning
he would go home to Middletown, New Jersey, a sprawling suburb 20 miles south of
what came to be known as Ground Zero. He would sit across from his 14-year-old
son, Matt, while they pushed takeaway food around the plate and spoke in
monosyllables. Kevin was at a loss over how to offer his son any physical or
emotional consolation. Although the new widower was only 42 and coached all the
ball sports, he moved like the walking dead.

One night in late October 2001, Kevin took his son to a charitable agency that
was offering a support group for adolescent boys who had lost a parent. There
were many such children in Middletown. Nearly 50 people from the area who had
commuted to the twin towers on that terrible day never came home. In the agency
waiting room, five stony-faced, suddenly single parents sat as far apart as
possible. Kevin hung back by the door with his baseball cap on backwards and two
days' growth of beard. He clearly was not looking to make small talk.

A green-eyed woman who was sitting on the bench said hello. Her face was open
and engaging. She introduced herself as Terry Fiorelli. She, too, had brought
her son. Terry told Kevin that she was relieved when she was notified that her
husband's body had been recovered, but that was the trigger for her son,
Stephen, to smash a hole in the living room wall with his fist.

Kevin and Terry began talking about their spouses, identifying them first by the
floor they had worked on in the towers. In no time, they were reminiscing about
their missing partners - in the present tense.

As the weeks went on, Kevin started shaving before he showed up on his son's
meeting nights. He took off the baseball cap and revealed his receding hairline.
He found himself looking forward to talking to the green-eyed woman. They had a
great deal in common. Fiorelli, a school secretary in her early 40s, also
coached recreational sports. He could tell that she was a remarkable mother, the
kind of person who took care of everyone else before she thought of herself.
Kevin got up the nerve to ask Terry for her home number. He didn't call.

A few months after 9/ll, the numbness began to wear off. On the day of his
wedding anniversary, which was also the anniversary of his father's death, Kevin
hit a wall. "I reached in my pocket and found a lumped-up piece of paper -
Terry's number," he remembers. "I called her up and we talked. And talked. Until
my portable phone died. I called her back on another phone and we went on
talking for hours. She was better than any therapist."

"You can't die with the dead," Terry told him. "You're still living, and you
have to think of what Kathy would want for you. She wouldn't want you to stay in
bed all day. Remember, you have a son."

They talked about their marriages; both had had loving marriages. They talked
about the folly of thinking there is always time. "My husband liked to work
weekends on the house," Terry confided in Kevin, "and I always wanted us to
spend a weekend together at a bed-and-breakfast. I never made the reservations.
The kids got older and it would have been easier to leave them. But I never made
the reservations. You take for granted that they are always going to be there.
We never spent that weekend alone."

They cried together about having made the same mistake.

One night when Kevin walked into the social agency, Terry was not sitting on the
bench. He found out that she was ill. He was deeply disappointed. It occurred to
him that she was the first real friend he had ever made. At the next session,
Terry arrived dressed in a silk overblouse and something leopardy - Kevin
couldn't recall the particulars of her outfit but for the first time he was
aware of the physical attraction. As Kevin describes it, "Our relationship went
the opposite way to normal. First we filled the married role; we'll get back to
the dating scene later!" The two single parents began doing for each other the
most mundane chores that only housebroken husbands and docile wives usually do
without complaint. If one was dealing with an adolescent tantrum, the other
would take care of the laundry or getting the car fixed. They depended on each
other.

They both had to struggle with guilt. Terry questioned herself: How can I have
feelings for this man and still miss my husband so much? Her answer came when
Kevin first kissed her. She closed her eyes and for once did not think of her
husband. She and Kevin were in the land of the living, and it was so very good
to feel the rumble of life again.

Shortly after the first anniversary of 9/ll, some of the widows and widowers
felt ready to take off their wedding rings. Terry decided that the time had come
to broach the subject of, "Uh, well, my close friendship with a man" with her
support group. It didn't take long for her peers to put two and two together.

"You're having sex!" one widow yelped.

Terry blushed and put her head in her hands while everyone else laughed
raucously. Most of the others murmured their approval. "Terry, we want you to be
happy," said one young 9/ll widow. "You're giving us all hope!"

"Once we started getting into it," Kevin says shyly, "we worried about what our
parents would think." Grief-stricken themselves, both sets of parents had
reasserted their protective roles. Kevin's mother would either fail to give him
messages from Terry, or, worse, dismiss the invasion with "Some lady called."

Terry had the same problem with her father. When Kevin called to see if she was
ready for their first date, her father answered the phone. Immediately, the
grilling began and it was worse than the grilling about her first date in high
school. "Who's this Kevin?" her father wanted to know. Terry explained how she
and Kevin had met in a waiting room while their two sons were attending a
support group.

"Does he drink?" was the first question.

"Dad, we're just going out for coffee."

"How do you know this guy isn't trying to take advantage of you? He might think
you're a rich widow. It's easy for a man to get that idea 'cause you have life
insurance. It's a trap."

"Trust me," Terry said firmly. "I'm not going to let anybody take advantage of
me."

She tried to assure him that Kevin was in just as much pain as she and her
father were. He had lost his wife.

"Dad, more than anything else, we're friends to each other."

She knew her father was devastated, so much so that he could not talk about what
had happened to his son-in-law. But as the months passed and the ganglia of
guilt spread through both families, Terry decided to risk inviting Kevin to her
father's house for lunch. It was a meeting of two territorial alpha males that
Kevin would not forget.

Terry's father is a 70-year-old lung cancer survivor. That is not what he looked
like to Kevin when the older man stomped in from working on the lawn to meet
this not-so-young man who was courting his widowed daughter. His ropey chest
stood out under his sweaty undershirt, his biceps twitched, his height almost
equalled Kevin's - and he is a tall, hefty Jersey guy. The two men shook hands.

Over lunch, the conversation focused exclusively on Terry's missing husband,
Steve. Afterwards, Terry's father expressed regrets. "I feel bad that we didn't
talk at all about Kathy, Kevin's wife. She's got to be just as important to him
as Stephen is to us."

That was the breakthrough. The second one was more physical. They worked
together to build Terry a bicycle room. The father barked orders and worked the
younger man mercilessly. Kevin passed the test. Their bond began.

The unique aspect of their relationship, the element that won over their
children and their parents, was the way the couple included their lost loves in
all they did and said. Kevin keeps a photograph of Terry's husband beside the
picture of his wife. Terry wears her husband's wedding ring on a chain around
her neck - "I keep him with me, always" - and next to it she wears a necklace
given to her by Kevin. "It's a blessing to find the love of your life just once
in a lifetime," says Terry. "I've been twice blessed."


LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                          September 11, 2003, Thursday

SOHAS ANYTHING REALLY CHANGED SINCE ... 9/11 9/11;
 AS AMERICA MARKS THE SECOND ANNIVERSARY OF THE TERRORIST ATTACKS ON

BYLINE: PADDY SHENNAN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 772 words


TWO years on ...and do YOU really feel any safer and more secure than you did on
the afternoon of September 11, 2001?

In homes and workplaces across the world, millions of people sat open-mouthed
and disbelieving as they watched those shocking, shattering TV pictures from New
York. Live.As it happened.

This was the world changing before our eyes. And it would never be able to
change back.

But if we felt helpless then, why should we feel any less helpless now?

The war on terror has now been going for 730 days, but the world picture looks
as bleak, depressing and dangerous as ever. Perhaps even more so.

Al Qaida leader Osama bin Laden still hasn't been found,dead or alive.

And he is still incurring wrath, courtesy of the latest video footage apparently
of him enjoying a carefree walk. Where was he walking? In some mountains,
somewhere or other. You can almost hear him laughing, as President George W.
Bush reaches for his map of the world -and starts looking for "mountains" in the
index.

An accompanying audio tape, attributed to bin Laden's deputy, Ayman al-Zawahri,
encouraged Iraqi fighters to "devour the Americans just like the lions their
prey. Bury them in the Iraqi graveyard."

The al Qaida tape,incidentally, promised more attacks. What we've seen so
far,apparently,have been mere skirmishes.

Since 9/11,our government has warned that an attack -or, at least, attempted
attack -by al Qaida terrorists is inevitable. It hasn't happened yet, but do we
really feel the threat has passed?

And do we feel comforted and reassured when Bush, or Tony Blair, utters
platitudes about fighting the good fight against terror? They must speak out and
denounce terrorism, of course they must. But who are they convincing?

Bush last night spoke of the "unprecedented, effective" measures that have been
taken in a bid to thwart the terror groups.

Unprecedented? Certainly. Effective? Perhaps that's tempting fate. And perhaps
that's totally wrong.

The World Trade Centre was reduced to rubble by a small group of
highly-motivated terrorists, so what's beyond a hard-core,hardline,
highly-organised terrorist group now? And what could shock us now?

If we're being honest (or,perhaps, honest and self-ish), the bottom line for the
man and woman in the Merseyside street is "How safe am I? What threat is there
to ME?"

Be honest . . . on 9/11,didn't you thank God that you lived in Mer-seyside? I
did. Be honest ...did you then -or at any time since -consider the possibility
of an attack being launched on a London landmark and think Thank God I live in
Merseyside'? I did. Be honest ...has your attitude to visiting London changed?
Mine has. And be honest ...despite seeing news items about anti-terror training
exercises in London and elsewhere,do you really feel our emergency services
would be able to cope with any eventuality? I don't. We have been
awakened,meanwhile, to the possibility of biological attacks.

Many millions of pounds have been spent on counter-terrorist measures,including
the purchase of mass decontamination equipment. And,in London, the Joint
Terrorism Assessment Centre has been set up -and it hasn't been set up because
there's nothing to assess.

September 11 proved that the extraordinary and the unimaginable can happen.
And,despite the vital intelligence and antiterrorist work being carried out on
our behalf, there remains a strong feeling that the threat hasn't goneaway.

What happened in America just two years ago today may no longer be on our lips
or on our minds from one week to the next, but the country -the world -is still
enveloped by uncertainty and unease.

And while George Bush and Tony Blair may have since flexed their military muscle
in Iraq(although Saddam Hussein,like bin Laden, apparently remains at large,
unlike,it seems,his "weapons of mass destruction"), do we really feel that's the
end of THAT particular war story?

And is the Bush-led war on terror going to stop with al Qaida and Iraq?It
isn't,is it?

Meanwhile,every other day, the world news seems to bring reports of another
suicide bombing -and/ or threats from various extremists of further,potentially
devastating terrorist action against US or British "interests." Which basically
means the lives of civilians.

So much has happened in the world since the afternoon of September 11, 2001 and
yet,in a way, so little has changed.

Many of us will still feel as utterly helpless as we did while watching the
carnage of that day.

And so many of us will still feel glad to be living in Merseyside.

But how safe do you really feel?

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 12, 2003, Friday

FAMILIES GATHER TO REMEMBER 85 BRITONS WHO DIED IN TERROR ATTACK ON TWIN TOWERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 286 words


FRIENDS and family of British victims of the September 11 attacks paid tribute
to those killed at a ceremony yesterday to mark the second anniversary of the
atrocity.

The bereaved stood in line to take turns to place single white long-stemmed
roses in a garden of remembrance.

Eighty- five flowers were placed on a memorial stone to represent Britons who
lost their lives,as well as victims from UK overseas territories and those with
dual nationalities.

Among those who carried out the tributes were a young girl and boy, both dressed
in black. Some family members were overcome with grief and comforted each other
as they returned to their seats.

Around 700 relatives and guests gathered in London at Grosvenor Square, which is
overlooked by the American Embassy and became the focus for an outpouring of
grief in the aftermath of the tragedy.

The Princess Royal placed a rose in the gardens -as did New York City fire
fighter James Kerwin, to commemorate emergency services workers who died in the
line of duty.

During the service,Anne told the congregation that the events of September 11,
2001,had left families with a feeling of "numbing, gut-wrenching shock".

The garden, which opened yesterday, is dedicated to the memory of those who died
when two hijacked passenger jets slammed into the twin towers of New York's
World Trade Center.

Three bronze plaques,listing the names of British victims.

Buried beneath the garden is a half- ton ne twisted metal girder recovered from
Ground Zero and preserved in resin.

More than 3,000 people died in strikes on the Twin Towers and the Pentagon and
after the hijacked United Flight 93 crashed into a field in Pennsylvania.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REMEMBRANCE: New York City fire fighter Jim Kerwin,above, attends the
service in Grosvenor Square; while,right, victims'family and friends gather at
Ground Zero

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 12, 2003

FURY AS MULLAHS GLOAT OVER WORLD'S WORST TERROR ATTACK; BOOT OUT BIN LADEN
MONSTERS IN BRITAIN

BYLINE: By Greg Swift

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  11

LENGTH: 834 words


MUSLIM fanatics brought shame to Britain yesterday as the world mourned the
September 11 dead.

While tears were shed on the second anniversary of the attacks on New York and
Washington, extremists enjoying the benefits of Britain's tolerance took the
opportunity to besmirch the memory of the fallen.

Instead of remorse, the leaders of the London-based Islamic group Al Muhajiroun
chose yesterday of all days to "honour" the 19 hijackers responsible for the
world's worst terrorist atrocity.

During an hour-long press conference called The Magnificent 19, Abu Omar, Anjem
Choudray, Abdul Saleem, Sulayman Keeler and Abu Uzayr served up a hate-filled
rant in which they warned of daily terrorist attacks in Britain. It was even
claimed that Tony Blair was a legitimate target for a Muslim assassin.

The extreme rhetoric led to calls for them to be booted out of Britain.

Shadow Home Affairs Secretary Oliver Letwin led the complaints, saying: "This is
a sickening abuse of the freedom of speech that this country provides to all
those who live in it. I hope that the Director of Public Prosecutions will
consider whether it constitutes illegal incitement."

Dr Mohammed Naseem, chairman of Birmingham's Central Mosque, accused the Home
Office of letting ordinary Muslims down by not taking a stronger stance.

"It has to do its part and intervene when people cause racial hatred, " he said.
"This group is bringing Islam a bad name and the Home Office is letting all
Muslims down by refusing to act when it openly incites violence."

Yesterday's press conference in a grubby warehouse in Tottenham, north London,
was a world away from the moving scenes of remembrance elsewhere in the capital.
At Grosvenor Square, home of the US embassy, relatives of the 67 Britons killed
in the September 11 attacks gathered to remember the day their lives were
changed for ever.

Each family laid a single white rose as Princess Anne opened a Memorial Garden,
on the walls of which are listed the names of those killed.

In New York, during an emotional ceremony at Ground Zero, children who lost
relatives in the World Trade Center read out the names of all the 2,792 victims
killed at the site.

Two hundred children who lost loved ones each read out about 14 names as
relatives laid flowers. For many, the emotion of the ceremony became too much
and some broke down as they performed their solemn task.

But there was no sympathy in Tottenham, where Abu Uzayr told the conference the
19 hijackers had sacrificed their lives for Allah. "Do not think these people
were 19 martyrs who just went out and did a terrorist act, " he said. "According
to us, it was a good deed in the eyes of Islam."

Abu Omar described the terrorists as "warriors" who had divided the world. "It
is clear that there can never be any peace with the US and British governments
until they withdraw their armies from Muslim lands, " he said.

He claimed the Magnificent 19 rallies planned for this weekend were not a
celebration but an "insight into the lives of 19 brave warriors who made the
ultimate sacrifice for Allah".

Despite receiving confirmation that the planned rallies in London, Birmingham,
Manchester and Leicester had been cancelled by the owners of the halls, Mr Omar
was undeterred.

"There is no doubt they shook the world on September 11 and they awoke in
Muslims the obligation for Jihad (war against non-Muslims) as shown by events in
Riyadh, Bali and Afghanistan, " he continued. "Jihad will spread like wildfire."
The group's leader Anjem Choudray, a solicitor, also gloated over the September
11 attacks. He said: "There is always a glimmer of hope - the crack of and
collapse of the Twin Towers on September 11.

"From the embers rose the obligation of Jihad and rose the Muslims worldwide and
I think it is a matter of time before we see the fall of George Bush and his
assistant Tony Blair.

"We suffer a September 11 on a daily basis. Do you have a minute's silence for
the Muslims who were killed in their countries?"

Abdul Saleem went on to warn Britain that it faced "daily" attacks from
terrorists.

"The reality is that the Mujahideen has certain demands. By you ignoring these
demands, events like September 11 are going to continue on a daily basis. If
they don't listen to these demands, the British public may be the target."

Speaking on ITV1's Tonight With Trevor McDonald, he said: "Tony Blair is a
legitimate target for Muslims in those countries his soldiers occupy."

Figures representing the majority of British Muslims condemned the press
conference. Khalid Mahmood, Labour MP for Birmingham Perry Barr, said it was an
affront to British Muslims.

"They are doing it deliberately to incite religious hatred against Muslims and
they should not be allowed to get away with it.

"They are inciting division between communities and I would say to any decent
people not to give them credence and to let people see how isolated they are."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Evening Gazette

                           September 15, 2003, Monday

PREGNANT WOMAN'S ARSON ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: RON LIVINGSTONE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 396 words


"i live on my own here and I'm six months pregnant. It's just really scary for
me"

- Nina Gabou

A MUM-TO-BE is suffering from shock and smoke inhalation after an arson attack
at her Stockton flat.

Nina Gabou, who is six months pregnant, was rushed to hospital by ambulance
after discovering the fire in her kitchen in Sydney Street at around 10pm last
night .

Lighted paper had been stuffed through a back window, setting her kitchen on
fire. She was alerted to the blaze by her smoke alarm.

The 26-year-old, who is attending hospital again this morning, spoke of her
horror at the attack.

"I live on my own here and I'm six months pregnant. It's just really scary for
me,"she said.

"It's not the first time something like this has happened to me. I've had my
front window smashed and someone threw a beer can through the kitchen window."

Firefighters from Stockton Fire Station attended the scene and called paramedics
to assist Miss Gabou.

Station Officer Ralph Nicholson from Stockton fire station said: "Somebody had
stuffed lighted paper through a back window, setting the kitchen on fire.

"She suffered quite considerably from shock and smoke.

"Because she was six months pregnant, paramedics decided it was best she go to
hospital."

A neighbour, who called in on Miss Gabou to offer his help this morning, said:
"It's a shocking thing to do to anyone, never mind a pregnant woman."

Crews in breathing sets dealt with the blaze. The three adjoining flats were
empty.

A police spokesman said house-to-house enquiries are being carried out by the
Arson Investigation Unit and CCTV footage is being checked.

SO Nicholson's fire crews had just finished dealing with another arson at around
10pm in Palmerston Street, Stockton, when anxious passers-by shouted there was a
fire in nearby Sydney Street.

SO Nicholson said: "Somebody had thrown burning rubbish onto the roof of a
single storey building.

"The house was unoccupied at the time."

And around an hour earlier firebugs broke into an unoccupied house in Hartington
Road, Stockton and started a fire in a back room.

Sub Officer Ian Dowson said: "It had been burning for a long time before it was
discovered.

"The adjoining occupied houses were smoke-logged and we were there for quite a
while, using a fan to clear the smoke."

Comment: Page 6

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Gazette Media Company Ltd

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 16, 2003

Higher Education: Terrorism vetting chaos: MPs to attack universities for
ignoring government safeguards.

BYLINE: Anna Fazackerley reports

SECTION: Guardian Education Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 652 words


Universities are failing to work together to safeguard against terrorist
threats, an inquiry by the Commons science and technology committee has found.

The final report of the committee's inquiry into the scientific response to
terrorism, which is due to be published next month, looks set to call for a
unified focus on security across universities. The committee has heard that the
existing scheme for vetting foreign researchers is not working, and many UK
researchers have yet to wake up to potential hazards.

The chair of the committee, Ian Gibson, told the Guardian: "Universities don't
seem to have definite views (on security). Each university has a different idea
of what needs to be done."

Gibson confirmed he had serious doubts about the existing Foreign and
Commonwealth Office scheme for vetting foreign students, which aims to prevent
technology that could be used to develop weapons of mass destruction being
transferred overseas. In theory, all postgraduate research applications from
students in one of the 11 named "countries of concern" wanting to work in a
high-risk area would be referred to the government for approval.

But in practice, adherence to the scheme is extremely patchy, with some
universities ignoring it completely. The committee heard that over a period of
six months, four universities had referred over 500 applications from foreign
researchers, while other similar institutions had referred none.

David Allen, the chair of the Association of Heads of University Admin
istration, said one problem was the amount of time it took to get a response
from the government. The FCO has pledged to process applications within 15
working days, but Allen said it often took several months. Amid fierce
competition to attract international students, many universities find such a
delay unworkable.

But there are other issues that cannot be resolved by simply increasing
resources. The AHUA said some universities boycotted the scheme because they
regarded it as racial discrimination, or an infringement of academic freedom.
Allen said: "The government really can't expect universities to be at the
frontline of national security. It's not what we are set up for and we don't
have the resources to do it."

The Commons foreign affairs committee has said the vetting scheme must be made
compulsory but Gibson's committee is debating whether it could be replaced by an
ethical code of conduct for scientists.

Professor Brian Eyre, chair of the Royal Society's standing committee on the
scientific aspects of international security, said some sort of code was
definitely needed to increase awareness of terrorism issues among researchers.

"We're talking about the potential for dual research - basic research which
produces results that could be of use to someone making a weapon. I'm not sure
that researchers are aware of that," he said.

But Professor Eyre said developing a meaningful ethical code that covered all
areas of science would be extremely difficult. "You are questioning the
integrity and honesty of researchers more generally," he said. Instead he called
for a more functional code of practice, including basic good standards for
research.

Research Councils UK said it would need to be persuaded that an ethical code for
scientists would achieve anything useful. It has told the committee it would
work only if there were a means of striking off those that infringed the code.

Gibson is also keen for the committee's report to take a hard line on increasing
openness about the work scientists are doing to combat terrorism. He said
conducting the inquiry had been frustrating because of the unnecessary level of
secrecy shrouding everything. "We want to know how scientists are used by
government. Do they work together? How is the science coordinated? There are
still a lot of unanswered questions in our minds," he said.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                         September 17, 2003, Wednesday

JAIL FOR ATTACK MOTHER;
 CAR TERROR OF DRUG PC

BYLINE: RON WARRILLOW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 241 words


A DRUG buyer who badly injured a PC by dragging him along the road with her car
has been jailed.

PC Neil Morgan broke his arm when he was finally thrown clear and use of the
limb has been left restricted, Michael Challinor, prosecuting, told
Wolverhampton Crown Court.

The officer saw a known drug dealer go to Diane Dunn as she sat in her car and,
when he opened the door, she quickly reversed away.

PC Morgan was hit by the open door of the car, knocked down and dragged along
before being thrown head first into the road.

People were shouting at Dunn to stop because of the officer's predicament, but
their pleas were ignored, added Mr Challinor.

Dunn, of William Street, Brierley Hill, admitted driving dangerously and
possessing amphetamines.

She further admitted causing grievous bodily harm to PC Morgan with intent to
resist arrest and was also banned from driving for two years.

Judge William Wood told the mother-of-three she had a bad record involving
drugs.

'Drugs have got you into the problems you now face.

'It was disgraceful the way you drove that day. 'You injured this man badly and
he now has a degree of permanent injury.'

John Brotherton, defending, said Dunn 'made a poor decision under pressure' and
drove away.

'She wanted to get home so her children would not know what had taken place or
see her arrested,' he said.

Dunn was sent to prison for nine months by Judge Wood.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          September 18, 2003, Thursday

BIN LADEN INDICTED FOR TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 204 words

HIGHLIGHT: WANTED MAN: Osama bin Laden


A SPANISH judge yesterday indicted Osama bin Laden and 34 others for alleged
links to terrorism, including the September 11 attacks.

In a near 700-page document, investigative magistrate Baltasar Garzon issued
international arrest orders for bin Laden and 17 others.

He ratified jailing orders for 11 already in prison in Spain and issued arrest
for several others in the country.

Spain served "as a place or base for resting, preparation, doctrinising, support
and financing" of al-Qaida, Garzon stated in the ruling.

The list of indicted suspects includes Tayssir Alouny, the Al-Jazeera satellite
TV reporter who has interviewed bin Laden and was arrested in Spain earlier this
month. He remains in custody.

Also named is Imad Eddin Barakat Yarkas, accused of leading an al-Qaida cell in
Spain and arrested in Madrid in November 2001.

Along with Germany, Spain is known to have been an important staging ground for
the September 11 attacks against the World Trade Centre and Pentagon.

Accused ringleader and suicide pilot Mohammed Atta visited Spain in July 2001
and is believed to have held a key planning meeting with other participants in
the north-eastern Spanish region of Tarragona.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Century Newspapers Limited

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Cornish Guardian

                               September 18, 2003

Cornwall'S Tribute To Terror Attack Victims

SECTION: News; Other; Armedforces; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 336 words


The Stars and Stripes and Union flags both stood at half-mast at RAF St Mawgan
last week as British and American personnel remembered those killed in terrorist
attacks on September 11, 2001.  Men and women from the RAF and Royal Navy joined
around 150 American Naval staff and their families in a short service to mark
the second anniversary of the attacks that claimed the lives of 2,792 people,
including 85 Britons, in New York and Washington.

The open-air service was held outside the headquarters building and centred on a
commemorative monument presented to the American contingent at RAF St Mawgan by
Newquay-based sculptor Colin Scull.

US Navy Chaplain Lieutenant Doug Upton read the Invocation and the Benediction.

Four wreaths were then laid by US Navy personnel, one to commemorate each
aircraft that was hijacked by terrorists and used to attack the twin towers of
the World Trade Center in New York and the Pentagon in Washington.

Three of the UK Navy wreath-layers were from different districts of New York,
scene of the attacks on the twin towers.

Captain Steven H Ross USN, Commanding Officer of the Joint Maritime Facility,
where the Americans serve, later addressed the congregation. He reminded them of
the chain of world-wide events that was set in motion by "9.11".

Meanwhile, Rick Rescorla, the Cornishman who became a hero of the attack, was
remembered at a simple ceremony in his home town of Hayle.

The 62 year-old Vietnam war veteran died as he guided 2,700 people from the
burning South Tower, where he was a security chief, after it was struck by one
of the hijacked aircraft.

Last Thursday, at 1.46pm, the time the attacks started on the Twin Towers, his
cousin Jon Daniels and lifelong friend Mervyn Sullivan laid flowers at his
memorial stone in Hayle.

The flowers were a bouquet of white roses ordered by Mr Rescorla's American
widow Susan, who lives in New Jersey. The memorial stands on land opposite the
house in Penpol Terrace where Mr Rescorla was born and brought up.


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2003 Cornish Guardian

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS

             UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Buckinghamshire

                               September 18, 2003

Knife attack terror at shop

LENGTH: 311 words

DATELINE: Buckinghamshire


A TEENAGE shop worker was slashed with a knife and punched in the face during an
armed robbery at an off-licence in Stokenchurch.

The 18-year-old cashier was left with a gashed forearm and bruising as he
desperately tried to fend off the masked raider who grabbed cash and cigarettes
in the melee.

DC Steve Eady of High Wycombe CID described the incident as a "particularly
nasty attack on a young boy".

He said: "The man brandished a knife threatened his victim and then cut him on
the arm with the knife. He was wearing a balaclava to hide his identity."

The robbery took place shortly after 10pm on Sunday when a man entered the Wine
Rack store in Wycombe Road and demanded cash from the till. He assaulted the
teenager and raided the cash register.

Police believe the man who fled the scene carrying three bags filled with cash
videotapes and cigarettes could have used a car parked nearby in the getaway.

Unwins wine merchants which owns the Wine Rack chain confirmed the Stokenchurch
outlet had been hit but refused to reveal the full extent of the raid. A
spokesman said: "Our store assistant was not badly hurt in the raid."

Management declined to comment on the teenager's condition or offer any public
message of support following the teenager's ordeal.

The cashier was treated at Wycombe Hospital for superficial wounds and shock. He
was later discharged.

Detectives are hunting an Asian man who is 6ft tall and of heavy build. He was
wearing a balaclava but may have a pierced eyebrow.

He was also wearing gloves black jeans and a black jacket.

DC Eady who's leading the manhunt added: "I'm keen to speak to anyone who may
remember seeing an Asian man dressed in black in the Stokenchurch area and
carrying two bags. One bag would have been fairly heavy. Call DC Eady on 08458
505 505 if you have any information

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The off-licence where the attack happened;

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           September 19, 2003, Friday

STUDENTS KNIFE TERROR;
 TEENAGERS ATTACKED BY GANG IN PARK

BYLINE: ANNA WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 158 words


THREE terrified teenagers were attacked at knifepoint by a ten-strong gang in a
Solihull park.

It happened as the students were eating their lunch in Malvern Park.

Det Con Jo Howells, of Solihull CID, said the students were sitting down near
the tennis courts when the gang struck at 1.30pm on Wednesday. 'They were
surrounded by ten black and Asian lads who began making threats,' she said.

'The students were grabbed around the neck and punched and hit.

'One victim had his French Connection T-shirt taken from his back,' she added.

The robbers also escaped with a gold chain, silver chain and cigarettes.

Det Con Howells described one as an Asian male, aged 1718, of medium build and
5ft 7ins.

He had short black hair, his left eyebrow was shaved and he had a gold tooth. He
wore a black leather glove on one hand.

Witnesses or anyone with information should contact detectives at Solihull on
0845 113 5000.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 19, 2003, Friday

JENNIFER: MY TERROR OVER GUN ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 222 words


ACTRESS Jennifer Ellison yesterday spoke of her horror at a gun attack on her
home.

The former Brookside star, who is now pursuing a pop career, was not at home at
the time of the attack.

It is believed three shots were fired at the house the 20-year-old star shares
with fiance Tony Richardson in Liverpool.

Jennifer said yesterday: "It's scary to think something like this can happen on
your own doorstep.

"I am just thankful no one was hurt."

One bullet hole was found at around head height on the wooden front door and
another could be seen in the white frame.

Yesterday, there was a police guard outside the four-bedroomed house.

Neighbours said they were shocked by the shooting.

And Jennifer's fiance's mother said she now wanted the couple to stay in London
for their own safety.

Elaine Richardson said: "I was shaking when Tony called me to say there had been
a shooting.

"There are that many people looking out for them. As long as they stay in
London, no one will get to them.

"I spoke to Jennifer on the phone and she was really upset and shaken up.

"You never expect this kind of thing to happen I believe it was some wicked
people who are jealous of them being together.

"They see a good-looking couple who are doing well for themselves and some
people envy that."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOCKED: Jennifer

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2003 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      September 19, 2003, Friday Edition 1

Terror attack experts ready

BYLINE: By Peter Young, The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 319 words


   Experts in treating victims of a terrorist strike have hit the region's
streets.

The mobile incident response unit, based on Tyneside, can be deployed anywhere
in the North East in a major emergency.

The unit will be used to decontaminate victims in the event of a biological or
chemical attack.

The move is one of the measures introduced by the Government following the
September 11 terrorist attacks on America.

Ministers set aside 53 million to help the emergency and rescue services deal
with large-scale incidents.

The decontamination equipment and vehicles were delivered to the Tyne

The North East Ambulance Service is also working closely with the other
emergency services.

Ambulance crews would provide help to decontaminate people and treat them at the
scene before taking them to hospital.

They would also advise on which people should undergo decontamination.

Fire chiefs are still awaiting the delivery of specialised vehicles and in the
meantime another vehicle has been made available as a temporary measure.

Initially the unit will cover Tyne , Northumberland, Durham and Teesside.

But by the end of the year all four areas should have their own specially
equipped vehicles.

In the event of an attack, the area would be cordoned off and people would be
washed down by walking through the decontamination unit.

Tyne , but this is for relatively small-scale incidents and the aim is to enable
the region to deal with a major attack

After September 11, the Government's civil contingencies committee set up New
Dimension, a group to look at ways of responding to large scale incidents.

The latest move is revealed by Tyne Wear's chief fire officer Richard Bull in a
report to be submitted to a meeting of the Tyne

In it Mr Bull says the specialised vehicle will probably be delivered in October
or November and the temporary one is now operationally available.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                         September 24, 2003, Wednesday

KNIFE ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 169 words


A YOUNG mum watched in horror as a thug held a knife to the throat of her
three-year-old daughter.

The frantic mum pleaded with the robber to release the girl as he and his gang
yelled at her to hand over cash. They only let go of the frightened youngster
when her mum handed over pounds 60 from her purse. Detectives today branded the
attack 'vile and despicable' and appealed for help to help trace the three black
offenders. They struck as the 22-year-old woman, who has not been named, walked
along Holly Hill in Frankley, at 8.30pm yesterday with her daughter.

Police said the first robber was aged 18, 6ft 2ins and skinny with a shaved
head. He was wearing stone-washed baggy jeans and T-shirt. The second was also
18, 5ft 5ins, with short cropped hair and wearing a blue tracksuit and trainers.

The third was in his 30s, 6ft and stocky with a beard and moustache, He had a
scar under his left eye.

Detectives at Bournville Lane are investigating and can be contacted on 0845 113
5000.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                         September 24, 2003, Wednesday

DISABLED COUPLE FLEE ARSON ATTACK;
 PAIR SAY THEY LIVE IN TERROR AFTER TWO YEARS OF INCIDENTS

BYLINE: STEVE EVANS DETERMINED: William Ansell by his front door which was
damaged in an arson attack. Picture: DARRYL SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 460 words


A DISABLED Nuneaton couple, whose home was targeted by arsonists, say they have
been terrorised for two years and are afraid to go on holiday for fear of more
attacks.

They have spoken of their terror after scrambling to safety from a fire on the
doorstep of their specially adapted ground-floor flat.

The fire at Lexington Court, Abbey Street, destroyed the door and caused
extensive damage.

William Ansell, 68, and partner Helen McAllister, 61, struggled out of their
home and stood shivering in the cold waiting for paramedics and fire crews to
arrive at about 1am yesterday.

Ms McAllister who was treated at George Eliot Hospital for smoke inhalation,
said they feared for their lives as a heap of burning rubbish blazed in the
stairwell of the block of flats.

She said: "It was absolutely terrifying. I couldn't sleep when I got back from
the hospital. It was just too frightening.

"We could have been trapped inside. We could have just slept straight through.
It was lucky we realised when we did. I had sat up in bed and said to William
that I could see the lights outside flickering and then we smelled the smoke."

The couple were able to escape because their flat had been adapted to include a
back door with a ramp for wheelchair and mobility scooter access.

They have lived in the flat for nine years and said this latest incident comes
after two years of burglaries and fire damage to their car.

Mr Ansell said: "We're determined we're not going to let them beat us and we
don't want to move, but now we've got to seriously think about it. This
situation was so dangerous and we're lucky to have come out of it."

Ms McAllister used to work at George Eliot Hospital as a nurse after moving to
Nuneaton from Scotland 33 years ago. She was forced to leave her job due to ill
health 15 years ago and now suffers from diabetes, asthma, thyroid problems and
has to rely on prescription medicine to keep her well.

Mr Ansell is also registered disabled.

Now the couple are not sure if they can leave their home secure. Ms McAllister
said: "We were supposed to be going to Mablethorpe next week for a break but I
really don't think we can leave now. We cannot be sure that our home is safe
anymore."

DC Dave King, of Nuneaton CID, who is appealing for information into the
incident, said: "The couple who live in the flat are both disabled and this
could have been a far worse outcome.

"The people who started the fire may not realise what the consequences of their
actions could have been. The rubbish was piled up against the door in a public
stairway and other residents in the block may have seen something."

Anyone with information can contact him on 01926 415000 or Crimestoppers on 0800
555111.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                          September 25, 2003, Thursday

TERROR ATTACKS FOILED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 94 words


POLICE and the security services have prevented several possible terror attacks
in Britain over the last 18 months, Scotland Yard commissioner Sir John Stevens
said today.

Sir John told a meeting of the Metropolitan Police Authority that he could not
go into details but possible attacks had been foiled more than once.

Issuing a stark warning over the terrorist threat Sir John said: "I want to
emphasise the high state of alert this city is on at the moment.

"There has been a massive amount of work taking place in the anti-terrorist
branch."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 25, 2003

India blames terror cells for temple attacks;

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 107 words


A DEADLY attack on a Hindu temple in India's Gujarat state last year was jointly
carried out by two Pakistan-based Islamist militant groups with the help of
local people, a senior police official said yesterday.

"We have enough evidence now to say that the attack was coordinated by different
cells of the Jaish-eMohammed and Lashkar-e-Taiba, " P P Pandey, who is heading
the probe into the attack, told a news conference.

The Jaish and Lashkar are among a dozen militant groups fighting Indian rule in
the Muslimmajority state of Jammu and Kashmir. India blamed the Jaish for an
attack on its parliament in December 2001.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004

               Copyright 2003 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              North Devon Journal

                               September 25, 2003

Soldiers Foil Terrorist Attack In Ireland

SECTION: News; Other; Armedforces; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 206 words


Brave soldiers from Barnstaple helped thwart a terrorist operation in Northern
Ireland.  Pte Chris Hobbs and Cpl Ben Brookman, of the 1st Battalion Devon and
Dorset Regiment helped foil a counter terrorist attack in County Down.

Members of the Regiment discovered a small but deadly explosive device placed at
the side of a road. They cordoned off the area and, according to Cpl Brookman,
they were on the scene for 14 hours.

He said: "We had to divert the traffic and stop people from going into the area.
It was extremely hard work but very good." The improvised bomb contained 1kg of
home made explosive and was found after a police search. It was removed and
destroyed.

Speaking at Ballynahinch police station, the district commander for the Police
Service of Northern Ireland, Robert Robinson, described the discovery of the
device as "significant." "This appears to have been an attempt to kill police
officers going about their duty of serving the community." He believed it was
the work of the Real IRA.

The 1st Battalion, based at Ballykinler, supports the country's police in
restoring normality to the province. The regiment is nearing the end of a two
year posting and will move to Catterick, Yorkshire, in March 2004.


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                       Copyright 2003 North Devon Journal

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           September 26, 2003, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS ON UK FOILED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 217 words


Police and the security services have prevented several possible terror attacks
in Britain over the past 18 months, Scotland Yard commissioner Sir John Stevens
said yesterday.

Sir John told a meeting of the Metropolitan Police Authority he could not go
into details but possible attacks had been foiled more than once.

Issuing a stark warning over the terrorist threat, Sir John said: 'I want to
emphasise the high state of alert this city is on at the moment. 'There has been
a massive amount of work taking place in the anti-terrorist branch and security
services for the last year-and-a-half. 'That is ongoing in a major way at the
present time.

'The activities undertaken by the anti-terrorist branch specifically in relation
to London and nationally with the security services have prevented in some
instances a possible terrorist attack on this city.

'That continues and we regard it as our major responsibility at this time.

'There is a massive amount going on.

'As the head of the anti-terrorist branch, David Veness says he is
two-and-a-half to three times busier now than he has ever been in his extensive
experience.

'I can say no more and I apologise for that.'

Sir John offered to brief members of the authority privately on the ongoing
terrorist threat.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 28, 2003

UK troops in Iraq warned of inevitable terror attack

BYLINE: Jason Burke and Paul Harris in New York

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1043 words


A MAJOR terrorist strike against British forces in Iraq is 'inevitable',
according to senior government sources in Iraq and intelligence officers in
Britain and the Middle East. Any such attack would cause massive casualties and
further destabilise the current US-led occupation government.

A member of the Iraqi governing council told The Observer that a major bombing
aimed at UK forces in southern Iraq was 'a matter of time' and that intelligence
indicated a number of different groups had been making preparations for such an
attack.

'There are people in the British sector who have the means and the will to
strike and are just waiting for the right opportunity,' the council member said.
Intelligence officers believe that a wave of attacks is being planned to
coincide with the Muslim holy month of Ramadan which starts at the end of next
month.

The exact composition of the various groups resisting US and British troops is
still unclear. Paul Bremer, the top American civilian official in Baghdad, said
last week that the United States was holding at least 19 members of 'al-Qaeda'
in custody in Iraq. Though experts doubt that the militants imprisoned by the
Americans are in fact members of Osama bin Laden's organisation, Bremer's
statement was the first public mention of the detention of Islamic militants.

Bremer said he did not know the nationalities of those detained, but suggested
they were among the 248 foreign fighters currently held in Iraq, including 123
from Syria, and said the 19 detainees' links to al-Qaeda had been determined by
'interrogations or in documentation'. British intelligence experts believe that
the Islamic militants are joining up with former Baathist elements.

The insurgents are increasingly gaining support among Iraqi people who, though
they welcomed the fall of Saddam Hussein, are angry at the continuing lack of
basic utilities and security in Iraq, Many have also been enraged by
heavy-handed US tactics.

Senior British Army officers blame part of the threat on the slow pace of
reconstruction in Iraq and have complained to their counterparts in the Foreign
Office and the Department for International Development. The military believe
that the continuing problems in bringing aid into Iraq is turning local people
against coalition forces. Some senior officers and Ministry of Defence officials
attribute some of the delays to the slower, methodical pace at which their
counterparts in other departments are used to working.

Aid and reconstruction in Iraq suffered a further blow last week when the United
Nations withdrew many of its staff, citing security concerns.

Serving British soldiers have told The Observer that they are increasingly
resentful of the demands being made on them. 'The blokes are just getting hacked
off with it,' one NCO in an elite infantry regiment said. 'There does not seem
to be much light at the end of a pretty unpleasant tunnel.' The increasing
demands on British troops have focused soldiers' anger on long-standing
grievances.

The British-run sector has been relatively quiet. Only 20 of the more than 500
attacks on allied forces recorded in Iraq last month took place there. However
recent weeks have seen death threats to Westerners in hotels and a strike on a
police station that left seven injured. According to one report, a six-strong
group linked to al-Qaeda was arrested recently in the Basra region. Eighteen
British soldiers have now been killed since President Bush declared combat
operations over on 1 May.

British and American troops have been trying to shift some of the burden of
maintaining security onto local forces. The US army turned over a 210-mile
stretch of the border separating Iraq from Iran to a local border police force
yesterday, for the first time relinquishing control of a sensitive frontier
area.

Washington is increasingly anxious to limit the number of American troops
deployed in Iraq as polls show increasing domestic discontent at the continuing
failure to stabilise the country and the huge cost of the campaign in men and
materiel.

The Bush administration is now looking ahead to next year's presidential
election. Bush's approval rating stands at 50 per cent, the lowest of his
presidency.

Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and his close Pentagon officials have seen
their influence in Washington diminish. 'Rumsfeld has taken a terrible beating,'
said Mel Goodman, a former CIA analyst and now senior fellow at the Centre for
International Policy think-tank.

As Rumsfeld has suffered, Colin Powell, the less hawkish Secretary of State, has
become stronger. Last week it was Powell who announced that Iraq would have six
months to draft a new constitution and who appeared on television as the public
face of the administration.

The White House is reworking draft proposals that would give UN authorisation to
a multinational force under US leadership to get more troops and money into
Iraq. An early draft asks the unelected Iraqi Governing Council to draw up a
schedule for a new constitution and elections.

France wants a rapid transfer to Iraqi self-rule, but Washington wants to take
the time to make sure Iraq has functioning institutions. Washington hopes that
Turkey, Pakistan and India - as well as European powers - may eventually be
persuaded to send troops. However none is likely to commit itself soon.

Officials at the Pentagon are now braced for the release of an interim report by
the Iraq Survey Group, the body tasked with finding weapons of mass destruction
in Iraq, which is believed to have discovered nothing more than documents and
plans.

Some Pentagon officials say the current low-level insurgency situation in Iraq
will act as a 'fly paper', luring Islamic militants to where they can be killed.
But such an optimistic gloss - which depends on there being a finite number of
al-Qaeda fighters - has been given short shrift by experts. 'It just doesn't
make a lot of sense. If you kill 1,000 al-Qaeda in Iraq, then I just don't
believe the worldwide level of al-Qaeda is going to go down by 1,000. We are
seeing lots of new recruits because of Iraq,' said Professor Richard Stoll, a
political scientist at Rice University, Texas.


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 29, 2003, Monday

TERROR: CONGRESS ATTACKS CIA CLAIMS ABOUT AL QA'IDA AND SADDAM;
 BUSH'S JUSTIFICATION FOR ATTACK ON SADDAM IS DERIDED BY A

BYLINE: ANDREW BUNCOMBE IN WASHINGTON Condoleezza Rice: Stout defence of the
President; Osama bin Laden and his senior lieutenant, Ayman al-Zawahri, were
said to have Iraqi links Al-Jazeera

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 600 words


THE INTELLIGENCE used by the CIA to conclude that Iraq had weapons of mass
destruction and had links to al-Qa'ida has been severely criticised by leaders
of a high-ranking Congressional committee as being "outdated, circumstantial,
piecemeal and fragmentary". They said the agency's ability to gather fresh
information had "significant deficiencies".

In a scathing attack on the information cited by President George Bush and his
senior officials as they made their case for war, the leaders of the House of
Representatives Intelligence Committee, said the CIA had relied on "past
assessments" that dated from 1998 when UN weapons inspectors left Iraq.

"The absence of proof that chemical and biological weapons and their related
development programmes had been destroyed was considered proof that they
continued to exist," the committee leaders said in a letter to the CIA director,
George Tenet.

Controversy over America's failure to find the weapons of mass destruction that
the Bush administration insisted Iraq possessed has been growing since US and
British forces ousted Saddam Hussein and occupied the country. And, this week,
America's senior weapons inspector, David Kay, is expected to report that his
team of 1,400 officials and special forces soldiers have still uncovered no
evidence of WMD.

But the criticism by the leaders of the Republican-controlled intelligence
committee will be of particular embarrassment to the Bush administration, given
the sympathies of the chairman, Porter Goss. Mr Goss is a former CIA agent and a
long-time supporter of the often beleaguered Mr Tenet. His letter to Mr Tenet
containing the criticisms was also signed by the committee's senior Democrat.

The letter said: "Lack of specific intelligence in regime plans and intentions,
WMD and Iraq's support to terrorist groups appears to have hampered the
intelligence community's ability to provide a better assessment to policy-
makers from 1998 until 2003."

The letter followed a review by the intelligence committee of 19 volumes of
classified material used by the CIA when drawing up its secret 2002 national
intelligence estimate (NIE) on Iraq. This was considered the most comprehensive
assessment of Iraq's capability available to the Bush administration and was
regularly cited as the case for war against Saddam was made.

The administration has been on the back foot as it becomes increasingly clear
the discovery of any WMD in Iraq is extremely unlikely.

Yesterday, the President's national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, was the
latest senior official to defend the intelligence used by Mr Bush. "The
President believes he had very good intelligence going into the war," she said
on a US television talk show. "There was enrichment of the intelligence from
1998 over the period leading up to the war. And nothing pointed to a reversal of
Saddam Hussein's very active efforts to acquire weapons of mass destruction. It
was very clear this continued and it was a gathering danger."

The CIA also defended its intelligence-gathering. In a statement, spokesman Bill
Harlow, said: "In the post-1998 period, the intelligence community launched a
sustained effort to enhance our unilateral understanding of Iraq and its weapons
of mass destruction programmes. From all of our disciplines, important gains
were made." Mr Harlow said the intelligence committee had "yet to take the time
to fully evaluate how the NIE was constructed and why and on what specific basis
judgements and findings were reached by our national intelligence officer and
analysts".

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           September 29, 2003, Monday

NAILBOMB ATTACK TERROR;
 DEADLY PUB DEVICE LINKED TO CAR BOMB EXPLOSION AT CLUB

BYLINE: MATT SLATER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 47 words


AN EXPLOSIVE device thrown into a crowded pub was a nail bomb which could have
killed drinkers if it had gone off, it was revealed today.

The attack at Dickie Lewis's pub in Walton is now being linked to a car bomb
explosion outside the city centre Club 051 a week earlier.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEADLY: This is the nail bomb that was thrown into the pub

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           September 29, 2003, Monday

GIRL IN SCHOOL ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: MATT SLATER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 361 words


A PRIMARY school bully who has made a 10 year -old girl's life a misery is under
police investigation.

Elizabeth Neild,from Bootle,is terrified to go back to school after being
tormented and attacked in the classroom and playground. Her mother fears she
could follow the same tragic path as schoolboy Thomas Thompson, who took a fatal
overdose of pills after being bullied by fellow pupils.

Elizabeth returned home one day last week in floods of tears after the bully, a
girl classmate at Great Crosby primary school,The Northern Road, threw stones in
her face.

In the past year she has had her food spat in, a book rammed into her throat and
has been punched and kicked.

Police have spoken to Elizabeth and her parents to compile a dossier on how she
has been bullied.

Her mother, Heather Neild, 29, said her daughter would not be going back to the
school until something is done.

The housewife said: "My little girl is so scared of what they will do next and
it has to stop. She wants to stay at home and I will keep her here until the
situation changes.

"What happened to Thomas Thompson shows what bullies are capable of. I am
terrified she will feel as bad as him.

"The police are going to help and I just want the school to be tougher with the
bully. "They are aware of the situation and have got the girl to write sorry
letters. But it is just not enough."

Elizabeth's father, Paul Hendry, 33, from Maghull, added: "My daughter has been
picked on and bullied just because someone has decided they don't likeher.

"The school must protect her and I will be demanding some strong action."

Elizabeth's parents have asked for a meeting with school staff.

A Merseyside police spokeswoman said: "We are aware of this situation and will
look into what has happened."

A Sefton council spokesman said: "Great Crosby primary school and Sefton council
take allegations of bullying extremely seriously.

"In this instance the school has been in discussion with the families involved
to find a resolution.

"The school and local education authority will do its utmost to ensure this is
resolved as soon as possible."

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BULLYING VICTIM: Elizabeth Neild,10,from Bootle , with her
mother,Heather Picture: EDDIE BARFORD

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Essex

                               September 29, 2003

Canvey: Crowbar attack terror

LENGTH: 64 words

DATELINE: Essex


A woman was today recovering after she was beaten on her doorstep by another
woman wielding a crowbar.

The victim suffered severe bruising to her arm and back during the assault
outside her home in St Christopher's Close Canvey.

Published Friday September 26 2003

Brought to you by the Evening Echo
(http://www.thisisessex.co.uk/essex/about_this_site/hosts-echo.html)

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                               September 30, 2003

Pensioner'S Dog Attack Terror

BYLINE: E. MMA SLEE

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 379 words


A pensioner has told how she was attacked by a pack of terriers as she enjoyed
an afternoon stroll in Exeter.  The 60-year-old said she was terrified as the
dogs surrounded her and began biting and clawing her legs. "They were just like
a group of wolves," she told the Echo.

"I have never seen anything like it. I was very frightened, and tried to get
them off with my shopping bag, but the attack lasted several minutes. Had it
been a child or someone older, they may have been traumatised for life. It makes
me angry that you cannot walk through a public field without being attacked."
The Whipton woman, who did not want to be identified, suffered bite marks which
pierced the skin on her lower legs.

She called the police as soon as she got home.

She told the Echo she and a friend had walked to the Double Locks pub from the
Quay on Monday afternoon. They had lunch at the pub and at around 3.30pm decided
to walk along the footpath towards Countess Wear.

They noticed some caravans in a field, and a group of six or seven dogs, which
looked like young terriers, sitting next to the footpath.

"We walked quietly along, minding our own business. We were on a public
footpath. Then, all of a sudden, one barked and ran over. All the others
followed and attacked my legs.  I could not get them off. They ripped my
trousers and a paper bag I was carrying with shopping in it.

"I was in a panic. I just tried to fend them off with my shopping bags. I didn't
do it too much - I was frightened of getting the dogs more aggravated in case
they attacked me more." She said that no one came out of the caravans to help.
"There were young children outside playing, so there must have been adults
inside the caravans," she said.

The woman said she was angry that she could not walk in safety on a public path.

"The last thing on my mind was that I would be attacked," she said.

"I did not provoke them. I just glanced over towards them. It's not good enough
that you can't walk through a public field without being attacked." She added:
"During the attack, I was thinking, 'when is it going to stop?' A police
spokesman said officers would be in the area of the attack today to investigate
the claims. "We take reports of incidents such as this very seriously," he said.


LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2003 Express & Echo (Exeter)

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               September 30, 2003

Terror of lorry driver after arson attack

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 462 words


A LORRY DRIVER spoke yesterday of the terrifying moments when he realised his
lorry had been set on fire - just three months after another haulier died in his
blazing cab.



Allan Gray, 26, had parked up for the night in Grimsby and was dozing off when
he heard crackling noises and saw flames leaping up the side of his lorry in a
mirror.

He scrambled out moments before the fire got hold.

"If I had carried on sleeping and never heard any of the noises, the whole lorry
would have burned,'' he said.

"It's terrifying. It was burning when I was lying in the bunk and it just got
massive in no time at all.''

Three youths were seen running away from the lorry in the loading area of
Somerfields supermarket in Osborne Street, Grimsby.

By the time the fire brigade had arrived, part of the back of the 26-tonne
refrigerated lorry had been destroyed.

The incident followed a fire in June in which lorry driver Derek Bailey died.

Mr Bailey, 48, of Bideford, in Devon, was asleep in his cab when the blaze
started.

Kevin Fielding, 38, of Gilbey Road, Grimsby and Darren Wringe, 41, of Dunmow
Street, in the town, were jointly charged with manslaughter and arson being
reckless as to whether Mr Bailey's life would be endangered.

They are due to appear at Hull Crown Court on Friday for a plea and directions
hearing.

Det Insp Paul Cunningham said Mr Gray had been lucky to escape. "The fire is
being treated as suspicious and police consider this to be an extremely serious
and mindless incident.

"The tragic events at Sainsbury's recently, when a lorry driver tragically lost
his life could so easily have been repeated. The driver was very lucky to escape
with his life.''

Mr Gray, of Inverurie, said he had travelled down from Newcastle with his lorry
and had been making deliveries round the East Coast.

He had read about what happened to Mr Bailey, but it had not crossed his mind
that it could happen to him.

"It's shaken me up. You don't expect to wake up in the middle of the night and
see someone's put the lorry on fire.

"The flames were going up the height of the lorry. I moved pretty quick.

"I was shaking when I called 999".


The car park was sealed off yesterday morning as scenes of crime officers
continued their investigations.

Police are looking at other reports of fires on Monday night.

The three male youths were seen running towards the level crossing and police
are appealing to neighbouring businesses to preserve their CCTV footage.

Station officer Mike Snell, of Humberside Fire and Rescue Service, said: "He was
very fortunate that he happened to wake up and get out before the blaze engulfed
his cab.''

He declined to comment on the cause of the fire because of on-going
investigations.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2003

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                October 1, 2003

Man in stab attack terror

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 84 words


A Gang of five youths attacked and stabbed a young man in Aberdeen. The
23-year-old was pounced on while walking in Cummings Park Circle, Northfield.

Police said the victim was stabbed several times and suffered injuries to his
arm and back.

He was taken to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary and kept overnight for observation but
was expected to be released later today.

Detectives have launched a hunt for the thugs who carried out the attack at
10.45pm yesterday and are appealing for witnesses.


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2003 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Burton Mail

                           October 1, 2003 Wednesday

Yob terror attacks hit village school

BYLINE: SUZANNE HARROP

LENGTH: 261 words


A HEADTEACHER is appealing for villagers to shop glue-sniffing, drug-taking and
alcohol-drinking teenagers who are gathering at night outside a village school.

The yobs are vandalising Walton Primary School where teachers are so concerned
that they are refusing to install £2,000 of new play equipment in the playground
amid fears it will be targeted. The problems at the school in Coton Road,
Walton, have worsened during the past few weeks. At the weekend yobs dismantled
a wooden fence and threw the slats onto the roof.

They also tried to enter the school, damaging an airvent. Headteacher Caroline
White has now joined forces with the village's beat officer, Pc Richard Ford, to
appeal to villagers to help solve the problem. She said: "We haven't had a
problem for around two years, but recently teenagers are using the back of the
school for alcohol consumption and possibly glue-sniffing and drug-taking. "My
caretaker is having to clean it up to make it safe for the children and we want
the community to be aware of the problems, be extra vigilant and to tell us if
they know who the culprits are. "The school's pupils are very upset that people
want to do this to their school. We have some new play equipment which has been
bought by the PTA, but we don't want to put that outside in case it gets
vandalised because the children would be distraught." Pc Ford said: "The
vandalism has been going on for a while. Walton is a small village so people
must know who is causing these problems." Anybody with information is urged to
contact Pc Ford on 01332 290100.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                    Copyright 2003 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 1, 2003

11 held 'as terrorist attack is thwarted'

BYLINE: BEN TAYLOR

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 269 words


DETECTIVES believe they have foiled a major terror attack after a series of
raids yesterday.

Ten suspected Algerian terrorists were held in dawn swoops and another man was
arrested last night.

Seven of the suspects were detained in London and four in Manchester as part of
the same police operation.

The men were all believed to be in their thirties and most were held under
section 41 of the Terrorism Act 2000, on suspicion of being involved in the
'commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism'.

The London arrests were carried out in the north, east and south-east of the
city by Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch. Two business premises were also
searched.

All the men arrested in the capital were taken to a police station in Central
London. In Manchester, a 32-year- old man was also held under Section 41 of the
Terrorism Act He was transferred to London for questioning and was said by
security sources to be a 'potential major player'.

However, the other three arrests in Manchester were believed to be less
significant.

The operation was carried out by Greater Manchester Police at the request of the
Anti-Terrorist Branch.

The intelligence that led to yesterday's raids is said to have come from U.

S .

investigators.

Antiterrorism police in the UK have now arrested more than 300 people since the
September 11 attacks.

Britain's most senior police officer, Scotland Yard Commissioner Sir John
Stevens, and the MI5 Director General, Eliza Manningham-Buller, have both warned
of the possibility of an Al Qaeda attack.

2000.

END

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 3, 2003

Britain's skies at busiest since US terrorist attack

BYLINE: ROBERT LEA

SECTION: A; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 489 words


BRITAIN'S skies have never been busier - official. Two years on from the 9.11
atrocities which crippled the airline industry, National Air Traffic Services
said today that last month was its busiest September ever. The report follows
the news that Nats had its busiest day ever over the August bank holiday.

Nats said the 188,904 flights that it handled in the month was 4% up on last
year and 2% better than the previous record in September 2000.

In the last 12 months, Nats has handled 1.57 million flights, again 4% up on
last year and 2% up on 2001.

But while Nats was also reporting encouraging decreases in delays, record levels
of air movements are not necessarily all good news for the loss-making,
part-privatised air-traffic controller.

"This demonstrates that customer confidence in the airline industry is
continuing to return," said Nats chief executive Richard Everitt.

"But while all areas of our business are showing growth, the development of the
low-cost market masks a continued weakness in transatlantic flights."

Flights to and over Britain from North America are down by around 4% from
pre-9.11 levels, which is not good news financially for Nats because it gets
paid for every kilometre that aircraft fly, making North Atlantic services
lucrative and the key to its return to profitability.

Nats, which is owned by Britain's seven major airlines and the airport operator
BAA, has racked up losses of 110 million over the past two years.

It is the expanding budget airlines, led by Ryanair and easyJet, which have
changed the flight map of Britain utterly.

But the latest figures also show other low-fare airlines are helping push the
revolution. Nats said regional airports are showing the strongest growth, led by
Southampton, where FlyBE (the revamped, former British European), and Cardiff,
where bmibaby (a subsidiary of bmi British Midland) has opened for business.

Nats' move to the state-oftheart 600 million air-traffic control centre at
Swanwick in Hampshire appears to be paying dividends.

Flight delays attributable to air-traffic control have come down a staggering
66% from last year with average delays per flight now running at 0.7 minutes
from 2.9 minutes.

BA 'is not courting Iberia'

BRITISH Airways will not be rushing into bed with its Spanish partner, BA chief
Rod Eddington said today.

There had been speculation that meetings in Madrid yesterday and today between
Eddington and senior colleagues with their counterparts at Iberia could be used
to announce a closer tie-up. BA's chief however said it would neither ape the
Air France merger with KLM announced earlier this week, nor raise BA's 9% stake
in Iberia.

But he added: "If we would have to pick a partner for further integration in the
future, we'd pick Iberia." Shares in Iberia, Europe's sixth-largest airline, had
run up 7% in recent days on the speculation.

END

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                                October 3, 2003

Ambulance staff receive training on how to cope with a terrorist attack

LENGTH: 216 words


AMBULANCE services rushed to the scene of a test biological and chemical attack
in Chippenham on Wednesday to display a new system of coping with terrorist
attacks.

Wiltshire ambulance service has recently introduced decontamination tents and
new medical procedures in line with government guidelines following the
September 11 terrorist attacks on America.

Medical staff took part in a training exercise at the training college in
Chippenham on Wednesday to promote the Triage system designed to identify
casualties at the scene of an accident.

Alan Morris group station officer for the ambulance service said: "The
techniques on display today were planned to cope with a range of disasters from
biological or chemical attacks to something on the scale of September 11."

The Triage system was designed and created by doctors working for SP Services
and Wiltshire ambulance service adopted it earlier this year.

Every ambulance carries a pack of coloured cards to be placed on casualties so
the medical service can prioritise patients.

Decontamination tents designed to clean people after a biological or chemical
attack were also used at the training day.

Officials from the nuclear and aviation industry were on hand to note how the
procedure was carried out.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            October 7, 2003, Tuesday

ARMED ROBBERS STAGE TERROR RAID ON CLUB;
 BRUTAL ATTACK ON LICENSEE

BYLINE: ALAN WESTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 439 words


THE licensee of a Cheshire social club last night spoke of his terrifying ordeal
after he was attacked and robbed by two armedintruders.

Martin Peak was locking up the Lostock Sports and Social Club, near Northwich,
after members had left for the night on Sunday when he was confronted by the two
maskedmen. He was hit several times in the face and then had a large kitchen
knife held to his throat. In the ensuing struggle, his left forearm was slashed
and he was also smashed across the back of the head withabaseballbat.

Also present in the club was 72- year old helper Roy Maddock,and both he and Mr
Peak were tied up by the hands and dragged around the premises as the robbers
searched for cash.

They were first taken to the room where the safe was kept, which was then
emptied. The tills were then raided in the members' bar,along with the charity
boxes,and crowbars were used to force open the fruit machines. Both Mr Peakand
Mr Maddock were also forced to empty their pockets.

They were then tied up with a length of cable to the beer pumps behind the bar
before the two intruders fled with the entire weekend's takings, believed to be
between pounds 5,000 and pounds 6,000.

Mr Peak managed to free himself shortly afterwards and raised the alarm. Both
men were taken to hospital, where Mr Peak required eight stitches for the cut to
his arm.

It is believed the same ruthless gang were responsible for the attack at the
nearby Royal British Legion club in Middlewich last month, in which a married
couple were held and robbed at knifepoint.

Both offenders aredescribedas having strong Liverpool accents, and a baseball
bat and long-bladed knife were used in bothattacks.

Despite their ordeal,Mr Peak and Mr Maddock were back at work at the
socialclublast night.

Mr Peak, who runs his own company in Warrington, said: "It'sa sick sign of the
times that we work hard all week, and then these people come in for an hour and
rob people who work voluntarily."

Widower Roy Maddock, who worked as a Manweb electrician before retiring, said
when they were first confronted by the knife-wielding robber it was "like
something out of the film Psycho."

He said: "He was using the most foul language, saying he wanted the key to the
safe and wanting to know where the tills were.

"It was terrifying and they showed no compassion."

Cheshire Police confirmed the two intruders had escaped with a "large amount of
cash."

It is hoped the club's CCTV cameras will help to identify the offenders.

Police are appealing for an yone with information to contact Northwich CID on
01244-613233.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                October 8, 2003

Terrorist attacks warning

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 220 words


Britain could be a prime target for future major terrorist attacks, an
international terrorism expert warned at an Aberdeen conference today. Professor
Paul Wilkinson of St Andrews University said the UK could be in line for
biological attacks and even suicide bombings.

Speaking after addressing a terrorism conference in Aberdeen, Prof Wilkinson,
who chairs the advisory board of the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and
Political Violence at St Andrews University, said it would be "foolish to
discount the possibility of very major attempts at attacks on the United
Kingdom".

He said the scenario of a dirty bomb attack in Britain had already been looked
at.

"We have to be prepared for the possibility," he said.

"Radioactive materials can easily be stolen.

"We know that they (terrorists) are interested in the use of dirty bombs so it's
one of the threats we have to be prepared for." He added: "Chemical and
biological materials are very easy to obtain and the methods for using them are
sadly all too easy to learn about.

"You can just plug into the Internet and you can find recipes for making these
weapons - it's a sad fact." Prof Wilkinson said that terrorist organisations
such as al Qaida were sophisticated organisations with the resources to try to
locate security weaknesses.


LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2003 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           October 8, 2003, Wednesday

INTERNATIONAL NEWS: AMERICAN NUCLEAR LABS FAIL IN MOCK TERRORISTS ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 476 words

HIGHLIGHT: POTENTIALLY LETHAL: radioactive material kept at nuclear plants


SECURITY at America's nuclear weapons labs is so lax that the buildings have
repeatedly failed drills in which mock terrorists captured radioactive material
and escaped, according to an article in Vanity Fair magazine.

"Some of the facilities would fail year after year," said Rich Levernier, who
spent six years running war games for the US government until he lost his
security clearance in 2001.

"In more than 50 per cent of our tests at the Los Alamos facility, we got in,
captured the plutonium, got out again, and in some cases didn't fire a shot,
because we didn't encounter any guards."

These failures occurred despite the fact the security forces at the Los Alamos
National Laboratories and other nuclear facilities knew the dates of the drills
months in advance, according to the story in next month's Vanity Fair.

The report says Levernier, a 22-year veteran of the US Department of Energy, was
stripped of his security clearance - effectively removing him from his job -
after he faxed an unclassified document to The Washington Post.

Levernier has filed a Whistleblower Protection Act lawsuit against the
department arguing that he was illegally removed from his duties.

Anson Franklin, a spokesman for the National Nuclear Security Administration, an
arm of the DOE that oversees nuclear weapons security, told the magazine he
could not comment on the allegations because the lawsuit was pending. But
Franklin denied nuclear weapons facilities were vulnerable to attack.

"The impression has been given that these tests are staged like football games,
with winners and losers," he said. "But the whole idea of these exercises is to
test for weaknesses - we want to find them before any adversaries could - and
then make adjustments."

The report said a second whistleblower, Chris Steele, formerly the DOE's senior
safety official at Los Alamos, sounded an alarm after he received an October
2002 safety report for the Radioactive Liquid Waste Treatment Facility at Los
Alamos.

Lab officials had analysed various scenarios, including a plane crashing into
the radioactive waste, and concluded that although such a crash would cause
hundreds of thousands of gallons of nuclear waste to catch fire, the fire would
be put out by the facility's roof-sprinkler system.

"That must be a magical sprinkler system," Steele told the magazine, "since it's
apparently able to rise up from the rubble, turn itself on, and put out the
flames."

Steele also discovered and closed a secret nuclear-waste dump at Los Alamos
where contaminated gloves, rags and similar items were being illegally stored,
the article said.

Steele lost his clearance on the ground that he was a security risk after he
rejected the "magical sprinkler" plan, but he regained it this past March and
has returned to work, the article said.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Century Newspapers Limited

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                October 8, 2003

Attack terror may drive me out of my own shop

BYLINE: By John Kerr

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 345 words


A BRAVE newsagent today said he may give up his

business after thugs left him with a fractured skull.

Mohammed Ibrahim, 64, was back behind the counter of his Glasgow shop just 48
hours after he was viciously assaulted with a golf club by a gang who tried to
rob his shop.

Today the Knightswood shop owner admitted: "It was very frightening and I will
have to give serious thought to closing down my store as I couldn't go through
that again."

His comments came as the latest Scottish Retail Crime Survey today revealed
there were 467,000 thefts in Scotland last year 16 for every shop.

Mr Ibrahim's daughter Naveed, 28, told the Evening Times on Monday how her dad
was bludgeoned so hard that the weapon broke.

However, yesterday he was back at the News Rack store he has run for 18 years.

Mr Ibrahim was treated at the Southern General Hospital after the attack in the
Archerhill Road store around 7am on Sunday.

As he spoke to well-wishing customers about the horror he faced, Mr Ibrahim's
said there was no way he was going to let anyone steal from his shop.

He added: "There were three of them. Two, also armed with golf clubs, were
outside the shop. The third one came in and caught me by surprise.

"He whacked me on the head so hard the club snapped but he had another one and
he started hitting me with that. I grabbed a hold of it and we struggled. He
shouted on the other two but they just smashed a window and ran off.

"He tried to get behind the counter but I managed to stop him and he got
nothing. I was just protecting my property.

"The shop is my life but this has been a terrible experience and I think I'll
have to give it up.

"I hope someone has information they can give police."

Detectives at Partick police station are appealing for information about the
crime.

Last month salesman Brian Adamson, 32, was left fighting for his life after
being clubbed with a golf iron during a raid at World of Golf driving range,
Dumchapel, Glasgow.

He is now recovering.

john.kerr@eveningtimes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 09, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TERROR: brave Mohammed is back behind his shop counter Picture: Marc
Turner

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                October 8, 2003

Rider in dog attack terror

SECTION: News; 999; Theft; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 325 words


The three youths chanted "bite, bite, bite" as 20-year-old Stephen Butter lay
face down on the ground.  PC Amanda Lester, based at Beeston, said: "He didn't
have any bites on him but he was absolutely petrified." Stephen was attacked
while mountain biking at the Hemlock Stone recreation ground in Stapleford with
a group of friends.

One of the gang came running out of the bushes and another three approached him
as he wheeled his £3,000 bike back up the hill.

The robber demanded the bike after grabbing the handlebars. After getting
Stephen in a headlock and wrestling him to the ground, the youths kicked and
punched him.

He said: "The dog was a vicious thing. They set him on me. He tore my bike
saddle to shreds and my helmet. I had a full face helmet so that probably
protected me." All the time Stephen clung on to the bike, refusing to give it
up, and the gang escaped empty-handed.

Stephen said: "I had a sore neck and shoulder but I got away very lightly.

"I was very very shaken up. I doubt I'll go back there again, there are plenty
of other places to ride." The incident happened around 3pm on Sunday.

The area is popular at the weekend with cyclists and walkers and some of them
reported seeing the youths hanging around before the attack.

A member of the public on a guided tour and story-telling event at the Hemlock
Stone, dialled the police on her mobile phone.

Linda Whitt said: "I felt so sorry for them. They said they were never coming
here again. I felt ashamed." PC Lester warned the public to be on their guard,
especially if they have bikes.

Police are hunting four black youths. The ringleader was 17, 5ft 6in and wore a
beige padded jacket with the brand name Sean John in orange letters.

The dog had a distinctive harness with reflective yellow stripes.

Anyone with information is asked to contact Beeston response on 9430999 ext 5647
or the Carlton local intelligence officer ext 6640.


LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2003 Nottingham Evening Post

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           October 9, 2003, Thursday

11 ARE KILLED IN TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 109 words


TWO terrorist attacks in the Iraqicapital,Baghdad, today left at least 11 people
dead,including a Spanish military attache who was assassinated.

A suicide car bomber hit a police station in the north-east of the city,killing
10 people including the bomber.

Shortly afterwards, the Spanish attache was shot dead outside his home by men,
including one disguised as a Shi'itecleric. Three policemen and five civilians
were killed by the car bomb in addition to the attacker.

The car was a white Oldsmobile. The driver drove through the police compound
gate, was fired at by officers then detonated the bomb. There were at least
28injured.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 9, 2003

UK TERROR ATTACK 'IS LOOMING'

LENGTH: 117 words


    A LEADING Scots terror expert yesterday claimed that Britain will face a
chemical attack "sooner or later".

    Professor of International Relations Paul Wilkinson said the UK was a top 10
target for al-Qaida because of our role in the Iraq war.

    He told a terrorism conference in Aberdeen: "There is more danger of a
terrorist threat than ever before and we'll face a biological or chemical attack
sooner or later.

    "Terrorists could attack any place, any time."

    Prof Wilkinson said he still believed there was a real possibilty of a
'dirty bomb' being dropped in the UK.

    He added: "Al-Qaida have been boasting about attacking us with a dirty bomb
and we should believe them."


LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            October 10, 2003, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS LEAVE 11 DEAD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 50 words


Two terror attacks in the Iraqi capital Baghdad yesterday left at least 11
people dead. A suicide driver hit the gates of a police station in Baghdad's
biggest Shi'ite Muslim slum and detonated his car bomb in the courtyard, killing
eight policemen and civilians and injuring up to 45 people.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            October 10, 2003, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS LEAVE 11 DEAD IN BAGHDAD

BYLINE: MICHAEL BRYANT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 523 words


Two terror attacks in the Iraqi capital Baghdad yesterday left at least 11
people dead including a Spanish military attache who was assassinated.

And an American soldier was killed in an ambush 30 miles from the city.

A suicide driver roared through the gates of a police station in Baghdad's
biggest Shi'ite Muslim slum and detonated his car bomb in the courtyard, killing
eight policemen and civilians and injuring up to 45 people.

The driver and a passenger also were killed.

It was the latest in a string of bombings that have rocked Iraq since August,
and like the others no one claimed responsibility for the attack.

Some 50 officers had gathered outside in the compound to collect their pay when
the white Oldsmobile sped up, police opened fire on it, the bomber crashed into
a parked vehicle, and the car exploded, police said.

'I ran and got hit in the leg. When I looked back, all I could see was fire,'
officer Khalid Sattar Jabar, aged 25, said from his hospital bed. He said he got
a look at the driver -a man with a beard and a thick head of hair.

Mangled police cars were scattered around the bomb site and debris filled the
big courtyard in front of the one-storey police building. The blast left a
crater about ten feet across and four feet deep.

Three policemen and five civilians were killed, said US army Captain Sean
Kirley. In addition, two people in the car died, said Iraqi police Captain
Bassem Sami.

Ambulances ferried wounded through the jammed traffic in the vast slum, formerly
known as Saddam City but renamed Sadr City, after an assassinated Shiite cleric,
following the overthrow of Saddam Hussein.

The plague of post-war violence flared elsewhere in the capital where a Spanish
military attache was shot dead after four men, one dressed as a Shi'ite Muslin
cleric, knocked on his door.

A school guard opposite the diplomat's home said the men tried to drag him out
of his house. He escaped, tried to run away and was shot in the head. The
diplomat died at the scene.

The Spanish Foreign Ministry identified the dead man as Jose Antonio Bernal
Gomez, an air force sergeant attached to Spain's National Intelligence Centre.

Angry residents thronged the area around the police station after the bombing,
and scores of US soldiers surrounded the building in Humvees.

An Iraqi policeman who pushed through the thousands-strong crowd was stabbed in
the upper right arm after being set upon by the mob, which chanted 'No, no to
America!'

An American soldier was killed in a rocket-propelled grenade attack on a convoy
north-east of Baghdad yesterday.

US Central Command said the infantryman died from wounds received in the attack
in Baqouba, 30 miles from the Iraqi capital.

In another development the US revealed they captured a highranking official in
the former Republican Guard in a raid near the Syrian border. More than 110
other suspects were also held.

'The major general they captured was reported to have links with Saddam Hussein
and was a financier of anti-coalition activities, according to intelligence
sources,' a spokeswoman said.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            October 10, 2003, Friday

12 DIE IN IRAQ TERROR ATTACKS;
 POLICEMEN TARGETED BY SUICIDE BOMBERS

BYLINE: ED JAMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 262 words


TWO terror attacks in the Iraqi capital Baghdad yesterday left at least 11
people dead including a Spanish military attache who was assassinated.

And an American soldier was killed in an ambush 30 miles from the city.

A suicide driver roared through the gates of a police station in Baghdad's
biggest Shiite Muslim slum and detonated his car bomb in the courtyard, killing
eight policemen and civilians and injuring up to 45 people.

It was the latest in a string of bombings that have rocked Iraq since August,and
like the others no one claimed responsibility for the attack.

Some 50 officers had gathered outside in the compound to collect their pay when
the white Oldsmobile sped up. Police opened fire on it, the bomber crashed into
a parked vehicle,and the car exploded.

"I ran and got hit in the leg. When I looked back, all I could see was
fire,"officer Khalid Sattar Jabar, 25, said from his hospital bed.

Mangled police cars were scattered around the bomb site and debris filled the
big courtyard in front of the one-story police building.

Three policemen and five civilians were killed, said US army Captain Sean
Kirley. Two people in the car died. The plague of post-war violence flared
elsewhere in the capital where a Spanish military attache was shot dead after
four men,one dressed as a Shiite Muslim cleric, knocked on his door.

In another development the US revealed they captured a high ranking official in
the former Republican Guard in a raid near the Syrian border.

More than 110 other suspects were also held.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            October 10, 2003, Friday

12 DIE IN BAGHDAD TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 165 words


TERROR attacks claimed at least 12 lives in Iraq yesterday, including a Spanish
defence attache who was assassinated by gunmen who chased him down a Baghdad
street.

President George Bush insisted that the US will not run from the challenge in
Iraq.

The major loss of life came at a police station in Baghdad's biggest Shiite
Muslim slum.

A suicide driver roared through the gates and detonated his car bomb in the
courtyard, killing eight policemen and civilians and injuring up to 45 people.
The driver and a passenger also werekilled.

Earlier,a US soldier died in an ambush north of the capital.

The police station attack was the latest in a string of bombings that have
rocked Iraq since August, and like the others, no one claimed responsibility for
the attack.

Around 50 officers had gathered outside to collect their pay when the white
Oldsmobile sped up. Police opened fire, the bomber crashed into a parked
vehicle, and the car exploded, police said.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 10, 2003

Iraqi terror attacks claim 12 more lives

BYLINE: Ian Thomas

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 560 words


Terror attacks claimed at least 12 lives in Iraq yesterday, including a Spanish
defence attache who was assassinated by gunmen who chased him down a Baghdad
street.  But President George Bush insisted that the US would not run from the
challenge in Iraq. "Americans are not the running kind," he said.

The major loss of life came at a police station in Baghdad's biggest Shi'ite
Muslim slum.  A suicide driver roared through the gates and detonated a car bomb
in the courtyard, killing eight policemen and civilians and injuring up to 45
people. The driver and a passenger were killed.

Earlier, a US soldier died in an ambush north of the capital.

The police station attack was the latest in a string of bombings to have rocked
Iraq since August and, like the others, no one claimed responsibility.

Some 50 officers had gathered outside in the compound to collect their pay when
the white Oldsmobile sped up. Police opened fire, the bomber crashed into a
parked vehicle, and the car exploded, police said.

"I ran and got hit in the leg. When I looked back, all I could see was fire,"
officer Khalid Sattar Jabar, 25, said from his hospital bed. He said he got a
look at the driver: a man with a beard and a thick head of hair.

Mangled police cars were scattered around the bomb site and debris filled the
big courtyard in front of the one-storey police building. The blast left a
crater about ten feet across and four feet deep, said a US army officer at he
scene.

Ambulances ferried wounded through the jammed traffic of the vast Baghdad slum,
formerly known as Saddam City but renamed Sadr City, after an assassinated
Shi'ite cleric, following the downfall of Saddam Hussein.

Angry residents thronged the area around the police station after the bombing,
and scores of US soldiers surrounded the building in Humvees.

An Iraqi policeman who pushed through the thousands-strong crowd was stabbed in
the upper right arm after being set upon by the mob, which chanted "No, no to
America!" A nearby mosque, meanwhile, blared warnings for people to leave the
area for fear of a second booby-trapped car.

A police sergeant who was wounded in the legs, Saad Drawal al-Dharaji, 29, said
a local imam had threatened action against the police station unless it turned
over some policemen for "punishment" for serving under Saddam. "We will have our
revenge for this," al-Dharaji said.

A fellow sergeant, Jassim Mohsen, 31, confirmed that duty officers earlier this
week recorded the threats, made in both last Friday's sermon and in letters to
the police.

The plague of post-war violence flared elsewhere in the city. Spanish military
attache Jose Antonio Bernal Gomez was shot dead after four men, one dressed as a
Shi'ite Muslin cleric, knocked on his door and tried to drag him out of his
house.

He escaped and ran down the street dressed only in his underpants, but was shot
in the head after about 50 yards, dying at the scene.

The Spanish Foreign Ministry said Gomez was an air force sergeant attached to
Spain's National Intelligence Centre.

President Bush yesterday likened the task to rebuilding Germany and Japan after
the Second World War. Speaking to a military audience in Portsmouth, New
Hampshire, he cautioned Americans against complacency, warning that the danger
of terrorism "has not passed".


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2003 Western Morning News

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            October 10, 2003, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS LEAVE 12 DEAD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 120 words


TERROR attacks claimed at least 12 lives in Iraq yesterday including a Spanish
defence attache who was assassinated by gunmen who chased him down a Baghdad
street.

President George Bush insisted that the US will not run from the challenge in
Iraq.

'Americans are not the running kind,' he said.

The major loss of life came at a police station in Baghdad's biggest Shi'ite
Muslim slum.

A suicide driver roared through the gates and detonated his car bomb in the
courtyard, killing eight policemen and civilians and injuring up to 45 people.
The driver and a passenger also were killed.

Earlier, a US soldier died in an ambush north of the capital.

No one claimed responsibility for the attack.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           October 11, 2003, Saturday

I DIDNT ORDER TERROR ATTACKS, SAYS SHOUKRI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 124 words

HIGHLIGHT: JAIL: Andre Shoukri


JAILED UDA boss Andre Shoukri yesterday denied claims that he directed a number
of sectarian attacks from his jail cell.

Rumours had been rife that the north Belfast man was involved behind the scenes
in recent tit-for-tat violence in the area he used to control.

Shoukri, who is serving a six-year sentence in Maghaberry for firearms offence,
called for the attacks to stop.

He said: aaI personally condemn attacks on both sides of the divide in north
Belfast.

If it means something to those orchestrating the attacks, I would call on them
to stop.

Shoukri said he did not want to be drawn into a aacircus of condemnation, as he
fears he would then be assumed to support any incidents he does not speak out
against.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Century Newspapers Limited

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 13, 2003

JEWS ON ALERT FOR TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 80 words


POLICE have warned Jews they face an imminent terrorist threat while American
officials are considering telling those travelling to Britain to be on the alert
for attacks on synagogues and community centres.

Police are reported to have questioned Iranian "tourists" who were covertly
taking video pictures of Jewish community buildings in London. However Scotland
Yard said there was currently no intelligence that led it to believe there were
specific threats in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 13, 2003

LEADER AS ANOTHER TERRORIST BOMB ATTACK ROCKS BAGHDAD, WE ASK . . .; WILL WE
EVER SOLVE THE CHAOS IN IRAQ?

BYLINE: JOHN KAMPFNER

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 812 words


ASUICIDE bomber tries to ram his car through a roadblock protecting a hotel. He
is fired upon but not before the terrorist detonates his explosives. At least
six Iraqis die and 10 are wounded. A tragedy - but just another day in the new
Baghdad.

Not far away lies the spot where Saddam Hussein's statue was pulled down. That
was in April but nobody is celebrating now. Six months after the "victory" of
the US and British forces, six months after the toppling of the old evil regime,
Iraq is an utter mess.

The basic amenities, such as electricity and clean water, barely function. Very
few people have a job. A new democratic political system is a matter of theory
rather than practice. And, most important of all, many people are scared to walk
the streets.

One can hardly blame them. There have been five major terrorist attacks since
August. One member of the Iraqi Governing Council, the provisional government,
has been murdered. American soldiers, trained in combat rather than the much
more delicate task of peacekeeping, concentrate on their own security above all
else. The international agencies on which any viable reconstruction would depend
- the United Nations and the many non-governmental organisations or charities -
have sent most of their experts away for fear of their lives.

Is it any wonder that many Iraqis see the Americans as a malign invading force?
Most do not long for a return to the days of Saddam, when countless individuals
disappeared in the night after a visit from the secret police.

Their mass graves are gradually being uncovered. Iraqis might have not wanted
the war in the first place but they were relieved to see the dictatorship
removed. They assumed the Americans would quickly restore basic amenities, keep
a limited presence, bring in the UN and withdraw. It hasn't happened that way
and progress is painfully slow.

In Britain, we are all well aware of the damage that the war has done to Tony
Blair.

Those weapons of mass destruction, cited by the Prime Minister as his reason for
invading, are nowhere to be seen. Public opinion is sceptical. The Labour Party
is split down the middle. Britain's pulling power in Europe and in the rest of
the world is not what it was. And the Prime Minister's trust ratings have been
severely dented as he and his ministers await with trepidation the findings of
Lord Hutton after his dramatic inquiry.

After initially riding on a patriotic wave, George W Bush has problems that are
now, if anything worse, than Blair's. He faces an election next year and for the
first time looks distinctly vulnerable. It is no longer taboo in America to
criticise the war and its aftermath.

The President has reorganised the whole Iraqi reconstruction effort in a
desperate attempt to speed things up. He has gone cap in hand to Congress to ask
for a staggering GBP 60billion in emergency spending for Iraq.

With more than 100 US service personnel killed since May, since the end of the
war itself, misgivings about Iraq have reached small-town America. Recent polls
show an increasing number of Americans questioning whether the war was worth the
bother.

American and British officials try to argue that things are not as bad as they
seem.

They point to children going back to schools, to hospitals being stocked with
medicines after a decade of sanctions, to the beginnings of a flourishing and
independent press. They are not wrong but the results so far fall way short of
everyone's expectations - ours and the Iraqis' themselves.

THE biggest irony of all is that before the war, British intelligence scoffed at
the Americans' claim of a link between Saddam and the international terrorists
who blew up the Twin Towers in New York on September 11, 2001. Now, thanks to
the security vacuum in Iraq, it seems that al-Qaeda and international terrorist
groups have converged on the country and are helping coordinate the increasingly
professional attacks on anyone trying to rebuild the country. That includes US
military and civilians, the UN, and Iraqis who are working with the occupying
powers - those same people who were targeted yesterday in the hotel.

Far from entrenching democracy, from projecting Iraq as a beacon of democracy in
a sea of Middle East despotism, the Americans seem inadvertently to have turned
it into a hotbed of terrorism.

It is early days yet. Things could still - must still - improve. For that to
happen, the Bush administration has to abandon its arrogant posturing, admit its
mistakes, bring in the United Nations and a proper peacekeeping force and hand
over power as soon as feasible.

So far, though, Iraq stands as a model of how an attempt to reconstruct a
foreign country has been badly botched.

John Kampfner, political editor of The New Statesman, is author of Blair's Wars,
published by Simon & Schuster.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           October 14, 2003, Tuesday

TWO MORE US SOLDIERS KILLED IN TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14,15

LENGTH: 453 words

HIGHLIGHT: CAUTION: British soldiers arrive to seal off the area after an
explosion occurred as one of their vehicles was on the outskirts of Basra,
southern Iraq


TWO more American soldiers were killed and three were wounded in two incidents
in northern Iraq, the US military said.

One soldier was killed and two were wounded in a rocket-propelled grenade attack
while they were on patrol in Saddam Hussein's hometown Tikrit.

A US soldier was killed on Sunday in a land mine explosion in Beiji and a second
was slightly wounded, the military reported.

The soldiers in the Beiji incident were on a patrol when their vehicle struck a
land mine, said Captain Craig Childs of the 1st Battalion 22nd Infantry
Regiment.

The death brings to 96 the number of US soldiers known to have been killed in
hostile action since May 1 when US President George Bush declared major combat
over.

Four British soldiers were also injured yesterday in two separate explosions in
the southern Iraqi city of Basra, the British military said.

British military spokesman Captain Hisham Halawi said the two incidents in Basra
were under investigation but would provide no further details.

According to local residents, the first explosion occurred as a vehicle was
passing near a petrol station on the outskirts of Basra. One soldier was hurt.

The three others were slightly injured in a second explosion, which occurred an
hour later near a British military camp, Halawi said without elaboration.

Iraq yesterday appealed for support from Muslim nations and urged them to accept
that the US-led occupation forces would remain for a while, but received a cool
response to requests for peacekeeping troops forces and money.

Hoshyar Zebari, foreign minister of the US-picked Iraqi Governing Council, told
reporters that he had unsuccessfully asked countries attending a summit of the
Organisation of the Islamic Conference in Malaysia to contribute Muslim forces
to help bring security under control.

"I don't think there is any desire by the Muslim countries to send troops,"
Zebari said.

Ayad Alawi, currently head of the council's rotating leadership, said that the
council expected Islamic countries to stand firmly behind it "during this
difficult period."

Alawi told the Malaysian news agency, Bernama, that the council sought full
Iraqi sovereignty "as soon as possible," but cautioned that it will not happen
"without a firm and positive attitude from the international community."

"We would like the Islamic countries to assist us to move forward and for Iraq
to have democracy and stability," Alawi said.

At the outset of the weeklong meetings, senior officials from the 57 members of
the OIC - the world's biggest Islamic organisation - urged the "eviction" of US
troops from Iraq, something Zebari said would not happen in the near future.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Century Newspapers Limited

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           October 14, 2003, Tuesday

SADDAM BEHIND TERROR ATTACKS'

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 203 words


SADDAM Hussein has been hiding in his home town of Tikrit and is believed to be
exerting influence within the resistance that has been killing American soldiers
at a rate of nearly one every two days, a US officer said yesterday.

American casualties continued, with one soldier killed yesterday and two wounded
when attackers fired a rocket-propelled grenade at their patrol in Tikrit.

A second soldier was killed and another wounded when their vehicle struck a land
mine in Beiji, 120 miles north of Baghdad.

Four British soldiers were slightly injured in two separate explosions in the
southern Iraqi city of Basra, according to the British military.

Meanwhile, US- led coalition officials said they hadmadearrests after a suicide
car bombing that shook central Baghdadon Sunday,killing at least six bystanders
and wounding dozens of others. US troops have been struggling to put down an
insurgent campaign that has targeted American forces and has increasingly turned
to using dramatic suicide attacks,disrupting efforts at rebuilding Iraq.

A senior American officer in Tikrit said that Saddam probably had a "strong
influence" on anti-US guerrilla attacks in the area around the city.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          October 15, 2003, Wednesday

SON OF BIN LADEN DIRECTING TERROR ATTACKS FROM IRAN'

BYLINE: ANDREW BUNCOMBE, PHIL REEVES AND ANGUS MCDOWALL Osama bin Laden: Son
being touted as stand-in

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 404 words


SA'AD BIN LADEN, one of the al-Qa'ida leader's 23 children, is a senior figure
in the terror network and has directed a number of attacks from Iran where he
has been given refuge by religious hardliners, according to US intelligence. The
attacks are believed to include the bombing in May of Westerners' housing
compounds in Saudi Arabia which killed 35 people.

In the past year, Sa'ad - who is in his mid-20s, speaks English and is computer
literate - has increasingly become a focus of the CIA, FBI and others trying to
disrupt the al- Qa'ida network. Some experts believe he is being groomed to take
over from his father. "Sa'ad is touted as his father's stand-in," said Kenneth
Katzman, a terrorism analyst with the Washington-based Congressional Research
Service. "Because his father is incommunicado, a lot of people are looking to
Sa'ad to give instructions."

The US and Saudi authorities believe that for almost a year Sa'ad has been
operating from Iran, where he has been given refuge by an elite security force
loyal to the nation's conservative clerics and known as the Jerusalem Force. The
force is also said to be giving refuge to a number of other senior al-Qa'ida
figures, including Saif al-Adel, accused of being chief of military operations,
and Abdullah Ahmed Abdullah, the chief financial operative.

Iran has issued various conflicting reports, saying that it is "holding" certain
suspected al-Qa'ida figures, without giving details. But earlier this year
Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the Saudi ambassador to the US, accused Iran of
refusing to co-operate with those hunting al-Qa'ida.

Given suspicions about Iran's nuclear ambitions and America's inclusion of the
country in the "axis of evil", there are those who have expressed concern about
the timing of the claim linking Tehran and Bin Laden's son. The allegation was
reported prominently yesterday in The Washington Post.

Others say Iran is using the al-Qa'ida operatives as leverage in its efforts to
force the US to close the Iraqi training camps of the Mujahedin Khalq, an
Iranian guerrilla force armed by Saddam Hussein and trying to undermine the
Iranian authorities.

Dr John Calabrese, an analyst with the Middle East Institute, said President
Mohammad Khatami had only limited power. "If these people are in Iran they are
probably being given refuge by people Khatami does not really have any hold
over," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          October 15, 2003, Wednesday

BIN LADEN'S SON LEADING TERROR ATTACKS FROM IRAN'

BYLINE: ANDREW BUNCOMBE, PHIL REEVES AND ANGUS MCDOWALL

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 162 words


SA'AD BIN LADEN, one of the al-Qa'ida leader's 23 children, is a senior figure
in the terror network and has directed a number of attacks from Iran where he
has been given refuge by religious hardliners, according to US intelligence.

The attacks are believed to include the bombing in May of Westerners' housing
compounds in Saudi Arabia which killed 35 people.

Some experts believe Sa'ad, who is in his mid-20s, is being groomed to take over
from his father. "Sa'ad is touted as his father's stand-in," said Kenneth
Katzman, a terrorism analyst with the Washington- based Congressional Research
Service. "Because his father is incommunicado, a lot of people are looking to
Sa'ad to give instructions."

Dr John Calabrese, an analyst with the Middle East Institute, said President
Mohammad Khatami had only limited power. "If these people are in Iran they are
probably being given refuge by people Khatami does not really have any hold
over," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           October 16, 2003, Thursday

JEN BOMB TERROR;
 ATTACK NO 2 ON STAR'S HOME

BYLINE: Paul Byrne

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 339 words


BOMB disposal experts were called in after a second attack on pop star Jennifer
Ellison's home.

An army team raced to her house yesterday following an explosion.

It comes just weeks after bullets were fired at the former Brookside beauty's
property.

Now, the busty blonde is living in fear.

Her four-bedroom house in Liverpool was left scorched after the latest incident.

Police believe a powerful firework was aimed at the pounds 150,000 red-brick
semi.

But the bomb disposal team were sent for after an eight-inch-long metal casing
was spotted underneath a neighbour's car.

Jennifer's boyfriend, Tony Richardson, is believed to be at the centre of a
gangland feud after helping police investigating an attack on one of his pals.

Her taxi driver dad, Peter, and mother, Jane, have been looking after her home
while she stays in London pursuing her pop career.

A neighbour said: "I was wakened around 2.30 am by two huge bangs. I thought
there had been another gun attack.

"This is starting to get really worrying. It was only last month the house was
shot at.

"I don't know what they have got themselves involved in. They seemed like a
lovely couple when they moved in.

"This is a quiet street with nice families. But we've had a shooting and the
Army bomb disposal squad here.

"There was such a commotion in the street, it was awful.

"Jenny is a sweet girl and always stops to say hello' when she is at home. She
is a big star now but to us she is still the girl next door.

"We can't understand how she's got involved with this."

A police spokesman said: "Two fireworks were fired at 2.30 am, one towards Miss
Ellison's house and one at a car in the street.

"There is some damage to the porch on the house."

Tony, 24, was jailed for three months for driving offences two years ago.

Jennifer, 20, played teenage tearaway Emily Shadwick in the Channel 4 soap
Brookside.

The former dancer is a former girlfriend of Liverpool and England footballer
Steven Gerrard.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCARE: The door to the pounds 150,000 home was damaged; TARGET:; Jenny
was in London yesterday

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2003 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Peterborough Evening Telegraph

                                October 16, 2003

ATTACK: Schoolboy tells of terror beating

LENGTH: 511 words


A TEENAGE boy today spoke of his terror when he was beaten unconscious by a gang
of thugs. Adnan Asad (15) was walking home from school when he was set upon by
the gang, who repeatedly punched him in the face until he blacked out and fell
to the ground. Today, his mother, Nasreen, said the family was staying with
relatives and may never return home. It was the first time that Adnan, a pupil
at Jack Hunt School, in Ledbury Road, Netherton, had walked back home to
Ravensthorpe after school. Usually, his parents took and fetched him by car. But
on Monday, Adnan decided to walk with his friends. Struggling to talk properly
because his lips are so swollen from the attack, he said: "I said goodbye to my
friends and was walking down Raleigh Way on my own when I saw a group of kids
staring at me.They were trying to creep me out. "I kept my head down and walked
on, but then two boys walked out of a shop and went over to the kids to speak to
them. One of the boys shouted racist abuse and I said I didn't want any
trouble".

 He said the youth, who was aged between 16 and 19, and bigger than him, came up
close to him and started asking for a fight, but when Adnan refused, he punched
him in the face. He continued to punch Adnan, who is 5ft 5ins, about four times
in the face, while another youth struck Adnan on the back of his head. Adnan
said: "I blacked out. I can't remember falling on the ground. But when I came
to, I was lying on the street with my eyes closed up and they'd gone".

 Luckily, Adnan's cousins lived in the same street, so he managed to stagger to
their home and rang his mother. Mrs Asad said she took Adnan to Peterborough
District Hospital, where he was told his nose may be broken and he may need a
skin graft on his lip, but at the time, his face was too swollen to do anything.
Adnan said he was now too frightened to leave the house. Mrs Asad added: "We
have lived in this area for 15 years and although we have sometimes faced verbal
racist abuse, nothing like this has ever happened before. I am so angry. We left
the day he was attacked, and I don't think we'll go back home because we don't
feel safe there any more".

 Police say it's vital to catch brutal thug Police are appealing for witnesses
to the attack, which happened outside the shops in Raleigh Way, Ravensthorpe, at
3.40pm on Monday. The youth who attacked Adnan is described as white, 5ft 6ins,
of slim to medium build, and wearing a Burberry cap, blue top and white jogging
bottoms. He had a pale face and blond eyebrows. Four or five other youths were
with him, and one could have been a girl aged between 14 and 18. Iain Allan, of
Thorpe Wood police station, said: "This was a particularly brutal attack on the
young lad. He was knocked unconscious by the viciousness of the blows. It's
vital we catch this thug".

 ? If anyone has any information, they are urged to call 01733 563232.
Cambridgeshire Police Crimestoppers Cambridgeshire Police - Operation Target
Click here to sign our online petition to say no to yob rule in the city.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                           © 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                October 17, 2003

Rocket terror attack on home

BYLINE: nicola dowling

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 233 words


A DOWN'S Syndrome boy and his family have been targeted by youths who fired
super-strength fireworks at their windows in a terrifying attack. A massive
rocket smashed into the kitchen window of 11-year-old Marcus Slater's home. A
second firework was let off in the doorway, sending sparks through the letter
box and into the hallway.  Marcus was left in extreme pain caused by the noise
because his ears are particularly sensitive to loud sounds as a result of his
condition.

The attack happened at the family home in Chartwell Close, Salford, as Marcus
sat in a back room with his family, including sister Amelia. Today, Marcus's mum
Janet backed the Manchester Evening News campaign calling for an all-out ban on
over-the-counter sales of fireworks to stop the menace caused in neighbourhoods.

The 50-year-old engineer, who gave up her job to look after her son, said: "The
noise was terrible. Luckily, we were in the back room and not the kitchen. I am
terrified of staying here in case there is another attack. "Afterwards I took
the firework shells to the social services and housing department to show them
that I desperately needed to be re-housed, but they said it could take a month.
I am petrified at what may happen next."

The family has lived at the address since late last year and have been targeted
a number of times with eggs and bricks thrown at the windows.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: VICTIM . . . Janet Slater with the fireworks used in the attackPicture:
MIKE GRIMES

                     Copyright 2003 Manchester Evening News

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                October 21, 2003

Aids terror in ijunkie attack

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 281 words


A BUS driver faces an agonising three-month wait to discover whether he has been
infected with the Aids virus after being stabbed with a junkie's needle.

The 44-year-old man has been badly shaken by the ordeal but has now returned to
work.

He was attacked for no reason by a man who approached as he emerged from his
First Mainline bus at the Pond Street transport interchange in Sheffield, after
driving from Rotherham.

The offender jabbed a needle into his arm and apparently injected him with an
unknown substance before making off.

He was taken to the Northern General Hospital for treatment. Diseases such as
HIV and hepatitis can take several months to incubate.

A colleague said today: It is a mystery why it happened, this guy just lunged at
him. There was no suggestion of robbery or anything like that. Some people think
it might have been a junkie who was spaced out and mistook him for a policeman,
but our uniforms are nothing like theirs, he said. The victim, who lives in
Barnsley, was driving from First's Rotherham depot.

First spokesman Brandon Jones confirmed the incident happened and said the
driver had been offered trauma counselling by the company.

This is a most serious issue that we have raised with the police and we look
forward to working with them to ascertain the identity of this person. I would
ask for any person who witnessed this deplorable attack against one of our staff
to contact South Yorkshire police, he said.

Mr Jones added they hoped to find CCTV footage which could identify the
offender.

South Yorkshire police have confirmed they are investigating although examining
CCTV tapes was a time-consuming operation.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Eastern Daily Press

                                October 22, 2003

Fears over the threat of a terrorist attack in Britain came into sharp focus in
Norwich yesterday after a suspicious yellow powder leaked from a package sent to
Norwich Union.

BYLINE: KENDRICK

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 112 words


Fears over the threat of a terrorist attack in Britain came into sharp focus in
Norwich yesterday after a suspicious yellow powder leaked from a package sent to
Norwich Union.

Emergency services and chemical incident experts descended on Surrey Street in
the city centre and 17 post room staff were put through a decontamination
process.

Amid the drama, the street was sealed off and a decontamination area set up in
the entrance to the Westlegate building running beside the company's famous
Marble Hall.

Tests later revealed that the substance was harmless and the letter, damaged in
the post, had been repackaged by postal staff.

- FULLSTORY - PAGE1

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2003

                   © Copyright 2003 Eastern Daily Press (EDP)

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                October 23, 2003

Dog bite boy relives terror attack

LENGTH: 619 words


A SCHOOLBOY has told the devastated uncle whose dog ripped his face apart: "I
don't blame you."

Eight-year-old Joshua Preston's message was revealed as he recovered at home
after spending three nights in Blackburn Royal Infirmary.

He was mauled by his relative's bull mastiff Bailey at a friend's house in
Morley Avenue Livesey Blackburn on Sunday and underwent a two-hour operation to
re-attach his nose.

Surgeons told his dad Shane a maths student at Loughborough University that his
son's face was a "real mess."

His nose had to be rebuilt "layer by layer" and a splint and packing has been
left in to ensure it keeps its shape.

It is not yet known if Joshua will be scarred but the doctors are hopeful that
his young age may aid a full recovery.

His dad revealed that despite his horrific troubles Joshua took the time to tell
his uncle that he did not blame him for what had happened. The dog has now been
destroyed.

The uncle who is very close to Joshua and sees him every day has endured abuse
from his neighbours since the attack on Sunday afternoon.

Joshua is now recovering at his mum Sarah's home in Springfield Street Darwen.

Shane who is separated from Sarah said: "There has been a lot of hostility
towards him.

"People have been coming up and saying why did he let it happen? but he wasn't
there. No one in the family blames him. One of the first things Joshua said to
him was 'It's not your fault I don't blame you'. But his uncle is in a terrible
state and blames himself."

Police have also exonerated the uncle by revealing that no action will be taken
against him.

The uncle who has refused to reveal his details said he was too upset to talk
about the incident.

According to Shane Joshua a pupil at St Paul's CE Primary School Hoddlesden
faces a psychological battle now he is physically on the mend.

He said: "He is mentioning possible scarring now. He is quite sensitive to
people looking at him.

"The bandages will come off when he is ready. We have seen him trying to look at
himself already.

"He has asked what has been done to him.

"He jokes about it a lot but is hiding a lot of stuff. At first he didn't
remember anything about it.

"Now he remembers his head in the dog's mouth but he thought he pulled the dog
off which he didn't."

The family have a Jack Russell called Spike. Shane who used to breed dogs said
Joshua had been apprehensive towards it since his release from hospital.

He added: "He has also admitted he is scared of big dogs. We just don't
understand why Bailey went for him. They got on really well.

"Joshua walked in and said 'hello Bailey' and it went for him. It got him in the
corner and clamped on his face."

Mum Sarah and her friend Simone Thompson managed to release Joshua from Bailey
and get him to hospital.

At Blackburn Royal Infirmary Joshua underwent a two-hour operation to re-attach
his nose and have bite marks stitched.

Shane said: "The surgeon said he was a real mess and that what we could see from
the outside was nothing compared to how it was on the inside.

"They said they had rebuilt his nose layer by layer. They are concerned about
infection now from the dog's saliva.

"He has been taking antibiotics and we hope they work."

Shane and Sarah have two other children Louis six and Jessica 10.

Shane added: "I will be here as long as it takes. I need to be here to guide
him. Every situation will be new for him. I don't know what will come up and I
need to be here.

"I want to be here when he goes back to school. His friends have said they won't
pick on him but children are children and they say what they think."

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 24, 2003, Friday

Saudi-funded school in Germany 'linked to terrorist attacks'

BYLINE: By Kate Connolly in Bonn

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 400 words

EXPLOSIVES and a testament like those written by suicide bombers have been found
at the home of a man linked to a Saudi-funded school, German secret service
sources claimed yesterday, intensifying pressure for the institution to be
closed.

The King Fahd Academy in Bonn was set up eight years ago with pounds 10 million
from the Saudi royal family, and was hailed as a "cultural bridge between
Germany and the Arab world".

Now it is alleged to be a magnet for Islamic fundamentalists. A spokesman for
the city of Bonn said: "According to information from intelligence sources
people have been observed at the school over the past few months who have
contact with terrorists or are themselves suspected of involvement in terrorist
attacks.

One parent of a pupil, identified only as Sayed M, 39, an Egyptian, went on
trial last month charged with plotting bomb attacks on Jewish sites in Germany.
Several houses near the school, including those of some parents, have been
raided in recent days, German intelligence said. At the home of one man linked
to the school explosives, bomb-making instructions and a statement in the style
of suicide bombers' wills were allegedly found.

The possibility of an Islamic terrorist presence is particularly sensitive in
Germany as several of the September 11 hijackers lived and plotted the attacks
unnoticed in Hamburg.

The discoveries have fuelled a simmering row between Berlin and Riyadh,
heightened when Chancellor Gerhard Schroder told his hosts during a visit to
Saudi Arabia: "This must be stopped."

Pupils, including girls in headscarves, were observed continuing with lessons in
Arabic and mathematics as normal yesterday, watched at the gates of the
gold-domed building by armed guards.

Although 40 per cent of the 500 pupils have German citizenship and will probably
spend their lives in the country, education officials are concerned that only
one to two hours a week are dedicated to learning German. Religious instruction
is given eight to nine hours. Textbooks seized last week by police and examined
by experts are alleged to have a "disturbing" content and to present a "very
narrow interpretation" of Islam.

A teacher at the school was filmed by German television calling for a holy war
"in the name of Allah" during prayers at a mosque attached to the institution.
The teacher was suspended.
[PS]News: [ES]

International:

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Life

                                October 26, 2003

Terrorised by drugs bullies;
 Boy attacked for refusing to deal in classroom

BYLINE: STEPHEN BREEN

LENGTH: 360 words


THIS is the terrified Ulster schoolboy, who was hammered by playground bullies -
because he refused to bring DRUGS into the classroom.

A cop probe is under way after east Belfast mum, Tracey Lennox, told Sunday Life
that her brave son, Dessie - who suffers from epilepsy - was attacked for
refusing to ply deadly drugs, at Knockbreda High School.

Dessie, 11, suffered internal bleeding and bruising, and had to spend two nights
at the Ulster Hospital, after he was attacked by a teenage gang.

He also underwent a series of CT scans, over fears that his stomach may have
been damaged.

Mum Tracey claims she will keep her son at home until his alleged attackers have
been suspended - or expelled - from the school.

She says she will be writing to South Eastern Education and Library Board
bosses, about the incident.

Said Tracey: "My son is the innocent person here - yet he is being denied a
basic right to education, because the bullies who attacked him are still in
school.

"He is terrified to go back, because he's frightened of what these boys will do
to him, because the police are now investigating it."

Added Tracey: "Dessie used to love school, and was doing really well.

"Now, I have to keep him at home, for his own safety.

"He is too young to know anything about drugs.

"But he knows the older pupils who attacked him are bad, and he can't go
anywhere near them."

A police spokeswoman said: "Police are investigating reports of an alleged
assault that took place in the Knockbreda area, on October 15."

The school's principal, William Gordon, refused to comment on the alleged
attack.

But he said: "The parent referred the whole incident to a further authority and,
as a result of this, the school cannot comment any further."

Castlereagh councillor, Frankie Gallagher, expressed concern for the child and
his education.

The Ulster Political Research Group councillor said: "This child should not be
denied an education.

"I hope the allegations are being thoroughly investigated by the school.

"Drugs and bullying are a major problem in our schools."

sbreen@belfasttelegraph.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                October 26, 2003

BRITISH TROOPS ARE PUT ON ALERT FOR ONSLAUGHT DURING FAST OF RAMADAN FOCUS; THE
CHILDREN OF BASRA ARE ALL SMILES BUT BOYS EXPECT A MAJOR OUR TERROR ATTACK ANY
DAY

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman WHO HAS JUST RETURNED FROM BASRA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  21

LENGTH: 792 words


BRITISH troops in Iraq have been warned they face a terror onslaught during the
Muslim holiday of Ramadan, which begins today. And Army officers in Basra have
told the Sunday Express that US Marines who have moved into southern Iraq are
making the fragile security situation more and more dangerous for British
soldiers.

Experts responsible for defusing improvised terrorist bombs say attacks are
getting more frequent and increasingly sophisticated.

When I travelled to Iraq for the first time since the war ended six months ago,
soldiers were keen to stress that the vast majority of the population are
delighted at the way their lives have improved since Saddam was ousted.

But those who are determined to rid Iraq of what they see as an occupying force
are getting more daring.

Terrorist techniques deployed against American troops around Baghdad are making
their way south to target British troops.

As the fast of Ramadan begins, troops are being told to be particularly vigilant
over its month-long duration.

One Army officer said: "We've been told things will hot up. They will
concentrate their attacks at Ramadan.

There has been an escalation of intent.

If you're a fighter you don't have to fast, so they won't stop and we won't drop
our guard."

Captain Darren Fisher, of the Royal Logistic Corps and the senior antiterrorist
bomb disposal expert in Basra, said: "It has definitely picked up.

"Unlike in Northern Ireland we are not given any telephone warnings and they are
not concerned about causing civilian casualties. The Provisional IRA are
gentlemen terrorists by comparison.

"Here they are getting more sophisticated, with people sent in to perform
clean-up operations. The Americans will attract more of them down here."

Royal Engineers search teams, working with the infantry and intelligence
officers, have uncovered several weapons caches in dawn raids on the homes of
suspects in the past month.

One cache uncovered while I was in Basra included 100 blocks of TNT, 60 yards of
safety fuse, detonators, 14 rocket-propelled grenades and Kalashnikov assault
rifles.

The arrival of a US Marine Expeditionary Unit in the past 10 days in the Al Faw
peninsula, between Basra and the port of Umm Qasr, is blamed for undoing some of
the good work performed by the British.

Captain Andrew Clarke said: "The MEU have stirred things up on the Al Faw. There
is a heightened state of warning. In the end they're there to stop smugglers,
which means that you've got to look in every nook and cranny. But it upsets the
population."

An RAF NCO said: "Any goodwill that was built up in the Al Faw is now shot to
pieces."

The British troops are critical of their trigger-happy American counterparts,
particularly their lack of security sense and attitude to the Iraqis.

ONE sapper Land Rover driver said: "Last week there was a huge traffic jam in
Basra and there was an American vehicle stuck in the middle of it. We would
never let ourselves get in that position.

"We avoid the Americans because they are always trouble. Wherever they go,
someone will take a pot-shot at them. They go around in such huge convoys that
the enemy has enough time to go and get a cup of tea and come back and attack.

"You can establish a lot of instant trust with eye contact, but they go around
wearing shades the whole time."

An Army NCO said: "They hear gunfire and they open up. Most of the time it is
just a wedding party. We don't flap about things like that. They are very edgy.
We avoid them like the plague."

The Brits themselves are beginning to make a real impact. Take a tour around
Basra in an Army Land Rover and children rush from their homes to wave and give
the thumbs-up. Motorists toot their horns.

Multinational Division South East spokeswoman Flight-Lieutenant Katherine
MacIntosh said: "Rome wasn't built in a day and it wasn't built to 21st century
standards and it wasn't built after a war.

"We have managed to give Basra 24 hours of power a week ago. We have opened 103
police stations and the first police support units have passed out of training.
We are well along with new Iraqi border protection, facilities protection and
coastal defence forces."

The troops try to avoid Az Zubayr, the nearest town to their base - it is where
Staff Sergeant Simon Cullingworth, 36, was executed during the war.

Their major problem is rampant smuggling and looting. British officials
calculate that 100 tons of copper - much of it looted from felled power lines -
is pilfered each week, along with 3,000 tons of oil tapped off smashed
pipelines.

Female sheep-smuggling is also popular, with ewes fetching GBP 700 on the black
market, but just GBP 7 for a ram.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                October 27, 2003

Man Critical After Stab Attack Terror

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 117 words


A Man was today in a critical condition after being stabbed in an Aberdeen
street.  The 35-year-old victim was knifed and badly beaten during the vicious
attack. He also suffered a number of broken bones during the incident in Torry's
Walker Lane, off Walker Road, between 6-7pm on Friday.

He was being treated in Aberdeen Royal Infirmary's intensive care unit.

Police are hunting two men in connection with the brutal assault and are
appealing for witnesses.

Detective Inspector Derek Golder, who is leading the investigation, said: "We
haven't been able to speak to the victim yet because he is still heavily
sedated. I would urge anyone who has any piece of information to get in touch."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2003 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                October 27, 2003

Sleeping pensioner's vandal attack terror

LENGTH: 374 words


ONE of Barnoldswick's most popular pensioners has been targeted by vandals who
smashed a window inches from where she was sleeping.

Katie Widdup who will be 96 on Wednesday has lived in Barlick all her life.

She receives dozens of visitors at her Walmsgate home every day and greets
residents with a wave as they pass her home.

The attack on her house the second in a year has been branded "disgusting" by
outraged locals.

Katie whose bed is next to the window at the front of her home did not call for
help after the incident which happened shortly after midnight on Friday and
spent the night huddled in an armchair until her only daughter called round the
following day.

Katie said: "When it first happened there was silence then I just heard talking.
It was so cold. I sat up in the armchair all night and couldn't go back to
sleep. It's frightening.

"We have had problems round this area with noisy people causing trouble at
night. Drink has a lot to answer for.

"I'm blessed to have a lot of friends so I'll be all right."

Community beat manager PC Mark Hyde described the incident as "terrible".

He said: "Katie is one of the most popular people in this area. Everyone knows
her and people wave at her all day long as she sits in her window.

"Whoever did this has frightened a really nice old lady who is well-liked around
here and I hope they are ashamed.

"Everybody knows who lives here and if they have done it on purpose it's
disgraceful."

Katie's home help Mary O'Callaghan who helped clear up the glass that surrounded
her bed said: "It's really upsetting. Nobody deserves that to happen but least
of all Katie. She's a lovely person." Butcher Stephen Bell whose shop is next
door to Katie's home said: "She's very popular in the community and there's
people in and out of there all day. This kind of vandalism is a real problem for
the area."

Barbara Phipps of Queen Street said she passes Katie's house two or three times
a day. She said: "Everyone always waves to her. I think it's disgusting that
this has happened. There have been a lot of problems with windows getting
smashed."

Anyone with information about the incident should call PC Hyde on 01282 472828.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          October 29, 2003, Wednesday

TRICK OR TREAT TERROR LEADS TO HEART ATTACK;
 HALLOWEEN THUGS TARGET 86-YEAR-OLD

BYLINE: CARL BUTLER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 326 words


AN 86-year-old widow was rushed to hospital with a heart attack after Halloween
trick-or-treat yobs pelted her home with eggs.

Gwenyth Welling is now afraid to return to her sheltered accommodation in
Shotton.

Now police have stepped up patrols and vowed zero tolerance with Halloween yobs.

Mrs Wellings' son-in-law, Peter Wilcock, of Sealand, said: "She was at home on
Saturday night having a bath when eggs were thrown at her bathroom and kitchen
windows.

"The kitchen window even cracked with the force of one of the eggs. It really
frightened her.

"The next day she was due to go to one of her daughters for lunch but I called
round to drop some things off. It was a good job I did because she suffered a
heart attack right in front of me.

"We feel really angry this has happened to a vulnerable pensioner.

"She's the kind of person who would hate any fuss but we wanted this to go in
the papers so that the people who did it know what harm they can cause."

Mrs Wellings is still undergoing tests at the Countess of Chester Hospital and
Mr Wilcock said she was not yet "out of the woods".

Police on Deeside are appealing for witnesses to come forward, and have plans to
visit the elderly to try to reassure them as Halloween approaches on Friday
night.

They have also been cautioning shopkeepers and asking them to be careful about
selling items like eggs and flour to youngsters.

Extra teams of officers will be patrolling the streets to respond immediately to
anyone who feels threatened by youths calling at their home.

Parents and youngsters have been warned anyone committing offences will be
arrested and dealt with.

Inspector Chris Beasley at Wrexham said: "A line has got to be drawn between
children enjoying themselves and menace. When it becomes harassment we will take
action."

Dee Valley police team are visiting schools and businesses in Llangollen to
prevent Halloween intimidation.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 29, 2003

PATRIOTISM IS NEEDED TO STOP IRAQ TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 160 words


SOone concerted series of attacks on Iraqi cities by foreign dissidents has
brought doom and gloom, probably killed 40-plus Iraqi citizens and caused a
world stir.

How long have we, in the UK, lived with almost continuous terrorist attacks? Our
telephone kiosks, our litter bins, our mailboxes are all targets - the heart of
the city of London was torn out and more than 200 people killed. The world
hardly noticed.

These citizens must be encouraged to appreciate and assume the responsibilities
of democracy and grasp this opportunity of working together to restore their
country and take their place among the free countries of the world - fighting
off those who would claw them back by any means into despotism and dictatorship.

Poster campaigns and patriotic radio and TV programmes may seem absurd at this
time, but something is desperately needed to encourage a sense of co-operation
and instil a national pride.

Arthur Butler, Derby

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 30, 2003

'Comic terrorist' Barschak guilty of paint attack

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGOWAN

SECTION: E; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 324 words


SELF-STYLED "comedy terrorist" Aaron Barschak was found guilty today of criminal
damage for throwing red paint over Turner Prize nominee Jake Chapman and one of
his artworks.

District Judge Brian Loosley called the 37-year-old a publicity seeker.

Barschak, who gatecrashed Prince William's 21st birthday party at Windsor
Castle, had denied the charge claiming he was creating a work of art with the
stunt at the Modern Art Oxford gallery.

Barschak, of Golders Green, shouted "Viva Goya" in protest at brothers Jake and
Dinos Chapman's alterations of a series of etchings by the Spanish painter,
Oxford Magistrates Court was told.

Afterwards, he claimed he would be entering photographs of the paintsplattered
walls and floor of the gallery into the Turner Prize himself.

The stand-up comedian targeted a talk on 30 May given by the artists to promote
their exhibition, The Rape of Creativity, which featured grotesquely altered
versions of Goya's series of etchings entitled Disasters of War. The court heard
how in police interviews after his arrest, he said he had " incorporated" Jake
Chapman into a work of art of his own, saying: "I painted him."

When asked why he had thrown the paint, he replied: "I would rather you say I
painted rather than I threw the paint. It's an improvement on Mr Chapman's
painting and it's an improvement on the wall as well."

He had told the arresting officer: "I have collaborated with him (Jake Chapman)
now. It is my work now, in the same way he drew on Goya. Let's just say I
improved the work he did."

He continued: "It's half performance and half a work of art. If it's the Rape of
Creativity, I was being creative.

"In the same terms as an artist putting a string around a Rodin, in the same
terms as the Chapman brothers doodled on the Goyas, I decided to paint him and
anything else that was around."

He will be sentenced next month and may face jail.

END

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                October 31, 2003

Boy 16 victim of terror attack

LENGTH: 141 words


A 16-year-old boy was the victim of a terror attack in a Bury street.

The Asian teenager was walking along Angouleme Way in Bury at 7.40pm on Tuesday
October 21

when he was approached by about 15 youths and assaulted and racially racially
abused.  As he walked past the group a number of people punched and kicked him
in the face and body.

He suffered cuts and bruising.

A Greater Manchester Police spokesperson said: "This was a terrifying attack on
a teenager who was walking home. Fortunately his injuries were not severe
although he was badly shaken and bruised during the assault.

"We need the public's help to trace the people responsible for this attack and
would urge anyone

with any information to contact Bury Police on 0161 856 8121 or contact
Crimestoppers anonymously

on 0800 555 111."

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Sunday Herald

                                November 2, 2003

Five Israelis were seen filming from the van on the right as jet liners ploughed
into the Twin Towers on September 11, 2001. Were they part of a massive spy ring
which shadowed the 9/11 hijackers and knew that al-Qaeda planned a devastating
terrorist attack on the USA?

BYLINE: By Neil Mackay

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2491 words


THERE was ruin and terror in Manhattan, but, over the Hudson River in New
Jersey, a handful of men were dancing. As the World Trade Centre burned and
crumpled, the five men celebrated and filmed the worst atrocity ever committed
on American soil as it played out before their eyes.

Who do you think they were? Palestinians? Saudis? Iraqis, even? Al-Qaeda,
surely? Wrong on all counts. They were Israelis - and at least two of them were
Israeli intelligence agents, working for Mossad, the equivalent of MI6 or the
CIA.

Their discovery and arrest that morning is a matter of indisputable fact. To
those who have investigated just what the Israelis were up to that day, the case
raises one dreadful possibility: that Israeli intelligence had been shadowing
the al-Qaeda hijackers as they moved from the Middle East through Europe and
into America where they trained as pilots and prepared to suicide -bomb the
symbolic heart of the United States. And the motive? To bind America in blood
and mutual suffering to the Israeli cause.

After the attacks on New York and Washington, the former Israeli Prime Minister,
Benjamin Netanyahu, was asked what the terrorist strikes would mean for
US-Israeli relations. He said: "It's very good." Then he corrected himself,
adding: "Well, it's not good, but it will generate immediate sympathy for Israel
from Americans ."

If Israel's closest ally felt the collective pain of mass civilian deaths at the
hands of terrorists, then Israel would have an unbreakable bond with the world's
only hyperpower and an effective free hand in dealing with the Palestinian
terrorists who had been murdering its innocent civilians as the second intifada
dragged on throughout 2001.

It's not surprising that the New Jersey housewife who first spotted the five
Israelis and their white van wants to preserve her anonymity. She's insisted
that she only be identified as Maria. A neighbour in her apartment building had
called her just after the first strike on the Twin Towers. Maria grabbed a pair
of binoculars and, like millions across the world, she watched the horror of the
day unfold.

As she gazed at the burning towers, she noticed a group of men kneeling on the
roof of a white van in her parking lot. Here's her recollection: "They seemed to
be taking a movie. They were like happy, you know ... they didn't look shocked
to me. I thought it was strange."

Maria jotted down the van's registration and called the police. The FBI was
alerted and soon there was a statewide all points bulletin put out for the
apprehension of the van and its occupants. The cops traced the number,
establishing that it belonged to a company called Urban Moving.

Police Chief John Schmidig said: "We got an alert to be on the lookout for a
white Chevrolet van with New Jersey registration and writing on the side. Three
individuals were seen celebrating in Liberty State Park after the impact. They
said three people were jumping up and down."

By 4pm on the afternoon of September 11, the van was spotted near New Jersey's
Giants stadium. A squad car pulled it over and inside were five men in their
20s. They were hustled out of the car with guns levelled at their heads and
handcuffed.

In the car was $ 4700 in cash, a couple of foreign passports and a pair of box
cutters - the concealed Stanley Knife-type blades used by the 19 hijackers who'd
flown jetliners into the World Trade Centre and Pentagon just hours before.
There were also fresh pictures of the men standing with the smouldering wreckage
of the Twin Towers in the background. One image showed a hand flicking a lighter
in front of the devastated buildings, like a fan at a pop concert. The driver of
the van then told the arresting officers: "We are Israeli. We are not your
problem. Your problems are our problems. The Palestinians are the problem."

His name was Sivan Kurzberg. The other four passengers were Kurzberg's brother
Paul, Yaron Shmuel, Oded Ellner and Omer Marmari. The men were dragged off to
prison and transferred out of the custody of the FBI's Criminal Division and
into the hands of their Foreign Counterintelligence Section - the bureau's anti
-espionage squad.

A warrant was issued for a search of the Urban Moving premises in Weehawken in
New Jersey. Boxes of papers and computers were removed. The FBI questioned the
firm's Israeli owner, Dominik Otto Suter, but when agents returned to re
-interview him a few days later, he was gone. An employee of Urban Moving said
his co-workers had laughed about the Manhattan attacks the day they happened. "I
was in tears," the man said. "These guys were joking and that bothered me. These
guys were like, 'Now America knows what we go through."'

Vince Cannistraro, former chief of operations for counter-terrorism with the
CIA, says the red flag went up among investigators when it was discovered that
some of the Israelis' names were found in a search of the national intelligence
database. Cannistraro says many in the US intelligence community believed that
some of the Israelis were working for Mossad and there was speculation over
whether Urban Moving had been "set up or exploited for the purpose of launching
an intelligence operation against radical Islamists".

This makes it clear that there was no suggestion whatsoever from within American
intelligence that the Israelis were colluding with the 9/11 hijackers - simply
that the possibility remains that they knew the attacks were going to happen,
but effectively did nothing to help stop them.

After the owner vanished, the offices of Urban Moving looked as if they'd been
closed down in a big hurry. Mobile phones were littered about, the office phones
were still connected and the property of at least a dozen clients were stacked
up in the warehouse. The owner had cleared out his family home in New Jersey and
returned to Israel.

Two weeks after their arrest, the Israelis were still in detention, held on
immigration charges. Then a judge ruled that they should be deported. But the
CIA scuppered the deal and the five remained in custody for another two months.
Some went into solitary confinement, all underwent two polygraph tests and at
least one underwent up to seven lie detector sessions before they were
eventually deported at the end of November 2001. Paul Kurzberg refused to take a
lie detector test for 10 weeks, but then failed it. His lawyer said he was
reluctant to take the test as he had once worked for Israeli intelligence in
another country.

Nevertheless, their lawyer, Ram Horvitz, dismissed the allegations as "stupid
and ridiculous". Yet US government sources still maintained that the Israelis
were collecting information on the fundraising activities of groups like Hamas
and Islamic Jihad. Mark Regev, of the Israeli embassy in Washington, would have
none of that and he said the allegations were "simply false". The men themselves
claimed they'd read about the World Trade Centre attacks on the internet,
couldn't see it from their office and went to the parking lot for a better view.
Their lawyers and the embassy say their ghoulish and sinister celebrations as
the Twin Towers blazed and thousands died were due to youthful foolishness.

The respected New York Jewish newspaper, The Forward, reported in March 2002,
however, that it had received a briefing on the case of the five Israelis from a
US official who was regularly updated by law enforcement agencies. This is what
he told The Forward: "The assessment was that Urban Moving Systems was a front
for the Mossad and operatives employed by it." He added that "the conclusion of
the FBI was that they were spying on local Arabs", but the men were released
because they ''did not know anything about 9/11".

Back in Israel, several of the men discussed what happened on an Israeli talk
show. One of them made this remarkable comment: "The fact of the matter is we
are coming from a country that experiences terror daily. Our purpose was to
document the event." But how can you document an event unless you know it is
going to happen?

We are now deep in conspiracy theory territory. But there is more than a little
circumstantial evidence to show that Mossad - whose motto is "By way of
deception, thou shalt do war" - was spying on Arab extremists in the USA and may
have known that September 11 was in the offing, yet decided to withhold vital
information from their American counterparts which could have prevented the
terror attacks.

Following September 11, 2001, more than 60 Israelis were taken into custody
under the Patriot Act and immigration laws. One highly placed investigator told
Carl Cameron of Fox News that there were "tie-ins" between the Israelis and
September 11; the hint was clearly that they'd gathered intelligence on the
planned attacks but kept it to themselves.

The Fox News source refused to give details, saying: "Evidence linking these
Israelis to 9/11 is classified. I cannot tell you about evidence that has been
gathered. It's classified information." Fox News is not noted for its
condemnation of Israel; it's a ruggedly patriotic news channel owned by Rupert
Murdoch and was President Bush's main cheerleader in the war on terror and the
invasion of Iraq.

Another group of around 140 Israelis were detained prior to September 11, 2001,
in the USA as part of a widespread investigation into a suspected espionage ring
run by Israel inside the USA. Government documents refer to the spy ring as an
"organised intelligence-gathering operation" designed to "penetrate government
facilities". Most of those arrested had served in the Israeli armed forces - but
military service is compulsory in Israel. Nevertheless, a number had an
intelligence background.

The first glimmerings of an Israeli spying exercise in the USA came to light in
spring 2001, when the FBI sent a warning to other federal agencies alerting them
to be wary of visitors calling themselves "Israeli art students" and attempting
to bypass security at federal buildings in order to sell paintings. A Drug
Enforcement Administration (DEA) report suggested the Israeli calls "may well be
an organised intelligence-gathering activity". Law enforcement documents say
that the Israelis "targeted and penetrated military bases" as well as the DEA,
FBI and dozens of government facilities, including secret offices and the
unlisted private homes of law enforcement and intelligence personnel.

A number of Israelis questioned by the authorities said they were students from
Bezalel Academy of Art and Design, but Pnina Calpen, a spokeswoman for the
Israeli school, did not recognise the names of any Israelis mentioned as
studying there in the past 10 years. A federal report into the so-called art
students said many had served in intelligence and electronic signal intercept
units during their military service.

According to a 61-page report, drafted after an investigation by the DEA and the
US immigration service, the Israelis were organised into cells of four to six
people. The significance of what the Israelis were doing didn't emerge until
after September 11, 2001, when a report by a French intelligence agency noted
"according to the FBI, Arab terrorists and suspected terror cells lived in
Phoenix, Arizona, as well as in Miami and Hollywood, Florida, from December 2000
to April 2001 in direct proximity to the Israeli spy cells".

The report contended that Mossad agents were spying on Mohammed Atta and Marwan
al-Shehi, two of leaders of the 9/11 hijack teams. The pair had settled in
Hollywood, Florida, along with three other hijackers, after leaving Hamburg -
where another Mossad team was operating close by.

Hollywood in Florida is a town of just 25,000 souls. The French intelligence
report says the leader of the Mossad cell in Florida rented apartments "right
near the apartment of Atta and al-Shehi". More than a third of the Israeli "art
students" claimed residence in Florida. Two other Israelis connected to the art
ring showed up in Fort Lauderdale. At one time, eight of the hijackers lived
just north of the town.

Put together, the facts do appear to indicate that Israel knew that 9/11, or at
least a large-scale terror attack, was about to take place on American soil, but
did nothing to warn the USA. But that's not quite true. In August 2001, the
Israelis handed over a list of terrorist suspects - on it were the names of four
of the September 11 hijackers. Significantly, however, the warning said the
terrorists were planning an attack "outside the United States".

The Israeli embassy in Washington has dismissed claims about the spying ring as
"simply untrue". The same denials have been issued repeatedly by the five
Israelis seen high-fiving each other as the World Trade Centre burned in front
of them.

Their lawyer, Ram Horwitz, insisted his clients were not intelligence officers.
Irit Stoffer, the Israeli foreign minister, said the allegations were
"completely untrue". She said the men were arrested because of "visa
violations", adding: "The FBI investigated those cases because of 9/11."

Jim Margolin, an FBI spokesman in New York, implied that the public would never
know the truth, saying: "If we found evidence of unauthorised intelligence
operations that would be classified material." Yet, Israel has long been known,
according to US administration sources, for "conducting the most aggressive
espionage operations against the US of any US ally". Seventeen years ago,
Jonathan Pollard, a civilian working for the American Navy, was jailed for life
for passing secrets to Israel. At first, Israel claimed Pollard was part of a
rogue operation, but the government later took responsibility for his work.

It has always been a long-accepted agreement among allies - such as Britain and
America or America and Israel - that neither country will jail a "friendly spy"
nor shame the allied country for espionage. Chip Berlet, a senior analyst at
Boston's Political Research Associates and an expert in intelligence, says:
"It's a backdoor agreement between allies that says that if one of your spies
gets caught and didn't do too much harm, he goes home. It goes on all the time.
The official reason is always visa violation."

What we are left with, then, is fact sullied by innuendo. Certainly, it seems,
Israel was spying within the borders of the United States and it is equally
certain that the targets were Islamic extremists probably linked to September
11. But did Israel know in advance that the Twin Towers would be hit and the
world plunged into a war without end; a war which would give Israel the power to
strike its enemies almost without limit? That's a conspiracy theory too far,
perhaps. But the unpleasant feeling that, in this age of spin and secrets, we do
not know the full and unadulterated truth won't go away. Maybe we can guess, but
it's for the history books to discover and decide.

LOAD-DATE: November 03, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: As the Twin Towers burned, five men in a white van, above, celebrated.
French intelligence reports contend that Mossad agents were spying on hijacker
Mohammed Atta, below Montage: John Henderson

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 3, 2003

SECRET MEMO REVEALS PLANS TO EVACUATE MILLIONS FROM CAPITAL; TERROR ATTACK:
CLEAR THE CITY

BYLINE: By Rachel Baird Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8 9

LENGTH: 626 words


DETAILED plans to evacuate London after a "catastrophic" terrorist attack are
being finalised this week by police and councils whose areas could be flooded
with refugees from the capital.

Ministers have demanded that a master plan for moving potentially hundreds of
thousands of people out of the city must be completed by the end of the year, in
a chilling sign of how seriously they take the threat.

The planning meeting this Thursday will identify precisely which roads people
will use to escape London and which buildings they will shelter in until it is
safe to return home.

The provision of mortuaries and "mass burial sites" will also be addressed.

A "restricted" memo sent to organisations which are preparing the emergency
plans states that although "mass evacuation will always be used as a last
resort", there are several situations in which it could be needed.

"A catastrophic incident within Greater London possibly resulting from a
chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear incident, high level intelligence
indicating a specific threat or the loss of essential services such as water or
electricity would be the likely scenario for evacuation, " says the memo.

"Whilst the decision may come from the Gold Co-ordinating Group (top officials
commanding the crisis), it is very likely that significant numbers of the
population would self-evacuate."

The memo, which was prepared by the Government Office for London, describes the
evacuation of the capital as "Operation Sassoon."

Officials do not expect to have to evacuate the entire city, which has seven
million residents. Instead, certain areas are thought to be the most likely
targets for attack, including the Whitehall area around Parliament and the City
of London and Canary Wharf areas, for which the most detailed plans are being
prepared.

The memo also discloses that some of the people fleeing London by road and rail
are likely to be "contaminated".

There will be such "overwhelming" numbers expected to evacuate in an emergency,
that normal standards for care of displaced people will be abandoned, it
reveals.

"Emergency concepts of 'best practice' in relation to the provision of emergency
rest and reception facilities in the event of a major incident will not be
followed.

"Local authorities and voluntary services will provide the best possible care
within the restrictions of capacity and in overwhelming circumstances." A
particular problem would be evacuating the most vulnerable groups, such as old
people, children at school, people with disabilities, people in hospital and
those in prison, says the memo.

But although London is thought to be the most likely target for an attack,
councils and emergency services across the country are being asked to report
back to Government on their ability to cope. They have been asked to reply to
questions which give a chilling insight into the possible aftermath of an
atrocity.

Officials are being quizzed about the plans they have to deal with chemical,
biological and nuclear attacks and outbreaks of infectious diseases including
deadly smallpox.

They are also being requested to say what they have done about the possible need
to evacuate populations in their own areas and to take evacuees from surrounding
areas.

Other questions cover the provision of mortuaries and "mass burial sites" in the
event of "mass fatalities" and plans to dispose of bodies which pose a
"contamination risk".

Plans to protect private property from looters are also covered in the National
Capabilities questionnaires.

The answers will be used to draw up a picture of how well prepared different
areas are to cope with a worst case scenario and the results given to ministers.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 3, 2003

TERROR ATTACK: LONDON TO BE EVACUATED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8 9

LENGTH: 489 words


DETAILED plans to evacuate London after a "catastrophic" terrorist attack are
being finalised this week by police and councils whose areas could be flooded
with refugees from the capital.

Ministers have demanded that a master plan for moving potentially hundreds of
thousands of people out of the city must be completed by the end of the year, in
a chilling sign of how seriously they take the threat.

The planning meeting this Thursday will identify precisely which roads people
will use to escape London and which buildings they will shelter in until it is
safe to return.

The provision of mortuaries and "mass burial sites" will also be addressed.

A "restricted" memo sent to organisations which are preparing the emergency
plans states that although "mass evacuation will always be used as a last
resort", there are several situations in which it could be needed.

"A catastrophic incident within Greater London possibly resulting from a
chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear incident, high level intelligence
indicating a specific threat or the loss of essential services such as water or
electricity would be the likely scenario for evacuation, " says the memo.

"Whilst the decision may come from the Gold Co-ordinating Group (top officials
commanding the crisis), it is very likely that significant numbers of the
population would selfevacuate."

The memo, which was prepared by the Government Office for London, describes the
evacuation of the capital as "Operation Sassoon".

Officials do not expect to have to evacuate the entire city, which has seven
million residents.

Instead, certain areas are thought to be the most likely targets for attack,
including the Whitehall area around Parliament and the City of London and Canary
Wharf areas, for which the most detailed plans are being prepared. The memo also
discloses that some of the people fleeing London are likely to be
"contaminated".

A particular problem would be evacuating the most vulnerable groups, such as old
people, children at school, people with disabilities, people in hospital and
those in prison.

But although London is thought to be the most likely target for an attack,
councils and emergency services across the whole country are being asked to
report to the Government on their ability to cope.

The questions give a chilling insight into the possible aftermath of an
atrocity.

Officials are being quizzed about the plans they have to deal with chemical,
biological and nuclear attacks and outbreaks of diseases including smallpox.
They are also being requested to say what they have done about the possible need
to evacuate populations in their own areas and to take evacuees from their
surrounding areas.

Plans to protect private property from looters are covered too.

The answers will be used to draw up a picture of how well prepared different
areas are to cope with a worst case scenario.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 4, 2003, Tuesday

MECCA TERROR ATTACK FOILED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 31 words


A TERROR plot to strike the Muslim holy city of Mecca was smashed yesterday
after two militants were killed in a gun battle and a cache of arms found.

Voice of the Mirror: Page 6

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 4, 2003, Tuesday

:UVF RAIDER'S FAMILY IN FIREBOMB TERROR;
 ATTACK ON JAILED THUG'S HOME

BYLINE: RICHARD GRAY & MAGGIE BARRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 258 words

HIGHLIGHT: RAID: Wilson robbed pub for the UVF, right


THE family of a jailed UVF terror gang member have been targeted in a terrifying
firebomb attack.

Harry and Helen Wilson were watching television in their Dundee home with
daughter Cheryl when the explosive device was hurled through their living room
window.

The attack comes almost a year after their son, Gavin, 22, was convicted of an
armed raid on a pub to raise cash for an Ulster Volunteer Force-linked terror
group, the Red Hand Commandos. Police last night refused to comment on the
motive behind the attack, but neighbours fear it could be related to the son's
paramilitary links.

A police source said: "We are keeping an open mind."

The terrified family were staying in a police safe house in the wake of Saturday
night's incident. It's understood the bomb was attached to a brick.

Yesterday one close friend of the family, who asked not to be named, said: "The
people who did this are just scum.

"Helen and Harry are lovely people and it is just disgraceful the way they have
been targeted.

"They were sitting in the living room at the time and the device came right over
their heads through the window - it is a miracle no one was hurt.

"They had been trying hard to rebuild their lives since Gavin was sent to
Saughton Prison.

"But it is coming up to the anniversary and this could all be connected."

Gavin was jailed for 10 years for his part in an armed raid on the Mains of
Claverhouse pub in Dundee in September 2002.

His masked gang fled with pounds 3,000 after holding staff at gunpoint.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 5, 2003, Wednesday

14-YR-OLD LUKE IS STABBED TO DEATH: PUPIL KNIFED;
 CHILDREN FLEE IN TERROR AS BOY IS ATTACKED ON WAY TO LESSON

BYLINE: STEVE MCCOMISH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 472 words

HIGHLIGHT: TRIBUTE: A policeman lays a bouquet outside school where Luke was
stabbed; VICTIM: It's claimed Luke Walmsley was involved in row with another
boy; SUPPORT: Chief Con Lake


A BOY of 14 was stabbed to death at school yesterday after an alleged row with
another pupil.

Football-mad Luke Walmsley was waiting to go into class when he was knifed in
the chest in front of his horrified friends.

As some children fled the scene in terror, others desperately called for help.

But, by the time Luke reached hospital, he was dead.

Luke's neighbour Elizabeth Hiscock has a granddaughter at Birkbeck School in
North Somercotes, Lincs.

She said: "She saw Luke just after he'd been stabbed.

"He tried to run away but then collapsed in a pool of blood."

Last night a boy of 15 was being quizzed by police with his mother and father at
his side.

Luke's parents Paul and Jayne, who are separated, were too upset to talk about
the tragedy.

But a family spokesman, who answered the door of Paul's home close to the
school, said: "They are disgusted at the school for allowing this to happen.

"You could understand if this was in a big town or city but not in a country
place like this."

The tragic incident happened at around 11am at the 300-pupil school.

It is understood Luke and his alleged attacker got into a row before the
mid-morning break.

Luke's distraught sister, a pupil at the school, was comforted by friends and
staff.

After the attack, pupils and staff were ordered to go to their classrooms and
stay away from the windows as a helicopter ambulance arrived with paramedics.

As Luke was carried across the playground on a stretcher, emergency crews
struggled to save his life for 25 minutes before flying him to hospital in
Grimsby.

He was dead on arrival.

At an emergency school assembly, head Gary Loveridge announced there had been a
"serious accident".

Stunned parents then started arriving to take their children away.

One parent said: "My son was a good friend of Luke and was just eight yards away
when it happened.

"He said: 'Mum, I knew it was touch and go for him because the helicopter was
there for so long'.

"It is an appalling thing for these children to have to go through."

The new Chief Constable of Lincolnshire, Tony Lake, attended the scene. Police
said: "He has pledged the full support of the force for the school in what will
be a very traumatic time for students and staff."

Later stricken friends laid tributes to Luke inside the school gates. One card
read: "Luke, you'll forever be in our minds. Live in peace. Kirsty, Tyler and
Stacey."

Luke was a fanatical Liverpool fan, and his friends intend to lay his Reds'
shirt at the gates today.

Police have sealed off the area where he was attacked for forensic tests. A
spokesman said: "A 15-year-old boy has been arrested and taken to Skegness where
he will be questioned."

The school is expected to remain closed today.

s.mccomish@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                November 5, 2003

Al-Qaida terror suspect quizzed over possible attack in Britain

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 344 words


An Al-Qaida suspect was being questioned in Belfast last night by detectives
investigating possible terrorist threats on Britain.

The Algerian, 25, was detained at Maghaberry Prison, near Lisburn, Co Antrim, as
arrangements were made to have him deported. Police in London were alerted
immediately.

Officers in Northern Ireland were granted an additional 72 hours to question the
suspect, giving them a Saturday deadline to either charge or release him.

He is being questioned about "serious crime" and "having information likely to
be useful to terrorists".

Police Service of Northern Ireland Chief Constable Hugh Orde claimed the target
for any attack may have been the British mainland.

He said: "I suspect the Commissioner in London (Sir John Stevens) has far more
concerns currently than I do in relation to some of these offences".


The suspect was arrested at Maghaberry where he had been held for six months
awaiting deportation.

He was among six immigration detainees held at the jail's Mourne House where
their telephones calls are monitored and recorded.

But details of his arrest only emerged after a judge granted officers additional
time to question him at Gough Barracks, Armagh city.

A number of items were seized after Special Branch officers ordered the man's
arrest, and according to sources close to the inquiry they are considered to be
"highly significant".


Scotland Yard and security agencies in Europe were immediately alerted once the
man was taken in for questioning. It is understood his identity had already been
confirmed with Interpol.

It is understood police do not believe a terrorist strike was imminent.

They are also investigating links with other Islamic and Middle East
organisations.

The Metropolitan Police confirmed they were liaising with Belfast police but
could make no further comment.

The Police Service of Northern Ireland also said the force was unable to give
details, but the Chief Constable highlighted the international dimension and
co-operation with Scotland Yard.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2003

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                                November 6, 2003

Arts: Blam! Pow! Splat!: The 'comedy terrorist' attacks the Chapman brothers,
the Chapmans attack Goya . . . Don't panic the latest wave of vandalism is part
of a grand tradition

BYLINE: Matt Shinn

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1039 words


What would it take for you to walk into a gallery and deface a famous painting?
The "comedy terrorist" Aaron Barschak faces a possible jail sentence, after
being convicted last week by Oxford magistrates of criminally damaging works in
the Chapman brothers' summer exhibition The Rape of Creativity. What makes the
case unusual is that some of the artworks concerned, now part of the Chapmans'
Turner prize show, have themselves given rise to accusations of vandalism: they
include an edition of 80 rare original impressions of Goya's The Disasters of
War, on which faces of clowns and puppies have been drawn.

You can tell a lot about someone from the art they choose to attack and the way
they choose to do it; and you can tell a lot about the age they live in, too. Of
course, art destruction is nothing new: in its religiously inspired form, it
stretches from the whitewashings and burnings of eighth-century Byzantium to
Britain's own periods of iconoclasm in the 16th and 17th centuries. And beyond
in some places - it's not long since the Taliban took their bullets and
explosives to the 1,500-year-old statues of the Buddha at Bamiyan, Afghanistan.

But these collective programmes of destruction are not the modern way in the
west. These days, in the vast majority of cases, art vandalism is carried out by
isolated individuals, who broadcast their opinions to the world in a
deliberately anti-social manner. The acts are even "signed": the perpetrator
lingers, allowing himself to be caught (it is usually "he"), before giving a
full explanation to the judiciary and the press.

The era of the individualistic art vandal was ushered in with the 20th century.
A sign of the times - in the years up to the first world war, there was a spate
of attacks involving people who were destitute. "I was miserably hungry," said
Prolain Delarre at her trial for a red-ink attack in 1912, "and the sight of the
young woman in the picture (by Boucher) with a happy smile and luxurious clothes
maddened me."

At the same time, there were some famous politically motivated attacks. In 1914,
Velazquez's Toilet of Venus was slashed with a hatchet by Mary Richardson, a
militant Suffragette, in protest at the arrest of Emmeline Pankhurst. She said
she hadn't liked the way the work was ogled by men.

Above all, in the modern era, artists should beware other artists. In 1920,
artist Delivigne slashed a still life at the Grand Palais in Paris, and then
stood admiring his handiwork. He explained to police that, as a sufferer from
neurasthenia, this particular work had been more than his nerves could bear. In
1962, German-born artist Franz Weng threw an unopened bottle of ink at
Leonardo's Virgin and Child with Saint Anne and John the Baptist, in the
National Gallery (this is one of several works that has been attacked more than
once; it was shot from close range in 1987). The two people who independently
pelted Marcus Harvey's Myra at the Royal Academy's 1997 Sensation exhibition
(with eggs and ink) were artists. Tony Shafrazi, who sprayed the words "Kill
lies all" (sic) on Picasso's Guernica in 1974, was an artist at the time and is
now a successful New York art dealer.

In this age of anti-art, moreover, it is increasingly common for vandals to
claim their mutilations and additions are themselves "art". A wide array of
techniques is available to the modern destruction artist. Mark Bridger claimed
that by pouring black ink into a tank containing a white lamb in formaldehyde
(Damien Hirst's Away from the Flock), he had transformed it into a new work,
Black Sheep. Yuan Cai and Jian Jun Xi Ianjun's double-handed work, Two Naked Men
Jump Into Tracey's Bed, involved them bouncing on and rolling in Tracey Emin's
My Bed at Tate Britain. The same interpretative style was then applied to Marcel
Duchamp's Fountain, to create Two Artists Piss on Duchamp's Urinal (2000).

Barschak claimed unsuccessfully to have been creating a new work by throwing red
paint over the Chapmans' efforts. What is it that motivates these artist-vandals
and links these different attacks? Is there perhaps some dark connection between
creation and destruction revealed? Psychologists Victor Allen and David
Greenberger think there might be: their "aesthetic theory of vandalism" is based
on evidence that vandals experience an artistic kind of pleasure in what they
do, a pleasure heightened by the complexity of what is damaged, and by the
novelty and ingenuity of the way it is attacked.

For David Freeberg, the psychology of art vandalism combines attention-seeking,
obsessiveness (the attack is an attempt to break the hold of a compelling
image), and an antagonistic attitude to authority. Thus it may be that the very
greatness of old artists triggers feelings of inadequacy and aggression,
particularly in other artists.

So are the Chapman brothers, favourites for this year's Turner prize,
essentially the same as these art vandals, whose "fusion of versatility and
malice" has made itself felt in modern times? Well, not quite.

Of course, to deface an artist's work remains a genuinely shocking thing to do.
Especially when it's Goya. Especially when it's The Disasters of War. Maybe all
good artists are engaged in an Oedipal struggle to overcome or "correct" what
their forebears have done, but that does not require them literally, physically,
to obliterate parts of that legacy.

What sets the Chapmans apart from the vandals, though, is that the Goya etchings
were theirs, bought and paid for, which makes all the difference in the eyes of
the law. As owners of the prints, they were able to go through them,
meticulously drawing on all the faces of the victims of war that Goya had
depicted.

If I were to make substantial alterations to a listed building, no matter how
"beautifully", I might well end up in court. The question here is about the
private ownership of cultural property, about what money does and does not
entitle you to do. Because they have a legal title to it, the Chapmans are not
answerable, in the way that a vandal would be, for their destruction of a small
piece of Spanish and world heritage. Why should buildings be protected and not
rare prints by Goya?


LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            November 7, 2003, Friday

COP'S FLARE ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 60 words


A LIT maritime flare was posted through the letterbox of a police officer's home
early yesterday.

PC Stuart Sutherland suffered minor injuries as he removed it from his house in
the Sutherland village of Golspie.

The 41-year-old, who is married and has two sons aged 15 and 12, said: "This was
a terrifying experience for myself and my family."

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2003 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                November 9, 2003

TERROR ATTACKS FORCE POP BABE TO SPLIT FROM BOYFRIEND; WHY I HAD TO GIVE UP MAN
I LOVE

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE by SUSAN HILL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  13

LENGTH: 577 words


POP babe Jennifer Ellison has told how she was forced to leave her jailbird
fiance - despite the fact that she is still madly in love with him.

The former Brookside actress, who has now split from lover Tony Richardson after
a three-year romance, has blamed the terrifying attacks on her luxury GBP
200,000 home for the breakdown of their relationship.

Sexy Jennifer, 20, has not ruled out the possibility of getting back together
with the former sunbed salesman.

But, for now, they have agreed to "give each other some space".

Still shaken by the terrible attacks on her home, Jennifer said: "It's been
crazy.

"It's put a huge strain on everything - and I was getting upset all the time.

"So Tony and I decided to have a break and let everything settle down - then see
what happens.

"I am not in a frame of mind at the moment to make any big decisions.

"I don't want to go to work upset and I think it's best that we have some
space."

And she insisted: "Tony understands totally."

But Jennifer has not ruled out the possibility of a reconciliation.

She added: "I am not a robot. I can't turn my feelings on and off. I still love
him more than anything and I'm missing him like hell. I've cried so much."

Her split from Tony, 24, came after gangsters fired bullets at their home in
Liverpool.

A few weeks later the windows were shattered by a firework - believed to have
been fired by the same gang.

While no one knows who is behind the terror campaign, there has been speculation
that the attacks are revenge against Richardson for allegedly "grassing" names
to the police after his friend was stabbed in a pub.

Inevitably, a strain was put on the relationship and the pair decided to spend
some time apart.

But public rows and heavy drinking on his part accompanied the end of the stormy
relationship.

From the start, the busty babe's romance was put to the test when Richardson was
jailed for driving while disqualified. Now gorgeous Jennifer has moved out of
their fourbedroom Liverpool home and is living in London.

She is currently working round the clock filming Joel Schumacher's film version
of the stage musical Phantom Of The Opera - which has seen the release of her
new single Bye Bye Boy being put back until the 24th of this month due to her
hectic schedule.

Somewhat appropriately, the single is all about being an independent woman and
saying that you can cope without a man in your life.

Jennifer's first single, Baby I Don't Care, was a Top 10 hit and she is hopeful
that her singing career is really going to take off.

On the future, she said:

"I need to concentrate on my career 100 per cent at the moment.

"I don't want to get married yet but perhaps in two years' time.

By the time I'm 30, I'd love to have platinum discs on the walls of a mansion.

"And I hope I have a three-year-old child and another baby on the way.

While I love my career, you have to think about the future - who will be looking
after you when you're 60?

"But I am not going to sit here and feel sorry for myself."

Jen admitted that Tony may even be the one she shares her life with.

But for the time being she will be waiting to see what happens in her immediate
future before deciding what to do.

She added: "If it's right for me and Tony to get back together, we will.

"But we will just have to wait and see. At the moment, I don't know what to do
for the best."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 Express Newspapers

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           November 10, 2003, Monday

11 DEAD,122 HURT IN TERROR ATTACK;
 AL-QAIDABLAMED FOR SAUDI ATROCITY

BYLINE: ED JAMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 486 words


A CAR bomb attack which killed at least 11 people and wounded more than 100 in
Riyadh on Saturday evening appeared to be the work of alQaida,Saudi officials
said yesterday.

The Saudi Interior Ministry, quoted by the kingdom's official news agency, said
the 11 dead included Saudis, Lebanese,Sudanese and Egyptians, among them four
children but did not have a more specific breakdown. The ministry said 122 were
injured,but all but 25 had been discharged from hospitals by yesterday
afternoon.

The blasts came after gunmen exchanged fire with security guards in a compound
of about 200 houses where most of the residents were Lebanese. Some Saudis also
live there, plus a few German,French and Italian families.

The Interior Ministry official said the compound attack was by a suicide car
bomber and similar in style to a series of May 12 car bombings in Riyadh
compounds housing foreigners that were blamed on the alQaida terror network.
Those blasts killed 35 people. Some witnesses said Saturday's car bombers used
what appeared to be a police car.

Immediately after the explosion, there were widely conflicting reports of the
death toll. Early yesterday,Al-Arabiya TV, quoting unnamed Saudi sources,
reported the discovery of an unspecified number of bodies belonging to attackers
involved in the blast.

In comments published on the web site of Saudi daily Okaz newspaper, Interior
Minister Prince Nayef said they could not rule out a connection to suspected
al-Qaida terrorist cells targeted in recent sweeps, as a number of suspects from
those cells were still at large.

Al-Qaida,led by Saudi-born dissident Osama bin Laden,has long opposed the Saudi
royal family, accusing it of being insufficiently Islamic and too close to the
West, particularly the United States.

In London yesterday, the Saudi ambassador to Britain, Prince Turki al-Faisal,
condemned the attack as the work of an "evil cult" whose "sole aim was the
destruction of the kingdom."

By targeting foreigners' housing compounds, the attackers were targeting the
backbone of the Saudi economy. Saudi Arabia is home to 6m expatriate
workers,including about 35,000 Americans and 30,000 Britons. The kingdom relies
on foreigners in its oil industry, security forces and health sector.

Saudi authorities have been under US pressure to act against terrorism and
extremism. Fifteen of the 19 hijackers in the September 11, 2001 attacks on the
United States -also blamed on al-Qaida -were Saudis.

Saudi officials have been cracking down on homegrown militants since the May 12
bombings in Riyadh. In the past week,police clashed with suspected al-Qaida
sympathisers in the streets of the sacred city of Mecca on Monday,killing two
militants and uncovering a large cache of weapons.

Three days later, two suspected militants blew themselves up in Mecca to avoid
arrest and a third was killed by security forces.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Smoke rises from the rubble as Saudi emergency vehicles sit parked
outside the Muhaya compound in Riyadh yesterday after Saturday's attack;
Picture: JOHN MOORE

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Eastern Daily Press

                               November 10, 2003

Norfolk is more prepared for a terrorist attack since yesterday, when the police
and fire service practised dealing with a chemical or biological attack.

BYLINE: FLATT

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 230 words


Norfolk is more prepared for a terrorist attack since yesterday, when the police
and fire service practised dealing with a chemical or biological attack.

Ten fire engines rushing round the county with five police motorcyclists and two
police cars turned a few heads, but it might not seem an obvious way of dealing
with terrorism.

The exercise was part of New Dimension, which is meant to prepare the emergency
services for incidents requiring mass decontamination.

Tomorrow, Norfolk fire service gets its first mass decontamination unit - a
large lorry that could also be used for chemical spills or a large fire
involving hazardous materials.

It would be sent to an incident along with eight fire engines, which travel
together. So fire crews need to get used to travelling in convoy.

Ten fire engines took part, two each from Dereham Diss, Wymondham and Hethersett
and one each from Attleborough and Acle.

Those taking part observed the two minutes' silence for Remembrance Day before
setting off from Thetford just after 11am via Costessey to Dereham and back via
the southern bypass, arriving at Bowthorpe at 1pm.

Police motorcyclists went ahead to close off roads.

Assistant divisional officer Paul Wooster, in charge of New Dimension, said:
"Travelling in convoy is not as simple as people might think. It needs practice.
We will be practising again."

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2003

                   © Copyright 2003 Eastern Daily Press (EDP)



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1001 - 1500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:22:34

