



Download Request: Select Items: 501-1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:35:35
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            August 14, 2005, Sunday

Don't leave your will to chance The terrorist attacks in London and Egypt have
prompted many people to write a will, but it is something we should all have
done anyway. Nic Cicutti guides us through the process of leaving our legacy in
order

BYLINE: By Nic Cicutti

SECTION: Features; Pg. 010

LENGTH: 1339 words

MAKING a will is a something few people like to do. Aside from any other
consideration, it means admitting that we may not live forever. Which is why, in
most cases, a decision to draw one up is based on a specific event that forces
us to confront our own mortality.

For tens of thousands of people across the UK, last month's terrorist bombings
in London, as well the two car bombs that exploded in Egypt, have provided that
spur. Will-writing agencies are reporting a surge in the number of enquiries
from members of the public over the past five weeks.

Willdrafters.com, a firm that specialises in advising people in this area, says
that since the bus and underground bombings on July 7, the company has been
inundated by customers. Inquiries, which ran at about 150 a week in the seven
days before the bombings, are running at almost twice that level one month
later.

Jason Leigh, commercial director at tenminutewill, another online will-writing
website, says his firm has seen a 10 per cent rise in applications, while
Lawpack, which supplies DIY will-writing kits to big store chains, including
Tesco and WH Smith, also reports an increase in sales.

A spokeswoman at Barclays Bank's will-writing department says: "The team has
noticed an increase in the number of wills written since July 7."

David Crossland, a director at Willdrafters.com says that people rarely decide
to "just write a will". He adds that people usually do it because of a highly
personal set of circumstances that they face, which leads them to the conclusion
that their loved ones need to be looked after if something happens to them.

"For some, it can be the death or illness of another family member or a friend,
or even a near-death experience," Crossland says. "For others it may be to do
with moving, coming into money, having babies or even a mid-life crisis.

"Clearly, the terrorist incidents in London, plus the suicide car bombs in
Sharm-el-Sheikh have had a traumatic effect on people. Our enquiries are not
confined to the London area: many will be thinking that if it can happen there
it could happen in any major urban centre or on a train, on a bus or a plane
heading anywhere."

There are several reasons why making a will is so important. The first is that
without a will, the Government steps in and divides everything according to
strict rules of intestacy. This could mean family, friends or charities you
wanted to benefit might miss out altogether.

Jeremy Passmore, the head of estate planning at Kent solicitors Thomson Snell &
Passmore, says: "From experience, I know how much family discord and grief can
be generated from lack of a will, a badly drafted will, or a testator who has
not thought through the consequences of his will."

A will, by contrast, means you can leave your property, money and other assets
to the people you want. For example, if you aren't married to your partner, they
could end up with nothing if you die without a will. Legally they count only as
a friend and not next of kin.

In addition, if your children are young, their future can be protected by
choosing a legal guardian to be responsible for their upbringing in the event of
your death. You do need to get the person's permission before nominating them.
However, if you don't specify anyone, it will be left to surviving relatives to
sort out who looks after them, and it may end up being someone you would never
have chosen yourself.

Writing a will can also mitigate an inheritance tax (IHT) liability. IHT is
currently payable on all net assets over pounds 275,000 left in the estate.
Everything in the estate above this "nil-rate band" is subject to IHT at 40 per
cent. But a will is a key IHT avoidance tool.

For example, inheritance tax is not payable on assets passed between husband and
wife, so most couples simply leave everything to each other. But this means that
the first to die has made no use of his or her IHT-free allowance, and the
children have to pay IHT on everything above the tax-free slice when the second
parent dies.

Couples can make full use of their nil-rate bands by dividing their assets
equally and leaving the children an amount equivalent to the nil-rate band (or
less) in their wills. For instance, if your total assets are worth pounds
500,000, you could each leave pounds 250,000 to your children. In this example,
your children would escape all IHT liabilities.

Before even making a will, make a list of everything you own, including
property, cars, jewellery, your home contents, bank or building society
accounts, any shares and life insurance. Then make a list of all you owe, like
mortgages, hire purchase agreements, loans or credit. Take these lists with you
when you see a solicitor. Expect to pay around pounds 100 for a simple will and
anything up to pounds 1,000 for more complex cases

When making a will you also appoint one or two executors whose task is to make
sure of this. Again, you need their permission before nominating your executors.
It is also advisable to appoint more than one executor, both younger than
yourself.

To find a solicitor, ask friends if they can recommend one. Look in your
telephone directory under solicitor or contact your local Citizens Advice Bureau
for help. The Law Society can direct you to a list of solicitors in your area,
and has lots of useful information.

You could buy a do-it-yourself will-making kit, but this could leave you open to
legal challenges if your will is disputed. You can always change your will later
on, but make sure your executors know where you have kept your latest will. If
you use the services of a solicitor, they will keep a second copy for you.

What will happen if you die intestate?

MARRIED

If your estate is worth less than pounds 125,000 then your spouse gets
everything. If you had no other surviving relative, then your spouse gets
everything, regardless of value.

MARRIED WITH CHILDREN

If your estate is worth less than pounds 125,000, your spouse gets everything.
If more, he or she gets pounds 125,000 and a "life interest" - a right to
interest, but not capital - in half of anything over this amount.

Your children get half the amount over pounds 125,000 immediately and the other
half on the death of your spouse. If your children die before you, their kids
are entitled to that share.

MARRIED, NO CHILDREN, BUT OTHER RELATIVES

If your estate is worth less than pounds 200,000, your spouse gets everything,
or pounds 200,000 plus half the balance if worth more. The remaining half goes
to other relatives in a pre-determined order of priority.

UNMARRIED, WITH CHILDREN

Your estate will be shared between the children. Should they die before you then
their children would inherit.

UNMARRIED, NO CHILDREN, BUT WITH PARENTS OR RELATIVES

The estate is shared equally among them in strict order of priority. If any of
them have died but their children are alive, they take their parent's share.

If you are not lawfully married, and have no other relatives. Your estate goes
to the Crown. Intestacy rules do not recognise "common law" partners.

SCOTLAND

A surviving spouse has "prior rights" - a first claim on the estate. These are:
a share of the deceased's house, up to pounds 300,000 (from June 1, 2005);
furniture up to pounds 24,000; a payment of pounds 75,000 if there are no
children or descendants; pounds 42,000 if there are children or descendants.

A surviving spouse and children can also claim a proportion of "moveable" estate
(money, cars, shares, jewellery). If there are no children or descendants the
spouse is entitled to one half of moveables, or one third if there are kids, who
get another third. The rest is called "free estate" and goes to surviving
relatives.

No will? No way you can...  pass your estate to an unmarried partner; decide how
much money each of your family members are bequeathed; state who will become the
guardians of your children; leave something to a charity; give a treasured
possession to a close friend or family.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                       August 15, 2005 Monday 2:05 PM GMT

Egypt says Sinai blast was 'terror attack'

LENGTH: 155 words


AL-ARISH, Egypt (AFX) - A blast that targeted an international peacekeeping
vehicle in Egypt, west of the border with the Gaza Strip, was a terrorist
attack, officials told Agence France-Presse.

'Terrorists planted two gas canisters on the road and linked them to an
electrical wire.

They hid in nearby apricot groves and blew them up,' North Sinai Governor Ahmed
Abdel Hamid told reporters.

He said only one of the bombs exploded and that the other was

being examined by ordnance experts, adding that two female Canadian

peacekeepers from the Multinational Force and Observers were lightly

wounded.

str-jmm/txw/vs

COPYRIGHT

Copyright AFX News Limited 2005. All rights reserved.


The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News content, including by
framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written
consent of AFX News.

AFX News and the AFX Financial News logo are registered trademarks of AFX News
Limited


LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 15, 2005

TERROR ATTACKS HIT ECONOMY; CITY AND BUSINESS EDITED BY ANDREW JOHNSON

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; CITY; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 229 words


THE London terrorist attacks have sent business confidence plummeting to the
lowest level since the Iraq war two years ago, it was revealed yesterday.

Lloyds TSB Finance Markets Business Barometer warned hopes of a manufacturing
recovery during the second half of this year were "seemingly damaged" after
business confidence fell sharply in July.

Chief economist Trevor Williams said the Tube and bus bombings had dented both
retail business and tourism confidence. This drop in certainty was driven by
greater pessimism among property firms, hotels and retailers.

However, he warned this increase might have also been sparked by much slower
economic growth during the first half of the year, forcing manufacturing into
recession.

"In the past six months, economic growth has slowed to an average of 0.4 per
cent in the first and second quarters of the year, well below the long run rate
of 0.65 per cent a quarter, " Williams said. "As a result, the Bank of England
has since cut interest rates for the first time in two years, with some
expectations that more may be in the offing." The bank's survey found the number
of firms maintaining a pessimistic outlook almost doubled from 26 per cent to 40
per cent month on month.

Companies expecting their own business conditions to improve during the next 12
months fell from 55 per cent to 42 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 15, 2005

Terror law watchdog attacks 'advice' to judges

BYLINE: DEBORAH SUMMERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 334 words


THE lord chancellor's proposed legislation to "help" judges interpret human
rights laws was  like "teaching your grandmother to suck eggs", the head of an
independent watchdog on anti-terror measures claimed yesterday.

Lord Carlile, a Liberal Democrat peer appointed to review anti-terror laws, said
Tony Blair was right to deport Islamic extremists, but he condemned moves by
Lord Falconer, the lord chancellor, to force judges to take greater account of
national security when considering deportation cases.

Human rights laws prevent people being sent back to countries where they face
the threat of torture or execution.

But Lord Carlile said judges already gave due consideration to national security
and ministers'wishes, but were also rightly "fearless" in defence of human
rights. "Long live the independence of the judges, " he added.

Ten extremists suspected of supporting terrorism currently face deportation from
Britain after Jordan signed a memorandum of understanding guaranteeing their
safety, and officials are said to be close to securing similar agreements with
nine other countries.

Lord Carlile rejected suggestions by civil rights campaigners that the
agreements were not worth the paper they are written on.

Other countries such as France had made bilateral agreements work successfully
and they "could hold good with the UK".

However, Lord Falconer's threat to use legislation to amend the Human Rights Act
if judges still blocked the deportations was unnecessary, the peer said.

"Trying to persuade judges through legal provisions to consider national
security is actually teaching your grandmother to suck eggs, " he said.

He told BBC News 24:

"Judges are fearless when they think it is right to ensure that human rights are
enforced.

"On the other hand, you will see many other cases in which what is sometimes
called the doctrine of deference to ministers is applied faithfully.

"What that means is it is for the foreign secretary to make foreign policy, it
is for parliament to make laws."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            August 16, 2005, Tuesday

RISK OF THIRD TERROR ATTACK NOT ELIMINATED

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 347 words

HIGHLIGHT: Charles Clarke: Worried


It would be "absolutely foolish" to assume there will not be another terrorist
strike in London, the Home Secretary Charles Clarke warned yesterday.

Mr Clarke said the risk of a third attack in the capital or elsewhere had not
been eliminated and added that the authorities "remained worried" about the
possibility.

Speaking after a visit to Scotland Yard, Mr Clarke said there was no specific
intelligence about the existence of a third terror cell.

However, as he stood shoulder to shoulder with Metropolitan Police Commissioner
Sir Ian Blair he warned that those responsible for last month's attack could yet
be planning to strike again.

"We remain worried," he said. "It would be absolutely foolish for me or anybody
else to say that we have eliminated the risk. We have not.

"There is no particular intelligence that we are addressing, but we are working
on the basis that the people who organised these attacks could proceed with
other attacks as well."

Mr Clarke visited Scotland Yard on the first day back from his holiday in the US
to receive an update on the progress of the police investigation into the July 7
and July 21 terror attacks.

Outside the Yard, Sir Ian agreed with Mr Clarke's assessment that another wave
of attacks were still possible.

"The fact that we have had two attacks makes it more, rather than less, likely
that we will have further attacks," he said.

"That is the logic of all this. "We're working incredibly hard with the
intelligence services to prevent them."

Mr Clarke also explained why the Government had decided to act last week against
the radical Muslim cleric Omar Bakri Mohammed and ten foreign terror suspects.

The ten, who included the radical Jordanian preacher Abu Qatada, were detained
last week in a series of raids. They now face the possibility of deportation to
countries with poor human rights records.

Mr Clarke said: "What has been happening since I became Home Secretary is a very
intense series of discussions with countries from which those people come and we
have made progress

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                August 16, 2005

FRESH TERROR ATTACK FEARS

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 196 words


HOME Secretary Charles Clarke has warned it would be "foolish" to rule out the
possibility of more terror strikes in London.

Mr Clarke said the risk of a third attack in the city or elsewhere had not been
eliminated and added the authorities "remained worried" about another outrage.

After a visit to Scotland Yard yesterday when he met Metropolitan Police
Commissioner Sir Ian Blair, Mr Clarke warned those behind last month's attacks
could be planning to strike again.

"We remain worried, " he said. "The Commissioner has been very clear throughout
that it would be ridiculous for us to assume a further attack could not take
place.

"One of the main principles of this investigation is to identify any linkages
which would enable us to act more effectively to reduce that likelihood and that
work is happening.

"It would be absolutely foolish for me or anybody else to say that we have
eliminated the risk.

"We are working on the basis that the people who organised these attacks could
proceed with other attacks as well."

Mr Clarke visited Scotland Yard on his first day back from a holiday in the US
for an update on the 7/7 and 21/7 attacks.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       August 16, 2005, Tuesday Edition 1

Double knife attack terror

BYLINE: By Brenda Hickman, The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 243 words


   Knives were used in separate street muggings on a teenage girl and woman.

The attacks happened within two days and both victims, aged 16 and 41, were
severely shocked.

Acting Det Insp Mark Appleby at Newcastle's Etal Lane police station said: "The
incidents were initially investigated together, because knives were involved in
both bag snatches.

"However, two men have been arrested and charged separately with the robberies."

The first reported attack was on a 16-year-old walking home at around 11pm in
West Denton Way, Newcastle, on August 9.

She allegedly had a knife put to her throat while a robber demanded her handbag.

The terrified youngster was pounced on from behind as she walked past the fire
station.

A man was arrested on Saturday after inquiries were made at the scene.

Mark Gallon, 18, of Orchard Terrace Lemington, appeared before Newcastle
magistrates' yesterday and was remanded in custody.

In the other strike on August 11, a woman walking in Longley Street, Arthurs
Hill, in Newcastle's West End was allegedly threatened with a knife as a mugger
grabbed her bag.

Police were at the scene within minutes and arrested a suspect nearby in a stop
and search operation.

A knife was recovered from the suspect and he was taken to a police station for
questioning.

Thomas Spry, 18, of no fixed address but from the Walker area of Newcastle, was
remanded in custody when he appeared before City JPs on Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2005 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                August 16, 2005

Police texts will warn of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: RICHARD EDWARDS

SECTION: D_MERGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 114 words


SCOTLAND Yard today launched a text message and email service that can alert
Londoners if the capital comes under terrorist attack.

The service sends free bulletins to mobile phones and computers in a bid to
reassure the public.

In the event of an emergency, it can warn people to stay in their offices, avoid
using public transport or not to enter specific areas of London.

The Police Message Broadcast system can deliver 160,000 emails, up to 13,000
recorded phone messages and 55,000 text messages per hour.

Users can log on to www.police.uk and enter their details to become a free
subscriber. There is a freephone help and advice line on 0800 028 2390.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 17, 2005

ATTACKS ON MUSLIM COUNCIL PLAY INTO TERRORISTS' HANDS

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 156 words


THE Muslim Council of Britain is by far the most representative mainstream
Muslim organisation in Britain, with more than 400 affiliates reflecting the
diversity of Britain's Muslim communities.

The MCB has been unwavering in urging Muslims to help the police find anyone
associated with terrorist attacks. In the past its leadership went to Iraq to
try to help free British hostages. Those conducting what I consider a witch hunt
against the MCB are doing great harm to the fight against terrorism. They must
ask themselves in what way they are helping the fight against terrorism by
waging a campaign of demonisation and spin against this representative body of
British Muslim organisations.

As Mayor of London, I have worked with the MCB for nearly five years and I will
continue to do so because their weight and authority make them an essential part
of our country's political life.

Ken Livingstone, Mayor of London

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           August 17, 2005, Wednesday

Clarke warns of new attack after terror briefing

BYLINE: Daniel McGrory and Richard Ford

SECTION: Home news; 4

LENGTH: 259 words


CHARLES CLARKE has been given a secret briefing on the police investigation into
the links between the two groups of bombers who attacked London last month.

The Home Secretary was shown the latest information on the bombs used and
intelligence gathered from abroad as Scotland Yard continue its search for those
linked to the suicide bombers who died in the July 7 attacks. Scotland Yard
poured more manpower this week into investigating the support network behind the
atrocity, which killed 56 people.

After meeting senior officers heading Britain's biggest murder hunt, Mr Clarke,
speaking on the Today programme on BBC Radio 4, said that it would be "very
surprising" if the attacks of 7/7 and 21/7 were not connected. As he gave
warning that terrorists might be planning a third strike, Mr Clarke said: "We
don't know the full extent of the network involved in this and we have to plan
on that basis."

Investigators are intensifying their search in several countries including
Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, checking telephone calls and e-mails sent to the
bombers. A senior officer close to the investigation said last night: "If you
believe it was coincidence that two groups of men at opposite ends of the
country decided to stage attacks in the capital within days of each other, then
how much more a coincidence is it that they appear to have independently decided
to use homemade explosives involving an almost identical formula with the same
chemical constituents."

No one has been charged in relation to the 7/7 bombing.


LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Commercial Motor

                                August 18, 2005

Tankers in the front line...;
Tanker operators have been advised to increase their security amid warnings of
further UK terror attacks. Jennifer Ball reports.

BYLINE: J Ball

SECTION: This week; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 254 words


Tanker operators are being urged to step up security amid fears that al-Qaeda is

plotting to use a fuel tanker in a terrorist attack on London.

The warning was contained in a US Homeland Security report which states suicide
drivers may be planning to hijack trucks and smash them into petrol stations,
causing mass casualties.

The report adds: "Al-Qaeda leaders plan to employ various types of fuel trucks
as vehicle-borne improvised explosive devices in an effort to cause mass
casualties in the US [and London]... Some of the vehicles will be hijacked. The
type of vehicles may be anything from gasoline tanker trucks to trucks hauling
oxygen and gas cylinders."

Operators are now being urged to follow the amendments to the Carriage of
Dangerous Goods and Use of Equipment Regulations. These include ensuring drivers
and their crew carry photo IDs and using devices, equipment or arrangements to
prevent the theft of vehicles and their loads.

Peter Larner from Suckling Transport says his firm is now in regular
communication with the Department for Transport about security issues. "This has
been going on for many years since the IRA used a truck bomb," he says.  "We
receive regular updates on security issues."

Andrew Palmer, MD at Suttons Group, reports that its drivers are all given
security training on what to do in an emergency.

"We have strict security arrangements in place which are reviewed regularly with
the police and other agencies," he says. "There is clearly a heightened sense of
awareness given recent events."

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                 Copyright  2005 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 18, 2005

British director to make 9/11 film: After initial hesitancy, Hollywood studios
have lined up a string of projects about the US terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Dan Glaister in Los Angeles

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 653 words


The British director Paul Greengrass is to direct a film based on the events of
9/11, the third film project by a major Hollywood studio to tackle the subject.

With the fifth anniversary of 9/11 approaching, Hollywood and some television
networks are putting aside the reticence they have shown in dealing with the
events of 2001.

The film, provisionally titled Flight 93, will follow the story of the doomed
United Airlines flight that crashed into a field in Pennsylvania and will be
made by Universal Studios with a budget of $ 15m.

Paramount Studios has already announced that Oliver Stone will direct a film
about the two New York Port Authority workers trapped in the rubble of the World
Trade Centre. Starring Nicolas Cage, the as-yet untitled film will begin
production in October.

Colombia Pictures also has a 9/11 project in the works, having optioned the
rights to 102 Minutes, a book by two New York Times reporters that deals with
the time between the first plane's impact and the collapse of the second tower.

Television is also getting in on the act, with the ABC network scheduled to
screen an eight-hour mini-series about 9/11 this autumn.

While Hollywood has traditionally been circumspect about dealing with sensitive
and tragic events in the recent past, history shows that once one studio goes
with a subject, the rest are sure to follow.

Although films set in the Vietnam war were released while it was being waged, it
was not until after the war that films dealing critically and, in some cases,
realistically, with the war emerged. The Deer Hunter, Born on the Fourth of
July, also directed by Oliver Stone, Full Metal Jacket and Apocalypse Now all
provided some sort of cathartic relief from the trauma caused by the war.

In the immediate aftermath of the attacks on the World Trade Centre, Hollywood
studios withdrew from release several films that included hijackings and scenes
of planes crashing into buildings. The most high-profile was the Warner Bros
film Collateral Damage, starring Arnold Schwarzenegger. Spider-Man was edited to
remove scenes showing the twin towers.

But the coming weeks will see the release of two films that show traumatic
events taking place on board planes, following on the heels of the television
drama Lost, about a plane which crashes on an island.

Flightplan, due for release at the end of September in the US and a month later
in the UK, stars Jodie Foster as a mother whose daughter goes missing on a
flight. Most of the action is set on board the plane.

This week also sees the US release of Red Eye, directed by Wes Craven, who made
the Scream series of horror spoofs. Red Eye is the story of a woman who is
kidnapped while on a flight. The film will be released in the UK on September 2.

Greengrass, who came to prominence with his television dramatisation The Murder
of Stephen Lawrence, and Bloody Sunday, a verite-style dramatisation of the
events in Northern Ireland in 1972, recently found mainstream Hollywood success
with The Bourne Supremacy.

But his 9/11 project promises to reflect the director's roots in
drama-documentary and his affinity with the work of the great British
documentary director Alan Clarke.

The 90-minute film, first reported by the trade magazine Variety, will cover
events on the flight in real-time, and will be partly improvised by an ensemble
cast filmed using hand-held cameras.

It is not known how closely the film will stick to the mythology of the flight,
including the famous line "Let's roll", allegedly shouted by passengers as they
moved to tackle the hijackers.

The film was green-lighted by Universal and the British production company
Working Title, following a 20-page treatment submitted by Greengrass. The
director argued that as the fifth anniversary of 9/11 approaches, film should
take its place in marking the events.

guardian.co.uk/film


LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Milton Keynes Citizen

                                August 18, 2005

Family under siege in race terror attack

LENGTH: 407 words


A SOMALIAN family have been living under siege after a crowd of neighbours
shouting racial abuse attacked their house just days after they moved into the
street.

The mob hurled missiles at the family of 12's house, smashing three windows at
the back and front of the property in Nevis Grove, on the Lakes estate,
Bletchley.

One rock landed just inches away from the children while they were sleeping.
They later hid under the stairs for safety.

The father, whose family moved into the house last Tuesday, said: "We are not
safe here and we are prisoners in here.

"The children cannot play outside. No one can go out except myself."

The man was at work when the first incident happened on Thursday evening, and
discovered a smashed window when he returned home.

The following night the abuse continued between 7pm and 8pm, with both adults
and children shouting and throwing objects including rocks, a fence post and
even a wrench.

The father, who has lived in Milton Keynes for five years, brought his family to
the UK after becoming a British citizen, having

arrived in the country as an asylum seeker.

Fatuma Odugleh, the chairman of the Somali Community Resource Consortium, said:
"People should live peacefully together. Why do people hate?

"This family are new to this street and they should welcome them - not frighten
them and try to kill them.

"They are not harming anybody, so why are people harming them?"

Hussein Hassan, who sits on the Independent Advisory Group, said he believed the
attacks were prompted by the London bombings because some of the crowd made
references to Al Qaeda.

Indy Nandha, a community race relations officer, said the police had asked the
council to re-house the family as a matter of urgency, and the Lakes estate beat
officer would be stepping up patrols in the area.

The family was moved out on Tuesday this week.

A council spokesman said: "The family has been offered temporary accommodation
elsewhere in view of the circumstances and we are considering a priority move
for permanent accommodation.

"This is indicative of how seriously we take these ssues."

l Victims of a racial crime can report incidents to the police directly, to the
Racial Equality Council, mosques or by calling Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800
555111.

In addition they can email mkrace&hatecrimeunit@thamesvalley.pnn.uk

richard.cooper@mkcitizen.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 19, 2005

Comment & Analysis: There's no such thing as total security: A third terrorist
attack on London may be 'inevitable' but draconian new laws will do little to
solve the problem

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 988 words


Charles Clarke, the home secretary, says it is absolutely foolish to assume
there will not be a third terrorist attack in London. James Hart, the City of
London police commissioner, says an attack on Britain's main financial centre is
inevitable, echoing remarks made by the former Met commissioner Lord Stevens.
For years Eliza Manningham-Buller, the head of MI5, has been warning of the
near-certainty that London would be bombed. Late last year she said: "The
terrorists are inventive, adaptable and patient. Their planning includes a wide
range of methods to attack us."

Scarcely a day goes by without reports of a new terrorist attack being planned
and hyped-up claims about the bombings in London last month. Yet there is no
evidence of a "mastermind" behind the July 7 suicide bombings and no evidence of
any link between those att acks and the attempted bombings of July 21. There is
certainly no evidence of any link between the attacks and the nonviolent
Islamist group Hizb ut-Tahrir, which Tony Blair now wants to proscribe, or to
the cleric Omar Bakri Mohammed, now banned from returning to Britain.

No, what evidence there is existed already. Whatever one's view about these and
other organisations and individuals, there was no new intelligence to trigger
new action against them.

But Blair needed to be seen to be doing something. Thus on August 5 he told
journalists that "the rules of the game are changing". He then announced 12
"security measures" including deportation, extending the use of control orders,
and refusing asylum automatically to "anyone who has participated in terrorism
or has anything to do with it anywhere".

However, there is no evidence that any of these measures would have caught the
"home-grown" July 7 bombers or the alleged July 21 bombers. It is not the lack
of anti-terrorist legislation or gaps in the criminal law that is the problem;
it is the lack of intelligence. Clarke appears to recognise that, as do the
security and intelligence agencies. Blair, apparently, does not.

There is a real danger that the prime minister's 12-point outburst will be
counterproductive, alienating the very people that the government - and not
least these agencies - need on their side.

The domestic security service, MI5, has recognised for years that it needs the
help of ethnic minorities, notably Muslims, and now the secret intelligence
service, MI6, whose spies operate abroad, has come to understand that too. MI6
wants to recruit what counterterrorist sources call a "different kind of
person", a reference to people who understand the causes as well as the symptoms
of the problem.

The most senior ministerial advisers appear to have identified the problem more
than a year ago. Internal Whitehall correspondence leaked earlier this year
shows that in April 2004 Sir Andrew Turnbull, the cabinet secretary, wrote a
letter marked "restricted policy" to the top official at the Home Office, Sir
John Gieve.

"Are we listening enough to the Muslim communities (here and overseas) and
understanding what we hear (even where we do not agree with it)?" he asked. "Are
we communicating the right messages to the right parts of the Muslim community
effectively?"

Sir Andrew did not shy away from addressing the government's foreign policy.
"Should our stance (eg on the Middle East peace process or Kashmir) be
influenced more by these concerns?" he asked. "How do we communicate our foreign
policy to the Muslim community? Where are they getting their information and
opinion from?"

Sir John wrote back to the cabinet secretary a month later. It was a long letter
identifying the problems, including issues of identity, the threat of terrorism,
and how to overcome disaffection, of which "extremism" was a symptom. He also
referred to "anger" - a word he emphasised - among many young British Muslims
borne out of a perception of double standards in British foreign policy, where
democracy is preached but oppression of the Ummah (one nation of believers) is
practised or tolerated.

Sir John described a "perceived western bias in Israel's favour over the
Israel/Palestine conflict" as a "key long-term grievance of the international
Muslim community which probably influences British Muslims". That perception, he
added, seems to have become more acute since the 9/11 attacks.

"The perception is," wrote the permanent secretary at the Home Office, "that
passive 'oppression', as demonstrated in British foreign policy, eg non-action
on Kashmir and Chechnya, has given way to 'active oppression' - the war on
terror in Iraq and Afghanistan are all seen by a section of the British Muslims
as having been acts against Islam."

Sir John referred to the lack of any tangible "pressure valve" to vent
frustrations or dissent - leading to a desire for what he called a simple
"Islamic" solution to the perceived oppression.

We do not know how much, if any, of this influenced the July 7 suicide bombers.
We cannot take comfort from the likelihood that they and the alleged July 21
bombers took orders from an al-Qaida hierarchy. Indeed, free lancers are more
dangerous to track than fully paid-up members of terrorist, extremist or
militant groups.

There is no such thing as total security. But at least the Whitehall mandarins
and the security agencies are asking the right questions - rather more fertile
ground than Blair's rhetoric about a war on terror that the most draconian of
laws and the most authoritarian of ministers could never win.

Ministers, if not mandarins, are in danger of being chased by a mixture of fear
and tabloid headlines up a spiral staircase, with each step representing a new
law. At the top there will be an empty room; at the bottom, a land of unsolved
problems made worse by racial and religious tensions.

Richard Norton-Taylor is the Guardian's security affairs editor

r.norton-taylor@ guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                August 19, 2005

UN: Secretary-General commends 'Courageous Decision' of Israeli Prime Minister
Sharon on disengagement process; condemns terror attack on Palestinian civilians

LENGTH: 264 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-AUGUST 19, 2005-UN: Secretary-General commends 'Courageous
Decision' of Israeli Prime Minister Sharon on disengagement process; condemns
terror attack on Palestinian civilians ©1994-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The following statement was issued today by the Spokesman for UN
Secretary-General Kofi Annan:

If there is to be peace in the Middle East, it will require leadership, vision
and the willingness of leaders on both sides to make sacrifices for the greater
good.

In this context, the Secretary-General commends the courageous decision of Prime
Minister Sharon to carry through with the painful process of disengagement from
the Gaza Strip and part of the northern West Bank. The Secretary-General hopes
that both Palestinians and Israelis will exercise restraint in this challenging
period. He condemns the terror attack of 17 August against Palestinian
civilians, and sends his condolences to the families of the victims and to the
Palestinian Authority.

The Secretary-General believes that a successful disengagement should be the
first step towards a resumption of the peace process, in accordance with the
Road Map. He notes that it is an important opportunity for the Palestinian
Authority to demonstrate its commitment to peace and security by establishing
the rule of law in Gaza following the withdrawal.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                August 19, 2005

Shop terror as masked men attack guard

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 262 words


MASKED gunmen hit a security guard in the face and threatened a terrified
eight-year-old girl before escaping with cash in a lunchtime store raid.

Two robbers entered the Co-op Late Shop in Manchester Road Blackmoor Tyldesley
shortly after 12.30pm on Tuesday and threatened two security guards who were
replenishing the cash machine.

They told the guards to hand over the cash cartridges they were using to fill
the machine. One of the guards was struck in the face with what is believed to
have been the barrel of a gun and the thugs forced him to hand over three cash
containers.

The raiders then placed the cash in a hold-all and made their getaway in a
stolen silver Saab which was driven off in the direction of Leigh by an
accomplice. The car was later found burnt out in Caldwell Avenue 200 yards away
from the scene of the robbery.

The security guard who was hit in the face suffered a cut lip and had one of his
teeth knocked out by the impact.

He was taken to the Royal Bolton Hospital for treatment.

An eight-year-old girl who was in the shop at the time was also threatened by
the gunmen. She was not injured but was left shaken by the incident.

One robber was 5ft 10in tall and the second man was 5ft 8in tall. Both men were
wearing dark coloured clothing and balaclavas.

Police cordoned off the scene at the corner of North Lane as a forensic team
searched for clues.

Anyone with any further information about this incident should contact Wigan CID
on 0161 856 7254 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           August 20, 2005, Saturday

WOMAN'S SEX ATTACK TERROR;
 VICTIM HEARD SCREAMING AS PERVERT POUNCED

BYLINE: BY BEN GRIFFIN CRIME REPORTER BEN_GRIFFIN@MRN.CO.UK

SECTION: Leamington Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 241 words

HIGHLIGHT: ON THE RUN: The junction of Kenilworth Road and Lillington Road where
the attacker was last spotted. Picture: WILL BINNS


A SEX attacker pounced on a terrified young woman as she walked home along a
main road.

The 22-year-old victim was walking home from a nightclub when the she was shoved
on to the ground and indecently assaulted in Kenilworth Road, Leamington, at
2.30am yesterday.

It is believed the attacker lay in wait on a dirt track as the woman approached.

People living nearby heard the woman's screams and rushed to help her as she was
attacked near a hotel.

They chased the man but they lost him as he headed into the town centre. He was
last seen near to the traffic lights at the junction of Kenilworth Road and
Lillington Road.

The woman was "extremely distressed" and was looked after by residents, who
called the police.

She was taken to hospital and treated for shock and grazes to her knees.

A Warwickshire Police spokeswoman said the investigation was in its early
stages.

She said the attacker was described as being white, aged 25 to 30, skinny, 5ft
10in tall with a shaved head and light-coloured hair.

He was wearing what police described as a distinctive white shirt with a
Chinese-style motif on it and dark- coloured jeans.

Police are appealing for anyone who saw a man matching that description in the
town, before or after the time of the attack, to contact them.

They also urged anyone with any information to contact Det Sgt Steve Beardsmore
at Leamington CID on 01925 451 111, extension 169.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2005 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           August 20, 2005, Saturday

DON'T PANIC;
 O'DEA DECLARES IRELAND SAFE FROM TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY GARY ANDERSON

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 332 words

HIGHLIGHT: HAPLESS: Willie O'Dea as Corporal Jones from Dad's Army


DEFENCE Minister Willie O'Dea yesterday declared Ireland is completely SAFE from
terrorists - despite chilling warnings from Islamic extremists.

In a plea just like Dad's Army's hapless Corporal Jones, he told the country:
Don't Panic.

Mr O'Dea said there is no risk because he is keeping an eye on 50 Islamic
extremist sympathisers around the country.

He added: "These people are all under constant surveillance and their activities
and movements are being watched.

"We are being informed all the time and kept up to speed of any defence issues.

"There is absolutely nothing to indicate that Ireland is in any way under
threat."

But in Tuesday's Irish Daily Mirror, notorious British extremist Anjem Choudary
warned the threat was from foreign terrorists slipping into the country to
spread death and chaos.

He believes the use of Shannon Airport as a stop off for US warplanes makes
Ireland a "legitimate" target for attacks by Muslims from Iraq and Afghanistan.
Choudary, who despises democracy and has praised Osama bin Laden and the 9/11
terrorists said: "If your Government want to support the atrocities in
Afghanistan, then they can expect some repercussions and the Muslims overseas
have a different responsibility to the Muslims living in Ireland.

And, referring to London-style attacks on Irish soil he said: "If people slipped
into Ireland from Iraq, Afghanistan or elsewhere where the Irish are standing
side by side with the butcher of Baghdad George Bush then they would have a
legitimacy for that type of thing."

In March, Choudary warned an attack on Britain was "only a matter of time" and
he has refused to condemn the suicide bombers who killed 52 innocent people in
London on 7/7.

Mr O'Dea yesterday dismissed Choudary's comments, calling them "very
irresponsible".

He said: "These are very irresponsible comments by this gentleman that I do not
know.

"They do not appear to represent the general view of Islamic people here."

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The NorthEast

                                August 20, 2005

Terror attacks dent high street sales

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 170 words

DATELINE: The North East


HIGH street sales went into reverse last month as retailers suffered a loss of
business in the wake of the London bombings.

The Office for National Statistics (ONS) said sales volumes were 0.3 per cent
down on a month earlier although this figure was not as bad as analysts had
feared and indicated the sector may be over the worst of its downturn.

The fall reversed an increase of 1.2 per cent during June which came as the warm
weather and store sales encouraged shoppers to buy more summer clothes.

The ONS said it was not possible to measure the impact of the July 7 attacks on
the figures but pointed out that London accounted for 20 per cent of retail
sales.

The data follows gloomy surveys from the likes of the British Retail Consortium
(BRC)which said the high street suffered its worst July in a decade.

The CBI said that July sales remained at the lowest level in the survey's
22-year history.

Both said the impact of the London bombings on the high street could have been
worse.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The News of the World

                                August 21, 2005

WE STILL FACE TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: LEADING ARTICLE

LENGTH: 201 words


    OUR revelations today that terrorist massacres are being planned across
Ireland make shocking reading.

    Six-time loyalist killer Michael Stone's confession will send shivers down
the spines of people on the whole island.

    We know now how close we were to witnessing slaughter on our streets
bloodier than the 1974 Dublin and Monaghan bombings.

    It is stomach-churning an unrepentant assassin like Stone can dismiss the
loss of innocent lives through bombings as "collateral damage".

    The Milltown Cemetery murderer is a perfect example of someone whose
prejudices and hatred are firmly rooted in the past.

    It is likely Stone will face fresh police charges over the terror plots he
has revealed.

    We hope his confession to the Irish News of the World helps add to the file
against him being prepared by Northern police.

    The most important lesson to be learned from Stone's chilling admission is
that both Catholics and Protestants must ensure the peace process keeps moving
forward.

    Never must we allow ourselves to slip back into the dark abyss from which we
have emerged.

    Because, if we do so, then we will be playing exactly into the hands of
Stone and others like him.


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                August 21, 2005

Observer Magazine: Life: On the Couch: Dread nought: Witnessing a terrorist
attack doesn't necessarily mean you'll experience later anxiety, says Oliver
James . But there may be other prices to pay

BYLINE: Oliver James

SECTION: Observer Magazine Pages, Pg. 57

LENGTH: 526 words


A month after the failed bombings of 21 July, not everyone is equally
intimidated by the threat of being blown up. Politicians encouraged us to feel
smug about our resilient Blitz Spirit and to keep using public transport to
prove our defiance of the evil forces of Satan (meaning Bin Laden, not Bush).
While some small-minded commentators sneered that it was easy enough for them to
write such speeches from the safety of their limousines, there is actually some
scientific evidence that glass-half-full thinking is the best way to keep the
fears at bay.

A sample of New Yorkers were studied from seven months after 9/11 until 18
months afterwards. All had been in close proximity to the World Trade Center at
the time and had witnessed deaths or injuries. Nonetheless, one third of them
had been little shaken by the atrocity, suffering no increase in depression or
anxiety, not worrying that something else awful might happen.

A quarter did have a small initial increase in fear, but had recovered by 18
months; 13 per cent suffered a delayed reaction. Initially fine, they developed
increasing numbers of symptoms, like repetitive fantasies of destruction.
Finally, 29 per cent suffered symptoms throughout.

Overall, the more injuries and deaths witnessed, the greater the distress.
However, a crucial factor was the extent to which people protected themselves
from uncomfortable feelings by what psychologists call 'self-enhancement'.

Self-enhancers live in a rose-tinted bubble of positive illusions. They tend to
blame others for mistakes and to take credit where it's not due. They assume
nasty things are less likely to happen to them than is actually the case and
that good things will happen more than is likely.

In the study, the New Yorkers who fell into the resilient category were more
likely than those in the others to be self-enhancers. However, before you rush
to join them in LaLa Land, there was a downside. Self-enhancers tend to be
unpopular narcissists.

In the study, when their friends and relatives were interviewed 18 months after
9/11, they said the self-enhancers were not being honest and their relationships
were deteriorating. The problem is that self-enhancers are liable to be immune
to how others see them.

My practical tips for anyone who is feeling nervy about using public transport
are threefold. First, remind yourself that even if there is another atrocity,
it's incredibly unlikely it will affect you or anyone you know.

Second, do deep breathing: start with an in-breath that takes 30 seconds,
counting to 30, using your stomach to pull the air in rather than your chest, do
the same for out-breaths, repeat as necessary.

Third, picturing it in black and white chrome, imagine a situation where you
feel completely safe and relaxed - lying by a pool or serving aces on a tennis
court. Now picture it again, but this time introduce the colour until you have
boosted it to the most vivid brilliance you can imagine. Repeat as necessary.

Rather than becoming a self-enhancing bore, if you do these things, you will not
feel the fear. OM

oliver.james@observer.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               PR Newswire Europe

                             August 21, 2005 Sunday

Government Fire Cuts Will Delay Response to Terror Attacks, Says Fire Union

LENGTH: 432 words


LONDON, August 21 /PRNewswire/ --

- Speech by Ruth Winters, President of the Fire Brigades Union, to the
Bournemouth Fire Brigade.

Emergency services will cope less effectively with terrorist attacks if
government proposals to reduce England's 46 fire control centres to just nine
are implemented, says Fire Brigades Union President Ruth Winters.

She told Bournemouth fire workers at a meeting today [Sunday 21 August]:

"In order to spend GBP1 billion on an untested new technology project, the
government proposes to lose 380 or more jobs in control centres. No technology,
even if it were tried and trusted, can replace a human being at the end of the
telephone in an emergency.

"The fire minister, Jim Fitzpatrick, has claimed that his grandiose, top-heavy
proposal will make the response to terrorist attacks more efficient. But it will
not. It will make the response less efficient, and it will cost lives.

"All the successes of July 7 were based upon one brigade liasing with one police
service and the other services, and the fact that the staff at the control
centres are used to London. Yet the government wants to introduce huge
multi-Brigade controls, with fewer people and roomfuls of glossy, expensive but
untried technology. To depend on technology instead of depending on people is
folly.

"I have worked in control centres for nearly 20 years. I have taken calls in
which I spend 15 minutes on the telephone, literally saving a life. One was a
man whose legs were trapped after an accident, and our control members needed to
keep talking and making him do the right things to stay alive. But that can only
be done when there are enough staff to take other emergency calls.

"Even the best technology can only tell you where the person notifying the fire
is - not where the fire is. And when technology breaks down, we use our local
knowledge and training. We can do that with 46 control centres - but it will not
work with only nine.

"And it is not just control room staff who are being lost. The government will
also help fund this proposal by getting rid of front line emergency response
firefighters. No doubt ministers will deny this, but we know it has already
started.

"In Suffolk, as I speak, the union is fighting to protect 12 front line
emergency response firefighting jobs. Their jobs are an indirect casualty of the
control centre proposal, because Suffolk fire authority needs the extra money in
order to keep its existing control centre functional in the transition period."

LONDON, August 21 /PRNewswire/ -- The Fire Brigades Union

CONTACT:

Further Information: Ruth Winters +44-[0]7710-363-544, Francis Beckett
+44-[0]7813-001-372

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 PR Newswire Europe Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved.

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            August 22, 2005, Monday

MPS CALL FOR SIKHS TO BE PROTECTED AFTER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY JONATHAN WALKER

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 290 words


Police must protect Sikhs from any reprisals following the terrorist attacks on
London, a Midland MP has warned.

Rob Marris (Lab Wolverhampton South West) said Sikhs could be targeted following
recent events.

Sikh Gurdwaras, or temples, have already been vandalised by people attacking
Muslims, who do not understand the difference between Sikhs and Muslims or do
not care, he said.

The MP has tabled a House of Commons motion urging Charles Clarke, the Home
Secretary, and chief constables across the country to thoroughly investigate any
attacks on the Sikh community and other minority communities.

He said: "I am very concerned that the Sikh community and other minority
communities should not become the target for hate attacks following the dreadful
bombings in London on the July 7.

"The UK Sikh community have expressed their deep sadness and concerns along with
others at the terrible atrocities perpetrated by the terrorists, both in London,
New York and elsewhere in the world.

"Since September 11, 2001 there have been several attacks suffered by the
visible Sikh community including attacks on Sikh gurdwaras.

"I roundly condemn such attacks, and attacks on other minority communities, and
would ask the police to be vigilant and to treat any threats against minorities
very seriously."

The Commons motion highlights "the several attacks suffered by the visible UK
Sikh community and by other minority communities following the New York atrocity
of September 11."

It has also been signed by Peter Luff (Con Mid Worcestershire) and Janet Dean
(Lab Burton).

Mr Marris is Chair of the All Party Parliamentary Group for UK Sikhs, which is
designed to ensure Sikhs have a voice in Government

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                August 22, 2005

Three in hospital as attacks bring terror to streets

BYLINE: MAUREEN CULLEY

SECTION: ED_SC2_04; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 403 words


A SERIES of unrelated assaults in Glasgow over the weekend are being treated as
attempted murder.

Police investigations are now underway after three men were left in a serious
condition in hospital.

In one incident, a man suffered multiple stab wounds when a gang attacked him as
he waited in his car to pick someone up in the Townhead area of the city.

The 27-year-old was approached by three men at around 1am yesterday as he sat in
his blue Toyota Carina.

He was stabbed several times and staff at Glasgow Royal Infirmary later
described his condition as 'serious but stable'.

Detective Chief Inspector David Swindle said: 'Our enquiries are at an early
stage but we believe the man was sitting in his car waiting for someone when he
was approached by three white men at around 1am today. After a short
conversation, the men attacked him then made off.' An 18- year- old man was also
described as being in a 'serious but stable' condition in hospital after being
attacked as he walked home from a night out with a friend in Ruchazie Road,
Cranhill, in the early hours of Saturday.

Strathclyde Police said he suffered a serious neck injury when he was set upon
by a gang of teenagers.

A 38-year-old man who was attacked by four or five male youths in Shettleston at
11.30pm on Friday was said to be in a 'very serious' condition in hospital.

In another incident, a 27-year-old man was repeatedly stabbed by a gang as he
travelled on a Number 51 bus in Loretto Street, Cranhill, with a female friend
at 9.30pm on Friday. He was taken to hospital, but released after treatment.

Detective constable Murdo Kennedy of Easterhouse CID urged other passengers who
were on the bus at the time to contact him.

Meanwhile, on Saturday night, firefighters attending a call were attacked by
youths throwing bricks, stones and bottles.

They were attempting to control blazing rubbish in Motherwell when they came
under attack from the youngsters at around 9pm.

Police were quick to intervene and none of the firefighters was injured.

Strathclyde Fire and Rescue Service yesterday condemned the youths' behaviour.
Divisional officer George McGrandles said: 'It is extremely disappointing when
crews are attacked for no apparent reason when they are attempting to protect
the public from fire.

'Fortunately, no firefighters were hurt and the appliance sustained no damage.'

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                August 22, 2005

ATTACK ON TERROR

SECTION: Scottish Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 68 words


SCOTLAND's top churchman has called on radical Muslim preachers to leave Britain
if they want to spread hatred and encourage terrorist attacks on our forces in
Iraq.

Rev David Lacy, Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland,
branded extremists "hypocrites" for taking state benefits and NHS treatments
from the UK Government while preaching messages of hate against its citizens.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            August 23, 2005 Tuesday
                               Leamington Edition

Police plea over terror sex attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 278 words


DETECTIVES today renewed their appeal for witnesses to an indecent assault in
Leamington.

The terrifying attack took place outside the Abbacourt Hotel in Kenilworth Road,
Leamington, at 2am on Friday.

The female victim was pushed over and indecently assaulted by a man, who had
moved out of the shadows from a dirt track.

The 22-year-old victim was left extremely distressed and required hospital
treatment for shock and grazing to her knees.

Police today appealed for two men - believed to be the last people to have
talked to the victim before the attack - to come forward. The pair left Sugar
night club, in Tavistock Street, before getting into a car at the end of the
taxi bay at 1.46am.

Before they entered the vehicle they spoke to the woman, who was wearing a denim
mini skirt, light-coloured, high-heeled shoes and a black, long- sleeved top.

DS Steve Beardsmore said: "We are keen to talk to these two men who are the last
witnesses to see the female prior to the assault."

Both men are described as white and between 5ft 6in and 5ft 8in.

One wore a light-coloured long sleeved shirt and dark trousers, the other male
wore dark trousers and shirt, had dark hair and was using crutches.

Residents were alerted to the assault as the woman attempted to get away and
chased the offender towards the town.

He was last seen near the traffic lights at the Kenilworth Road and Lillington
Road junction.

He is white, aged between 25 and 30, slim, around 5ft 10in with a shaved head
and light coloured hair.

He was wearing a white shirt with a Chinese style motif and dark jeans or
trousers.

Any witnesses should ring DS Beardsmore on 01926 451111 or Crimestoppers on 0800
555 111.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 FinancialWire

                                August 23, 2005

CCM SectorOptics Focuses On Cyber-Terrorism In Response To Internet Worm Attacks

LENGTH: 526 words


FinancialWire-23 August 2005-CCM SectorOptics Focuses On Cyber-Terrorism In
Response To Internet Worm Attacks ©2005 Investrend Communications, Inc.

August 23, 2005 (FinancialWire) CCM SectorOptics, a weekly column by Michael
Soni, President & CEO of Cronus Capital Markets (CCM), provides commentary as it
relates to the Homeland Security sector, and other related sectors such as;
Biometrics, RFID, and Nanotechnology. This week s column focused on the growing
problem of Cyber-Terrorism. Some companies profiled in the column were McAfee
(NYSE: MFE), Symantec (NASDAQ: SYMC), Computer Associates (NYSE: CA), and
Internet Security Systems (NASDAQ: ISSX). In the column titled Cyber-Terrorism-
The War Below the Surface , Mr. Soni remarked that The danger of major attack on
western internet infrastructure is considered by experts to be a distant
possibility because of the dollars spent to defend against that possibility.
Having said that, serious attacks do happen and they have the potential to cause
severe damage such as the $2 billion in worldwide economic losses caused by Code
Red in 2001. The entire column can be found at www.ccmsectorinvest.com and
www.securitystockwatch.com CCM SectorInvest (www.ccmsectorinvest.com), the media
arm of Cronus Capital Markets, is an online knowledge center for the investment
and business communities engaged in the following sectors; Homeland Security,
Biometrics, RFID, Nanotechnology, Alternative Energy, Oil & Gas, and Metals.
CCM, in partnership with the International Securities Exchange (ISE), developed
the ISE-CCM Homeland Security Index (ISE: HSX) which currently has options
trading on the ISE.

Cronus Capital Markets partners with Investrend Research
(http://www.investrendrsearch.com) in the development and distribution of the
Homeland Security Research project, including a series of HS sector reports.
Cronus Capital Markets (CCM), with offices in Toronto and New York, is a leading
provider of sector research, intelligence and media to the investment and
business communities. CCM covers the following sectors; Homeland Security,
Biometrics, RFID, Nanotechnology, Alternative Energy, Metals, and Oil and Gas.
For up-to-the-minute news, features and links click on
http://www.financialwire.net FinancialWire is an independent, proprietary news
service of Investrend Information, a division of Investrend Communications, Inc.
It is not a press release service and receives no compensation for its news or
opinions. Other divisions of Investrend, however, provide shareholder
empowerment platforms such as forums, independent research and webcasting. For
more information or to receive the FirstAlert daily summary of news, commentary,
research reports, webcasts, events and conference calls, click on
http://www.investrend.com/contact.asp For a free annual report on a company
mentioned in the news, please click on
http://investrend.ar.wilink.com/?level=279 The FinancialWire NewsFeed is now
available in multiple formats to your site or desktop, free. Click on:
http://www.investrend.com/XmlFeeds?level=268

(Distributed for Investrend Communications, Inc. via M2 Communications Ltd
(www.m2.com)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                     Copyright  2005 M2 Communications Ltd
                              All rights reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           August 24, 2005, Wednesday

TERROR ATTACKS ON OTHER CITIES WARNING

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 251 words


The terrorists behind the London bombings could be preparing attacks on other
British cities in an attempt to inflame relations between Muslims and
non-Muslims, a security think tank has warned.

A briefing paper by the Centre for Defence Studies at King's College, London,
said the Government should now consider a major public inquiry, along the lines
of the 9/11 Commission in the United States, into the terrorist threat.

It called for a "fundamental reassessment" of existing security arrangements in
the light of the London attacks, including basic training in
intelligence-gathering by MI5 for all police officers.

There needed to be greater co-operation and intelligence pooling among the
various agencies involved in counter-terrorism, both within the UK and abroad,
and a more visible security presence on the transport infrastructure, it said.

Professor Michael Clarke, who edited the paper, warned that the terrorists could
now switch their target from London in an attempt to catch the authorities off
guard.

"If there is a controlling hand behind the July attacks, the next phase is
likely to be marked by a determined attempt to mount attacks in cities other
than London, probably against targets other than transport, and using methods
which feature some new novelty," he said.

The paper said there was a "very real fear that an attack may occur in an area
with a large Muslim population, such as Bradford or Leeds, if only to drive a
wedge within that community

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           August 24, 2005, Wednesday

A bio-terror attack is inevitable: are we ready?

BYLINE: Steve Boggan

SECTION: Features; Times2; 4

LENGTH: 2553 words


Every prediction says it's not a question of if, but when we face a chemical
attack. Steve Boggan meets the experts at Porton Down to discover how prepared
we are.

IN MUCH the same way as you might put up a child's painting with jolly fridge
magnets, the scientists at Porton Down put little magnetic labels on the doors
of their research laboratories: Bacillus anthracis, Yersinia pestis -anthrax and
bubonic plague to you and me -and so on. These labels let the people in white
coats know what is beyond those doors before they walk in. The labs are
negatively pressurised so that any leaks are sucked in, not out. Every day, in
they go, the research scientists whose work aims to ensure that you and I
survive one of our worst nightmares: the release of a biological weapon by
terrorists. This is the front line, the hermetically sealed battleground where
preparations are being made for a war we cannot afford to lose.

Terrorism and defence experts, including Eliza Manningham-Buller, the head of
MI5, say it is a matter of when, not if, we have to face the challenge of a
biological, chemical or radiological attack. The question is: are we ready for
it? To find out, I am allowed a rare visit to the Health Protection Agency's
Centre for Emergency Preparedness and Response at Porton Down, Wiltshire, where,
for almost 100 years, scientists have conducted research into biological and
chemical agents -today, strictly for defensive purposes. Not only do experts
work on the actual bacteria and organisms that terrorists might choose, they
also act as the hub and control centre for planning the response to any
chemical, biological or radiological attack.

One reason for that is the proximity, next door, of the Defence, Science and
Technology Laboratory (DSTL), the Ministry of Defence-operated facility that
carries out research into chemical weapons such as sarin, the nerve agent
released on the Tokyo underground system in 1995. That attack, by the Aum
Shinrikyo cult, killed 12 people and affected 5,000 more.

At the HPA's section of the complex, scientists spend most of their time
protecting citizens against naturally occurring diseases. Some, such as West
Nile virus, could be brought into the country by innocent carriers from abroad.
But the scientists also produce vaccines and antidotes to combat the more
sinister organisms that they fear terrorists might already have identified as
their weapons of choice.

After 9/11 widespread panic was caused across the US when anthrax spores
scientifically tailored as weapons were mailed to US government offices, killing
five people and infecting 22 others over two months. Ricin, a toxin produced
from castor beans -and which a small group of terrorists was caught trying to
manufacture in London -was also mailed to the White House and the US Senate in
2003. The risks, therefore, are real. So what is being done to protect you and
your children?

The scientists at the Centre for Emergency Preparedness and Response have been
co-ordinating planning for attacks involving anthrax, plague, tularemia,
smallpox and other bacteria since the HPA was set up in April 2003. It is funded
by the Department of Health, but reports only to the Secretary of State for
Health. At the lab that the photographer David Bebber and I are allowed to
visit, the magnetic signs tell us that anthrax, bubonic plague and tularemia
have all been recent visitors.After passing through a pressurised chamber the
lab appears surprisingly low-tech, save for the microbiological safety tanks
where cultures are handled through toughened rubber sleeves. The seriously
high-tech equipment is in another part of the building, where new vaccines are
being developed. We are not allowed to say where this laboratory is.

The man in charge here is a microbiologist, Allen Roberts, who goes by the
exotic title of Group Leader, Novel and Dangerous Pathogens. In the event of a
biological weapon release, his team has the task of quickly -very quickly
-identifying the disease. He and his colleagues have all been vaccinated against
the worst risks, including anthrax.

"We have a 24-hour capability, with four teams of four working a seven-day rota,
one week on, one week off," he says. "In the case of an emergency we have people
permanently in contact with pagers. If we are sent samples from a potential
outbreak, it is no good growing cultures or having tests that take 48 hours
because people need to be treated immediately.

"We have developed tests using the DNA of the pathogen (the organism that causes
a disease) so we can tell health specialists what we are dealing with, sometimes
within six hours."

Working in the lab today are Debbie Nash and Steve Welch. The latter, a
molecular biologist who helped to develop the fast diagnostic tests, says: "We
spend most of our time analysing samples from outbreaks of diseases that occur
naturally, but we are ready for a deliberate release. There is a sense here that
our work could be vital in saving lives.

"When I talk about my work to friends I find that they are a little more alarmed
than they should be. Yes, our work is potentially dangerous, but there are tried
and tested regimens in place and safety is paramount. The diseases we work on
are treatable. There are other scientists here working on diseases that are
potentially fatal."

Indeed there are. We are in what is known as a Containment Level 3 lab. In the
level 4 facilities, whose locations are a closely guarded secret, haemorrhagic
diseases such as ebola -commonly known as a flesh-eating disorder -are being
studied. Any accidental exposure to those could result in death. On a lower
floor is the emergency response control centre headed by Dr Nigel Lightfoot, the
director of Emergency Response Capability, and Gordon MacDonald, the head of
Emergency Strategic Planning. There are no flashing lights or military-style
command displays; just people hitting the phones, watching their computers and
monitoring 24-hour news channels. Across the country, in nine regional centres,
there are 2,700 HPA staff, 460 of them here.

Lightfoot and MacDonald describe themselves as "co-ordinators, not doers".

Quietly, over the past few years, they have been pulling together skills that
already existed among medical staff and the emergency services so that a
response to any chemical, biological and radiological attack should run like
clockwork. "We have had simulated exercises involving up to 200 people from the
emergency services, hospitals and local authorities where there has been an
imaginary release of sarin, a smallpox outbreak, a dirty bomb, a release of
chlorine gas, and so on, all over the country," says Lightfoot. "In each case,
we get the emergency and health services together and throw a problem at them to
see how they would respond. From each exercise we've learnt new lessons and
implemented them.

We are improving all the time, but if you were to ask are we ready, I would say
yes.

"We shouldn't be complacent, but it is important for the public to realise that
while there would be deaths, as there would be in conventional attack using
explosives, there would not be the kind of widespread catastrophe that they
might imagine."

MacDonald adds: "In the event of a biological release, we'd begin to see a
picture emerge in the same way as we would monitor, say, a flu outbreak. We have
systems in place for GPs to report people displaying certain symptoms and we get
feedback from the NHS Direct helpline. The Department of Health's Emergency
Operations Centre in London would then co-ordinate a response based on the
analysis of pathogens at the labs here.

"We then initiate a programme of tracing people with whom victims have come into
contact and what we call 'ring vaccination'. People most closely exposed are
treated with the relevant medicines, while we give prophylactic vaccines to stop
the disease spreading. That is how smallpox was eradicated in the 1970s. We are
not saying that there might not be fatalities, but we could prevent any
widespread disaster."

So what about the deliberate release of a chemical or nerve agent? "The most
likely release would have to be in an enclosed space, such as the Tube system,
because these agents disperse and become harmless very quickly in open spaces,"
says Lightfoot. "The first people on the scene would be the emergency services,
particularly the fire service. They have protective clothing and equipment to
establish whether the release is chemical or radiological."

Immediately, a Multi-Agency Incident Assessment Team (MAIAT) would be sent in.

These operate from specially equipped vehicles that circulate permanently, ready
to attend any emergency. It is known that the MAIAT vehicles operate in London,
but the HPA will not say whether they are operating outside the capital.

"Once an assessment is made, victims would be taken away from the incident as
soon as possible. In the event of a nerve-agent attack they would be given
atropine, an antidote that can save lives if administered quickly," says
Lightfoot.

"All ambulance services have nerve-agent antidotes. Again, let us not pretend
that there would not be fatalities, but they could be limited by swift action.
Twelve people died in the Tokyo incident, which was a tragedy, but you might
argue that more would have died in a conventional explosion. So the main effect
here would be psychological, and would not necessarily result in more deaths
than a conventional attack."

But what about a dirty bomb? Surely that would be catastrophic? Again, not
necessarily. The MAIAT teams or fire services, which have radiation detectors,
and police would quickly remove people from the scene and put them in mobile
decontamination units -mobile showers, in effect -to remove radioactive
particles.

"Those closest to the release would be worst affected, but the most serious
damage would be caused by the actual explosion," says Dr Michael Clark, of the
HPA's Radiation Protection Division. "By its very nature, as the radioactive
substance was dispersed, it would become less dangerous to human health. There
might be areas that would have to be evacuated for a time and decontaminated,
but the worst-affected area would be relatively small."

According to Clark, the actual construction of a dirty bomb mitigates against
its effectiveness. The most likely radioactive source would have to be built up
over time by gathering industrial or medical radioactive substances rather than
by using a source used in making a nuclear weapon. Such fissile material is not
necessarily highly radioactive in itself. "They'd try to get hold of caesium
137, cobalt-60, strontium-90 or irridium-192 in small amounts over time," he
says. "But being exposed to that would make them very sick very quickly. Within
days they wouldn't be able to function and would die. Even with people prepared
to commit suicide, that would require a large team to steal the sources, make
the bomb and deliver it. They could survive longer with small amounts but that
would make a dirty bomb less effective."

But isn't this simply a group of government boffins trying to make us feel a
little less frightened? Not necessarily. Independent experts I spoke to
generally agreed with the HPA's assessments. Professor Christopher Bellamy, the
director of the Security Studies Institute at Cranfield University, says:
"Historically, the use of chemical or biological weapons has been regarded as
unreliable and indiscriminate by armed forces. That might not deter terrorists
because their aim is not efficient killing.

"Similarly with radiological weapons. If you evenly distributed 1kg of a highly
radioactive substance across London -which is quite an amount -the readings
would be above EU safety levels, but they would be unlikely to do any serious
harm.

"The terrorists might achieve their aim -to terrify people -but the casualties
would probably not be high."

Michael Clarke, Professor of Defence Studies at King's College London, agrees.

"Photogenically, there is nothing like an explosion for terrorists to get their
message across. In terms of killing people, that is still the most effective.
Any chemical, biological or radiological attack would appear so sinister that it
would raise fear levels in any population, but the actual effects need not be
disastrous."

It is only natural, then, that we should be afraid of such attacks and prepare
for them, but their main aim would be to cause maximum panic rather than maximum
casualties.

Much has been made recently of the brave response of Londoners to the bombings
on 7/7 and their determination not to be intimidated by terrorists. "We Are Not
Afraid" has become a catchphrase. So a chemical, biological or radiological
attack might not kill or maim any more of us than a simple, terrible bombing.
But it would surely be a time to find out just how stiff that upper lip really
is.

TOXIC THREATS

BIOLOGICAL weapons use diseases that occur naturally, but can be made and
disseminated deliberately. They include:

* Anthrax (Bacillus anthracis, see picture). Occurs most commonly in the wild in
cattle, sheep and other herbivores, but can affect humans if they are exposed to
infected animals or from spores prepared in a lab. Symptoms resemble a common
cold, with severe breathing problems. Not fatal if treated in time with
antibiotics.

* Plague (Yersinia pestis). There are three forms: bubonic, passed on by flea
bites; pneumonic, which can be passed from person to person (though this would
require production and dissemination in an aerosol form, which would be hard to
achieve); and septicaemic, which occurs when the bacteria multiply in the blood.

Symptoms include swollen lymph glands. Can be treated with antibiotics.

* Tularemia (Francisella tularensis). Highly virulent and infectious, it can be
ingested or breathed in, but cannot be passed from person to person. It need not
be fatal if treated quickly with antibiotics.

* Smallpox. Possibly the most feared, given that it was supposed to have been
eradicated four decades ago. Small stocks are said to exist in two top security
laboratories in the US and Russia, but fears remain that terrorists might get
hold of live samples. Symptoms include fever and vomiting, followed by the
appearance of a rash that develops into large, pustulous spots. There is enough
vaccine to treat everyone in the UK.

* Other bacteria, such as botulism and salmonella, can be administered to food
sources to cause illness and panic.

CHEMICAL weapons began with agents such as mustard gas, which caused blistering
of eyes, skin and lungs, before progressing to nerve agents that attack the
central nervous system, causing muscle spasms, convulsions, collapse of the
respiratory system and death. Nerve agents include sarin, tabun, soman and VX;
toxic gases include chlorene, hydrogen cyanide and phosgene. Can be disseminated
using bombs, missiles or aerosol spraying systems.

THE scenario that causes the most disquiet is the "dirty bomb": radioactive
material scattered into the environment using a conventional explosive device.
The fear is that this might result in radiation poisoning and incidence of
cancers for years to come.


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is The NorthEast

                                August 24, 2005

Woman tells of beating terror in rape attack 15 years ago

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 306 words

DATELINE: The North East


A TERRIFIED woman who was beaten up and raped in a car park stairwell 15 years
ago told police she feared for her life.

The victim who cannot be named said she fought back desperately against her
alleged attacker a schoolboy.

But she was punched and kicked before being sexually assaulted and raped
Teesside Crown Court heard yesterday.

She had been returning to her car after a Christmas party in December 1989 when
she was pounced on in a multi-storey car park near the Swallow Hotel in Bridge
Road Stockton.

The court was told that the 27-year-old woman from Middlesbrough was dazed and
bleeding following the late-night ordeal which lasted for 20 minutes.

In a statement to police read out to the jury she said: "I pleaded with him why
are you doing this?

"He said: 'Shut up or you will make it worse.' I tried to fight back. I tried to
grab his crotch to hurt him.

"He was punching me so hard I was not able to do anything. I was overpowered. I
was terrified for my life.

"He kept saying I love you I love you.

"The attack was vicious and the incident terrified me."

Former soldier Andrew Russell 31 of Prenton The Wirral Merseyside formerly of
Stockton is on trial for rape and attempted buggery.

The rape case was closed in 1991 after the police failed to find the attacker
despite extensive efforts but it was re-opened last year under a Home Office
initiative.

The prosecution told the jury that evidence was tested for DNA and revealed that
the chance of Mr Russell a labourer not being the rapist was a one in 351
million.

In evidence Kirsty Potter a forensic scientist said it was an extremely
conservative evaluation but if a full DNA profile of Mr Russell had been
obtained instead of a partial one the figure would have been one in a billion
chance.

The trial continues

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                      August 26, 2005 Friday 12:43 PM GMT

Singapore takes terrorist attack threat seriously - home ministry

LENGTH: 303 words


SINGAPORE (AFX) - Singapore is taking a reported terrorist threat to Asian
financial capitals seriously even though it has no information of any imminent
danger, a home affairs ministry spokesman said.

'In the light of a global terrorist threat and our own experience in the Jemaah
Islamiyah episode, our security agencies have taken measures over the last few
years to strengthen security at our borders, key infrastructure and iconic
buildings,' the spokesman told Agence France-Presse.

The Financial Times quoted French anti-terrorist supremo Jean-Louis Bruguiere as
saying cities such as Tokyo, Singapore or Sydney could be attacked by Al-Qaeda
to undermine investor confidence in the region.

Bruguiere, who has been tracking terrorists since the 1980s, was quoted as
saying 'we have elements of information that make us think that countries in
this region, especially Japan, could have been targeted' by Al-Qaeda.

More than 30 Muslim Singaporeans suspected of belonging to alleged Al-Qaeda
affiliate Jemaah Islamiyah are currently being held under the Internal Security
Act, which allows for detention without trial for up to two years.

US, Israeli and other potential terrorist targets in Singapore have imposed
tight security since the Sept 2001 attacks in the United States.

The home ministry said the police, Singapore Civil Defence Force and Internal
Security Department have worked with building managements and owners, including
those in the financial sector, to boost security.

'We recognize that, like any other country, Singapore can face a terrorist
attack,' said the home ministry, which oversees internal security.

'Hence we have been (doing), and will do, all that we can to prevent it, and if
it should occur, to ensure that the social cohesion of our multi-ethnic society
is preserved,' it added.

rc/mba/dv/swp

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            August 26, 2005, Friday

BRITON DIES IN TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 63 words


A Briton has been stabbed to death in Jerusalem.

Shmuel Matt, 21, who was studying at a Jewish seminary, was attacked in the Old
City.

The suspected killer was a young Palestinian and police believe it was a
terrorist attack. Mr Matt was knifed as he walked in a main shopping street .

He was with a friend, American student Sammy Weissbard, 20, who was injured

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                August 26, 2005

De Menezes 'shot for 30 seconds': Witness feared terrorists were attacking train
as police fired at Brazilian, leaked statement reveals

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd and Hugh Muir

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 803 words


Armed police officers fired at Jean Charles de Menezes for over 30 seconds when
they killed him at Stockwell tube station, according to a witness statement made
to independent investigators and obtained by the Guardian.

The witness says the shots were fired at intervals of three seconds and that she
ran for her life fearing terrorists had opened fire on commuters.

The death of the innocent Brazilian, who was mistaken for a suicide bomber, is
being investigated by the Independent Police Complaints Commission.

Much of the immediate eyewitness evidence after the shooting proved to be wrong.

But the witness correctly said that 11 shots were fired - a fact which was not
made public at the time.

The account from Sue Thomason, a freelance journalist from south London, gives
new detail of the shooting and of the terror witnesses endured.

In her statement she says: "The shots were evenly spaced with about three
seconds between the shots, for the first few shots, then a gap of a little
longer, then the shots were evenly spaced again."

Mr de Menezes was killed on July 22 on a tube train after being followed from
his flat by undercover officers and soldiers who were hunting terrorists behind
failed bombing attacks on London on July 21.

On the morning of July 22 Ms Thomason was on her way to work, and was reading a
book as the train pulled into Stockwell.

Her statement to the IPCC says: "When the tube was stationary at the platform at
Stockwell I recall shouting, it was a male's voice, it may have come from more
than one male. People then started to get out of their seats and look in the
direction where the shouting was coming from.

"I recall hearing gunshots. . . The shooting was coming from the carriage to the
left of me. When I heard the gunshots I thought it was terrorists firing into
the crowd. I thought about getting behind a seat. . . After the initial first
shots. . . I left the carriage."

She and other commuters started running along the platform to leave the station.

Her statement continues: "While I was making my way to the escalator I remember
hearing more shots coming from behind me. I thought that I would be shot in the
back. . . Half way up the escalator I remember looking behind me and hearing two
more shots. . . "Once I got outside the station my legs went.

"I would say there was 10 or 11 shots fired. The shots were . . . evenly spaced
out (timewise)."

She says two IPCC investigators who interviewed her were equipped with a map of
Stockwell tube which had key features in the wrong place. This initially led
them wrongly to challenge her account.

In an email of complaint to the IPCC she wrote: "If the people investigating
such a serious matter. . . can't even get the plan of the station correct for
interviewees to point out where they were, then what chance does the rest of the
case have?"

She also says a key detail she gave of the number of shots and the interval
between them was missed from her final statement until she insisted it be
included: "I'm not anti the IPCC, I just want them to get it right."

The IPCC last night said it was unable to comment on the witness statement but
in a separate development announced that it had received - and rejected - a
complaint from a Scotland Yard firearms officer.

The officer had lodged the complaint over comments made by IPCC director John
Wadham last week when he spoke of the Metropolitan police's "resistance" to the
IPCC running the inquiry.

Government plans to crack down on alleged extremists after the attacks on London
will today come under attack from a coalition of politicians, unions, pressure
groups, faith groups and writers who state their "grave concerns".

The initiative, led by the mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, and launched with a
letter to the Guardian, involves signatories from groups such as Liberty, the
Muslim Council of Britain, Unison, the GMB, the Refugee Council and the Green
party - as well as Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Mark Oaten, for mer
ministers Frank Dobson and Tony Lloyd, Labour peers Lord Bhatia and Lord Ahmed
and the Very Reverend Colin Slee, the Dean of Southwark.

In the statement, the group says: "We support the police and measures against
those who plan, support or carry out such terrorist attacks.

"However, a number of the security measures which the government has said it is
considering risk criminalising or excluding people who condemn terrorist attacks
and whose cooperation is indispensable to the work of the police in fighting
terrorism."

Meanwhile, a study in the online version of the British Medical Journal today
reveals that almost a third of Londoners suffered serious stress after the July
7 attacks.

Letters, page 29

guardian.co.uk/terrorism


LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                August 26, 2005

Families blighted by wave of terror - Sectarian attacks - Community tortured by
thugs want end to attacks;
 The lives of more and more families are being blighted by daily violence in
north Belfast. Chief Reporter Sharon O'Neill visits a community wondering why
the authorities cannot stop it

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 834 words


Looking for directions to the home petrol and paint bombed in Cliftondene
Crescent, a distressed middle-aged woman peered through the car window: "She's
not here. She won't be back. Who can blame her with three children."

By mid-morning yesterday a line had formed outside the homes of Catholic
families in the north Belfast street - plain-clothed police, Housing Executive
officials and members of the press.

Neighbours milled about the mixed area - clearly disgusted by the loyalist
attacks in broad daylight on Wednesday and fearful of what the coming weeks will
bring.

Shaking her head as she looked at one of the houses - a living room window
boarded up testament to the horror of what happened 18 hours earlier - a woman
passing through to the neighbouring Oldpark area said to an elderly man: "It's
terrible, shocking. I went to bed last night feeling very uneasy."

For those inside - the Grew family - it was the final straw.

Husband Gareth had just gone out for a run when a loyalist gang struck at around
5.25pm on Wednesday.

Wife Catherine was in the living room with 13-week-old Lorcan when she heard
glass breaking.

Her two-year-old son Fionn and his six-year-old friend were happily playing
outside.

When she went out to see what was happening, Catherine was confronted by a
loyalist petrol bomber.

He ignored her cries to stop, and hurled the lit device at her, missing the
mother-of-three by inches.

She ran back inside - and as she grabbed the telephone to ring for help, close
to where Lorcan was playing a paint bomb came crashing through the window
showering the baby with glass.

Mr Grew said yesterday: "There is no doubt it was attempted murder. I can't see
the sense in all this.

"This was going to happen, the police would say resources were put over at
Alliance and Hesketh ... but this street has been hit twice in the last three
months."

The family were targeted by paint bombers before, when Catherine had just given
birth to Lorcan.

Gareth is not surprised the attack occurred during the day: "I would not have
expected anything else.

"This time it is not an option staying, we are going."

As the supermarket manager arrived back at his home, one Protestant pensioner
who has lived in the street for more than 30 years, waved at his Catholic
neighbour.

Pointing at Mr Grew he said: "That fella is awful nice you know, you couldn't
get nicer.

"The woman was running about ... minding the kiddies.

"They (the attackers) didn't care ... they don't live in this district. I don't
want to see it again."

Another Catholic man, who did not want to be named, was back to work yesterday
after his windows were smashed in the same street. No-one was in at the time.

"I am disgusted," he said.

"If the paramilitaries were behind it, it would take very little to incite young
people on both sides these days.

"But with things being tit for tat, many young people do take it upon
themselves, but there is no justification for it."

On Tuesday the home of 82-year-old Protestant John Mussen was paint bombed in
Hesketh Road in upper Ardoyne.

Despite the attack, and that at Cliftondene Crescent, there was no police Land
Rover visible in either area at lunch-time yesterday.

A Protestant pensioner living in Twadell Avenue is equally sick of the daily and
nightly attacks as those victims on the other side of the interface.

The 85-year-old, who did not want to be named, said: "It is shameful. They are
gangsters. I detest it."

With sectarian street rioting on a nightly basis as well as attacks on the most
vulnerable, children as young as six have been linked to the wave of violence.

But Mr Grew insisted: "It wasn't kids. Four men in combat gear were seen."

Unlike previous years, claims of paramilitary involvement have been surprisingly
muted during this spate of trouble, which has instead fuelled a debate on
general lawlessness in society.

Sinn Fein councillor Danny Lavery said: "On our side, there are no
paramilitaries involved, it is all 14 and 15 year olds.

"Loyalist paramilitaries have said they are not involved, but they could do more
to stop it."

DUP assembly member Nelson McCausland said: "There is ritual stone throwing
which tends to involve younger people. I think that is true on both sides.

"Then there is another level where you have orchestrated attacks.

"I would assume there is an involvement (of paramilitaries) on both sides," he
added.

However, conflict resolution expert Dr Neil Jarman said: "The paramilitaries
aren't always involved in this sort of disorder.

"There is an element of which the young people are out of control.

"On July 12 Sinn Fein and community leaders couldn't control the (rioters).

"It is not organised at the moment. It is not what either side particularly
want.

"They are struggling to keep it under control. It is more apparent this year
than in previous years."

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                August 26, 2005

Families blighted by wave of terror - Sectarian attacks - Pensioner in shock
after home attacked;

BYLINE: Catherine Morrison

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 514 words


A north Belfast pensioner recovering from a stroke whose home was attacked with
petrol bombs has said he just wants to be left in peace.

George Williams (78) has had two strokes which have left him with speech
difficulties.

His home in the nationalist Alliance Avenue was targeted by petrol bombers in
the early hours of Thursday.

Police said four devices were thrown at the rear of the house, which backs
directly onto the 'peace line' with loyalist Glenbryn Park.

The bombs were hurled over the 30-foot fence, bouncing off window grills. They
left scorch marks on Mr Williams' wall and guttering.

Damage was also caused to his next-door neighbour's back garden.

A number of unexploded petrol bombs were seized by police for forensic
examination.

Mr Williams said he had been left shocked and upset by the attack.

"I was in bed asleep and I didn't hear anything until the ambulances and police
arrived," he said.

"The next thing I know the police had broken the door down and there was a
police officer standing at the top of the stairs.

"I would love to know where they get the strength to throw the bombs over the
peace line."

His elderly neighbour, who did not want to be named, said the attack brought
back frightening memories of three years ago, when a blast bomb thrown across
the peace line hit her oil tank at the height of the Holy Cross protests.

"I haven't stopped crying since last night," she said.

"I am deaf and lip-read so I did not know what was happening. And I was at the
hospital yesterday for a scan which I was already very worried about and then
this happens.

"We seem to get this all the time. I am dreading the dark nights, because it
gets worse then."

It was the latest attack in a wave of sectarian violence in the Ardoyne area in
recent days.

Sinn Fein councillor Margaret McClenaghan said it may only be a matter of time
before someone is killed.

"Unionist representatives are not doing enough to stop this. The situation is
that we have representatives of the unionist community sitting on the same
forums as unionist paramilitaries and still this is going on," she said.

"If this violence continues, someone could lose their life. In fact, I am
surprised someone hasn't been killed already."

SDLP North Belfast assembly member Alban Maginness said the entire community was
suffering as a result of the attacks.

"These are appalling incidents and they follow a particular pattern - they are
largely tit-for-tat and they are motivated by sectarian hatred," he said.

"Sooner or later someone will be seriously injured if not worse."

North Belfast DUP MP Nigel Dodds said he was "disgusted and appalled" by the
continuing attacks.

"The very elderly, the sick and disabled and even young children have all been
the target over recent days of a series of vicious attacks on homes across north
Belfast," he said.

"From speaking to people and my contacts with them on the ground, I know there
is absolutely no justification for this violence whatsoever."

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                August 26, 2005

Families blighted by wave of terror - Sectarian attacks - Minister promises thug
'crack down';

BYLINE: Catherine Morrison

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 397 words


Police are examining CCTV footage of a north Belfast flashpoint in a bid to
identify the sectarian thugs behind a wave of attacks on homes in the area.

The move came as NIO security minister Shaun Woodward promised to "crack down"
on those behind the almost nightly violence at interface flashpoints in Ardoyne.

Mr Woodward said police were working "extremely hard" in the midst of continuing
attacks in the area.

He was speaking after loyalist youths were blamed for showering a
three-month-old baby with glass and paint.

"All these attacks are absolutely appalling. It needs a community response and
it needs an effective police response," Mr Woodward said.

"We are going to crack down on it. We are determined that these attacks will not
be a way of life."

Four people have been arrested after loyalist and nationalist youths threw
stones and other missiles at each other at a north Belfast interface at
lunchtime yesterday.

There were no reports of any injuries during the disturbances on the Limestone
Road.

The trouble followed a night of violence, which saw nationalist and loyalist
homes come under attack.

Three children, including a 13-week-old baby, were showered with paint and glass
during an attack on a house in the nationalist Cliftondene Gardens area at
around 5.30pm on Wednesday.

A petrol bomb was also thrown in the attack, setting fire to the hall carpet.

The family has decided not to return to their home.

Stones and other missiles were also thrown at loyalist homes in Glenbryn and
Twadell Avenue and windows were smashed at a Protestant family's home in nearby
Alliance Gardens.

Police said up to 30 youths threw paint, golf balls and a smaller number of
petrol bombs at officers in the Brompton and Cranbrook areas.

The violence lasted around two hours with police saying community
representatives worked with them to restore calm.

Police Land Rovers were also pelted with a range of missiles including golf
balls, paint bombs and some petrol bombs.

Later, four petrol bombs were thrown at the homes of two pensioners in Alliance
Avenue. No-one was injured in the attack but the man and woman, who are both in
their seventies, were left shaken.

On Tuesday night, the home of 82-year-old cancer sufferer John Mussen in the
loyalist Hesketh Road was targeted in a paintbomb attack.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                August 26, 2005

Families blighted by wave of terror - Sectarian attacks;
 Comedian defends loyalist estate against 'demonisation'

BYLINE: Barry McCaffrey

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 571 words


An Irish/American comedian last night defended a loyalist housing estate after
media reports connected it to the murder of Catholic teenager Thomas Devlin.

Des Bishop, left, whose fly-on-the-wall documentaries have been a hit on RTE,
raised concerns that the Mount Vernon estate in north Belfast was being unfairly
'demonised'.

Following the murder of Thomas Devlin earlier this month it was reported that
three men arrested and questioned were from Mount Vernon.

Earlier this week, Mount Vernon mothers Moyra Wylie and Evelyn Quail condemned
the murder and told how they had visited the scene to pay their respects.

"We placed cards and flowers at the spot where he was killed, but we were too
afraid to write that we were Mount Vernon mothers in case they were ripped up,"
Ms Quail, whose son was murdered during a UVF/UDA feud in 2001, said.

"The fact that the media has blamed the people of Mount Vernon for the young
lad's death means that his family are going to think that people from this
estate don't condemn his murder.

"We do - it was totally wrong and our thoughts go out to his family."

Mr Bishop had been spending three weeks in Mount Vernon at the time of Thomas
Devlin's murder.

"It was a tragedy and I was horrified like everyone else," he said.

"I was surprised when the media centred on Mount Vernon, because people on the
estate insisted that the killers weren't from the estate."

The comedian also said he believes the media is missing the positive work being
done by the people of Mount Vernon.

"The TV series is about me staying in some of the hardest estates around
Ireland, but Mount Vernon seemed quite normal," he said.

"Before we went there we thought it would be some kind of insane world because
of the media image.

"When we got there we were a bit disappointed - I had a great time with the
people in Mount Vernon, but from a TV perspective it was boringly disappointing.

"I am not saying Mount Vernon is perfect, they have social problems like
everywhere else.

"The UVF is on the estate, but there are paramilitaries on every working-class
estate in Belfast.

"I think it is just disappointing that the positive work being done in Mount
Vernon is not being reported."

Former PUP councillor Billy Hutchinson, a community worker on the estate,
insisted that no-one from Mount Vernon was questioned about the Devlin murder.

"No-one from Mount Vernon was questioned about that attack, no houses or flats
on the estate were searched," he said.

"The people questioned about that killing were not from this estate."

Insisting that serious efforts were being made to improve Mount Vernon's image,
he added: "This is a working-class loyalist area but we are working hard on
cross-community issues.

"We are working with groups from the New Lodge and Ballymun in Dublin. Kids from
this estate go on holidays with nationalist kids from Newington every year.

"We have people from other communities coming and working with us all the time.
This year we had a cultural festival for people from local ethnic minority
communities.

"We also had a cricket match with people from the Indian community, a
cross-community football tournament and a community festival to bring the youth
and elderly on the estate together.

"We are working hard to improve Mount Vernon's image but the media don't seem
interested."

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                August 26, 2005

Families blighted by wave of terror - Sectarian attacks - Petrol bomb rips
through home;

BYLINE: Maeve Connolly

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 462 words


A melted television set shows the intense heat from the flames that ripped
through a Co Antrim home after a petrol-bomb attack, which police are treating
as sectarian.

The device was thrown through the kitchen window of the property, close to the
village of Mosside.

It caused extensive damage, destroying cupboards and work tops, cracking windows
and melting light fittings, a TV set, glass and even darts stuck in a board on a
wall.

'Taigs out' was also daubed on an outside wall during the attack, which is
thought to have taken place at around 11pm on Wednesday.

The Castle Park property belongs to a 22-year-old Catholic who had moved in at
Christmas.

Yesterday neighbours in the small development called in to express their shock.

The man, who did not wish to be named, arrived home shortly before 1am yesterday
after a family celebration. He initially thought an electrical appliance had
been left on and started a fire in the kitchen.

A police spokesman appealed for anyone who noticed any suspicious activity in
the area between 10.30pm and 1am to contact detectives.

Politicians have condemned the attack, which is the latest in a sectarian
campaign by loyalists across north Antrim.

A number of Catholic families have been forced to leave Ahoghill, while paint
bombs have been hurled at Catholic churches in Ballymena and pipe bombs left
outside homes in Cloughmills.

SDLP North Antrim assembly member Sean Farren said the petrol bomb could have
been "a murderous weapon" and called for "robust police action" to catch those
responsible.

"There must be no hiding place for sectarian attackers in either community.
There must be forthright, non-selective condemnation by political and community
leaders because too often sectarian thugs can take silence as condoning their
actions," he said.

The DUP said the "nasty and vicious attack" had struck fear into a rural
community.

North Antrim assembly member Ian Paisley jnr said police should investigate if
it had been a case of mistaken identity.

"But that aside, nothing justifies attacks of this nature," he said.

Sinn Fein assembly member Phillip McGuigan said it was "just the tip of the
iceberg when it comes to attacks upon vulnerable nationalist communities in
north Antrim".

"I want to reiterate my belief that the DUP and others, who sit on forums and
commissions with the leaderships of the UDA and UVF, can help bring about an end
to these attacks," he said.

Mr McGuigan added that the DUP had an obligation to face down loyalists "intent
on fermenting sectarian division".

Meanwhile, UUP assembly member Robert Coulter appealed for calm and said the
government's demilitarisation package had been shown to be a mistake.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                August 26, 2005

Families blighted by wave of terror - Sectarian attacks - Four men freed after
ice-cream attack;

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 376 words


Four "footsoldiers" of loyalist paramilitaries claiming to control the ice cream
trade in south Antrim have been freed after being caught on video attacking an
undercover policeman in an ice-cream van.

Belfast Crown Court heard that moments earlier, the officer, who was posing as
an ice-cream seller, had been ordered from the Castlemara estate in
Carrickfergus by two UDA men.

Freeing the four, Judge Norman Lockie said he was willing to make a distinction
between them and the two UDA men, who were not before the court.

Three of the Carrickfergus men, John Steven Millar (38), from Castlemara Drive,
Robert Glen Murray (29), of Carnhill Walk, and 20-year-old Thomas McCrea, of no
fixed abode, were freed when their jail terms were suspended.

The fourth Co Antrim man, Mark Gourley (32), of Dean Park, was put on probation
for 18 months.

They had all pleaded guilty to assault causing actual bodily harm to the
policeman and causing criminal damage to his ice-cream van.

Prosecuting lawyer Charles McKay told the court that on May 20 2003 police began
an undercover investigation into a UDA extortion racket in the loyalist estate
in Carrickfergus.

Posing as an ice-cream man for 'Rainbow Ices', he said an officer named as
'John' was approached by two UDA men who told him they controlled ice cream
sales in the area, with one even boasting that he also "run Larne and all".

Unaware they were being taped, Mr McKay said the men told 'John' he could not
sell ice-cream without first registering with the UDA and ordered him out of the
Castlemara estate.

Mr McKay said that the undercover officer was told "the ice-cream business was
controlled by either the UDA or UVF" in south Antrim.

The lawyer said that as 'John' drove from the estate, there was an "orchestrated
attack" on his ice-cream van by the accused and a number of other men armed with
golf clubs, batons and stones, which was captured on video.

Mr McKay said the video was later used to identify the four accused, whom he
described as "footsoldiers".

Lawyers for the four said they were "not in the same league" as the two UDA men.

They said that the men had been involved only in throwing a few stones before
running off.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                August 26, 2005

Families blighted by wave of terror - Sectarian attacks;
 Pioneer of parades initiative to step down for retirement

BYLINE: Seamus McKinney

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 457 words


A Co Derry businessman who chaired the talks process which led to parades
agreement in the city between the three main loyal orders and the Bogside
residents' group is to step down.

Garvan O'Doherty who led Derry's parades initiative for almost 10 years told The
Irish News last night he intends giving up his chairmanship following this
year's Apprentice Boys Lundy's Day march in December.

Mr O'Doherty said that with the progress made in securing deals with the Orange
Order, the Royal Black and the Apprentice Boys, he intended retiring for
personal, business and family reasons.

The businessman also warned that a special effort should be made this autumn to
secure a long-term deal between the Apprentice Boys and Bogside residents group.

While the loyal order's parades have been virtually trouble free in recent
years, no accommodation has ever been reached over contentious feeder parades.

Mr O'Doherty, left, said: "It has been a privilege to have worked with all sides
towards long-term agreements."

He hoped the Derry model could eventually be adapted to other parts of Northern
Ireland.

Mr O'Doherty's involvement with the parades issue came after serious violence
broke out during a number of Apprentice Boys marches in Derry, causing millions
of pounds worth of damage to the city's economy.

Following tentative discussions, a breakthrough was made when the loyal order
engaged in talks with the Bogside residents' group, leading to recent parades
being virtually trouble-free.

The Royal Black Preceptory also secured a deal through the Derry talks process.

But Mr O'Doherty's greatest success came earlier this year when a deal was
secured with the Orange Order which had until then steadfastly refused to enter
negotiations with residents' groups.

The Orange Order deal was done through a series of talks involving a wide range
of groups including the Bogside residents' group.

Mr O'Doherty said he would remain involved in the talks process over the autumn
in preparation for December's Lundy's Day or Closing of the Gates march in Derry
but would step down after that.

The businessman said he was keen to reach a long term solution to the marching
problem in the city.

He said all sides would be coming together for talks next month in a drive to
find accommodation over Apprentice Boys' feeder parades.

Mr O'Doherty said it was particularly important that a deal be reached this
autumn as there could be other changes in personnel involved in the talks after
December.

He said he was pleased with the achievements of the talks process to date.

"Who would have thought 10 years ago that we could have come as far as we have,"
Mr O'Doherty added.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                August 26, 2005

Families blighted by wave of terror - Sectarian attacks - Intervention by
Republic needed: SF;

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 243 words


Sinn Fein tackled NIO security minister Shaun Woodward on sectarian violence in
north Antrim at Stormont yesterday.

Dublin MEP Mary Lou McDonald and north Antrim representative Philip McGuigan
also raised ongoing strife in north and east Belfast at the meeting.

Speaking afterwards Ms McDonald said: "The incidents, particularly in the Short
Strand and north Antrim, were orchestrated and they were clearly targeted at
vulnerable Catholic and nationalist homes and communities."

The party had earlier called for politicians and the public to attend a rally
outside the GPO in O'Connell Street to support northern Catholics and
nationalists.

During visits to north Antrim and east Belfast on Wednesday, Ms McDonald said
the Republic's government needed to intervene as the violence continues to
escalate.

"There have been over 100 attacks by loyalist paramilitaries against the
nationalist communities of Belfast and Antrim over the last three weeks," Ms
McDonald said.

"Dublin must not stand idly by while nationalists in Antrim stand unprotected
before the loyalist onslaught."

Mr McGuigan said the latest attack was just the tip of the iceberg for
nationalist communities in his area.

"Pipe bombs, paint bombs, attacks upon churches, homes and schools have become
the norm.

"These attacks have been allowed to become the norm because of the ambivalence
of many unionist political representatives," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                August 26, 2005

CHURCH OF SCIENTOLOGY: Youth of different religions and countries stand united;
In response to London terror attacks - Youth of different religions and
countries stand united; International festival takes place in Cornwall

LENGTH: 594 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-AUGUST 26, 2005-CHURCH OF SCIENTOLOGY: Youth of different religions
and countries stand united; In response to London terror attacks - Youth of
different religions and countries stand united; International festival takes
place in Cornwall

©1994-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Youngsters from around Europe will this weekend take part in an international
arts & human rights festival at Camelot Castle Hotel, Tintagel, giving their
message, post-7th July bomb attacks, that the answer to terrorism and hatred is
to increase understanding, compassion and co-operation. The opening will take
place at 10 am on Saturday, 27th August.

The festival is being co-organised by "Youth for Human Rights International" and
the Church of Scientology. It is being co-sponsored by the Association for
British Muslims, United Sikhs and the World Assembly of Muslim Youth. A packed
weekend of activities will include workshops for youngsters from 15 different
countries in Europe, Africa and North America, covering the subjects of
promoting human rights through the arts, including in the media and to decision
makers.

One of the young participants in the festival is a 17-year-old, London-born
Muslim girl, who was racially attacked three weeks ago, being thrown in front of
an oncoming car. Despite still recovering from six hours of surgery to repair
her jaw, she is taking part in the festival as she wants others to understand
that the way forward is to promote peace and co-operation despite all
temptations to do otherwise.

The festival will be opened by Mr. Daniel Rogersen, Member Parliament for
Cornwall; Dr Iftikhar Ayaz, Tuvalu Consulate and Peace Envoy for the United
Nations; Entrepreneur Sebastian Sainsbury and Camelot Castle co-owner and
newspaper publisher John Mappin.

The opening event will include a presentation about "UNITED," a cutting-edge and
multiple award-winning music video about human rights, created from images from
a world tour and welded together with a message emphasizing education: "Know
your human rights: they may help you some day." Several celebrities made cameo
appearances in the video, including Isaac Hayes, Erika Christiansen, Jenna
Elfman, Catherine Bell, and Lynsey Bartilson.

"The London bombings have made this conference on human rights more urgent than
ever, to highlight the necessity of having youth taught about the human rights
we are all born with and how to ensure that all people's rights are protected",
said Mary Shuttleworth, Director of Youth for Human Rights International.

The different countries represented at this conference include Austria, Congo,
France, Germany, Holland, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Kenya, Sweden, Switzerland,
UK, U.S.A, and Romania. The delegates were selected on the basis of art work
that they submitted and/or their work in the field of human rights.

The Church of Scientology adopted Youth for Human Rights International to see
that all children of the world are granted fundamental rights. The Church has
sponsored the printing and distribution of over one million copies of "What are
Human Rights?" booklets in 21 languages, to help instil in youth the human
rights values enshrined in the Universal Declaration on Human Rights.

For more information, see www.youthforhumanrights.org.

CONTACT: Graeme Wilson Tel: +44 (0)795 096 8351

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Retail Week

                                August 26, 2005

Terrorist attacks threaten buy-out talks at Whittard

BYLINE: Retail Week

LENGTH: 138 words


Whittard of Chelsea believes the impact of July's terror attacks on London will
still be felt at Christmas.

Some potential buyers of the retailer have also lost interest since the
atrocities.

Whittard has about 20 shops in central London and other tourist centres. Sales
were below management forecasts for the first 12 weeks of the financial year and
chairman Richard Rose said: "I don't see any reason why tourists will be
flocking back to central London."

Whittard also suffered from the discounting trend sweeping retail, which drew
business away from its 25 outlet stores. Like-for-likes at its 75 high street
and mall shops were up, but gross margin was down.

Rose said it was too early to say whether a firm offer would emerge. Baugur and
the Weston family have been linked to a deal. Magazine

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                          © Copyright 2005 Retail Week

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 27, 2005

Salmond attacks Clarke anti-terror proposals

BYLINE: MICHAEL SETTLE CHIEF UK POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 429 words


ALEX Salmond last night led calls for the government to clarify its anti-terror
plans to avoid criminalising people unfairly.

The SNP leader cited the case of Cherie Blair as an illustration of how "absurd"
it would be to prosecute people for expressing sincere views, even if they are
unpopular.

He said: "I don't believe people who supported the ANC should have their view
rendered illegal, nor people who say they understand a Palestinian suicide
bomber that they too should have theirview rendered illegal, including even the
prime minister's wife."

In 2002, Mrs Blair apologised after saying at a charity event in London that
Palestinians felt they had "no hope" but to blow themselves up.

Tony Blair defended his wife after her comments angered Israeli diplomats,
prominent members of the UK Jewish community and Tory MPs.

Mrs Blair said she was "obviously sorry" if any offence had been taken from the
way her words had been interpreted.

Her remarks provoked particular controversy as they were made shortly after 19
Israelis were killed in a suicide bombing of a bus in Jerusalem.

Mr Blair said he hoped noone would misinterpret his wife's sentiments as
everyone had the deepest sympathy for victims of the atrocity.

Charles Clarke, home secretary, this week published a list of grounds for
deporting people who foment, justify or glorify terrorist violence.

Mr Salmond, MP for Banff and Buchan, was among a number of signatories in an
open letter to the government.

They said they fully supported the police and measures against people who
planned, supported or carried out terrorist acts, but warned: "A number of the
security measures which the government has said it is considering risk
criminalising or excluding people who condemn terrorist attacks and whose
co-operation is indispensable to the work of the police in fighting terrorism.

"We believe the fight against terrorism requires a broad consensus around its
means and the involvement of all communities to isolate and defeat those who
would use terror to divide us."

Signatories included: Ken Livingstone, the London mayor; Frank Dobson, former
health secretary; Mark Oaten, Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman; Sir Iqbal
Sacranie, of the Muslim Council of Britain, and Shami Chakrabarti of civil
rights group Liberty.

Yesterday it was announced that Bill Taylor, the former chief inspector of
constabulary for Scotland, will lead the independent inquiry into the leaking of
material from the investigation into the death of Jean Charles de Menezes, the
Brazilian mistaken for a suicide bomber and killed by police.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Music Week

                                August 27, 2005

Terrorist attacks hit London's retailers

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 467 words


Music retailers in the capital are counting the cost of last month's bombings,
with some stores reporting a downturn of up to 30%.

Like the rest of retailing in the West End, which according to the London Retail
Consortium was 8.9% down last month compared to July 2004, leading chains HMV
and Virgin and smaller indie stores are all counting the cost of last month's
terrorist attacks.

Virgin Retail marketing director Steve Kincaid estimates that revenues at its
two big stores in Piccadilly and Oxford Street are down roughly in line with the
LRC's figures, falling between 8% and 10% on last year.

More disappointingly for Kincaid is the fact that, prior to the July 7 attacks,
both stores were trading up on last year. Prior to the July slump, the steepest
fall since the survey began in October 2002, the LRC survey also recorded a 3.6%
rise in June.

"The experience was after July 7 there were two or three days where it went very
quiet, but then it picked up again slightly and confidence returned us to normal
quite shortly," says Kincaid. "Then July 21 happened, which caused a bigger
drop."

Since both July attacks took place on Thursdays, each subsequent Thursday -
previously a good trading day for Virgin - has remained unusually quiet.
However, Kincaid does point out that stores in suburbs of London, such as
Croydon, Bromley, Watford and Bluewater Shopping Centre, have all had an upturn
in sales since the bombings, although he adds it is difficult to calculate
whether this has offset the sales fall in central London.

At HMV, a spokesman says the bombs and fear of further attacks have had an
impact on sales, but a quiet release schedule has also not helped. "There has
also been some impact on Thursday; it is the same as people's reluctance to get
on public transport," he says. "We had Coldplay and The White Stripes a couple
of months ago, but since then it has been a relatively quiet schedule."

The drop-off, also caused through disruption to the city's transport network
through most of July, has also had an effect on smaller central London stores.
Jem at Sister Ray in Soho's Berwick Street estimates sales are down something
like 30% since the bombings. He adds, "It's been noticeably quieter, although we
are moving so we have been cutting back on some stock which might have had an
effect."

LRC director Kevin Hawkins says the number of West End retailers that expect
business conditions to improve fell to 42% in July (from 55% in June).

However, most music retailers - like Kincaid - are optimistic that shopping
activity will pick up if no more attacks happen and new product starts hitting
the shops. Kincaid says, "We have Goldfrapp this week, then Kayne West next week
and then it starts picking up in September."




LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                       Copyright 2005 CMP Information Ltd

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            August 28, 2005, Sunday

Activists threaten zoo terror attacks over bears

BYLINE: Marc Horne

SECTION: Home news; Scotland News 5

LENGTH: 780 words


ANIMAL rights extremists have threatened to launch a terror campaign against
staff at Edinburgh Zoo over plans to house polar bears in a new enclosure.

The Animal Liberation Front (ALF) has said it will use similar tactics to those
which forced the closure of a Staffordshire guinea pig farm last week, including
fire-raising and criminal damage. It has also threatened to target staff of
contractors who work for the zoo.

Edinburgh is the only zoo in Britain which houses a polar bear, a 24-year-old
female, named Mercedes. The zoo had said she would not be replaced after she
died, but it has now decided to build a new enclosure to house several more of
the mammals. It claims that the species faces extinction in the wild within 50
years and that zoos have a responsibility to ensure its survival.

However, militant animal rights campaigners believe the conditions in which the
bears will be held amount to cruelty and have pledged to resist the plans using
illegal tactics.

Darnley Oaks Farm in Newchurch, which supplied laboratories with animals for
scientific research, announced that it is to close following a six-year campaign
of violence and intimidation by members of ALF.

Farm machinery was sabotaged, cars were daubed with paint stripper and the home
windows of staff were smashed. One worker had his name spelt out in a field with
shotgun cartridges, while an effigy of a colleague was left on a doorstep with a
knife stuck in its face and pins in its chest.

The finance director of a brokers' firm associated with the farm had his car
firebombed and an incendiary device was found under the car of a truck driver.
The final straw, which led to the closure of the farm, was the theft of the
remains of the owner's mother-in-law from a graveyard.

Robin Webb, a spokesman for ALF, said similar tactics would be used against
Edinburgh Zoo. "The creation of a new enclosure for polar bears in Edinburgh
would provoke deep anger throughout the animal rights and animal liberation
movement," he said.

"The zoo should think very, very carefully about going ahead with this as it and
its contractors could find themselves becoming the target of a wide-ranging
campaign.

"It would have to hire many service companies and outside contractors and all of
these firms and individuals could be targeted to encourage them to pull out of
this project. Targeting can cover anything that does not endanger life and would
probably involve criminal damage and arson."

Webb, a former member of the ruling council of the Royal Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and who was filmed by an undercover reporter
appearing to offer advice on how to make a bomb, added: "A place like Edinburgh
Zoo relies on visitor numbers to survive and hopefully by putting the maximum
pressure on them we can kill this deeply misguided and inhumane project stone
dead."

Edinburgh Zoo plans to launch a public appeal later this year to raise money to
fund the new polar bear enclosure.

"The population of polar bears is in decline and the report published by the
Arctic Council highlights the fact that polar bears could be extinct in the wild
within 50 years," said Iain Valentine, head of animals, conservation and
education.

"It is the responsibility of all of those involved in practical conservation
efforts to ensure the long-term survival of this charismatic, important flagship
species. The European Association of Zoos and Aquaria have stepped up their
conservation efforts by managing polar bears already in captivity as part of a
co-operative breeding programme."

Lothian and Borders police said they would work closely with the zoo to ensure
the safety of staff. "We support the right to peaceful protest but anyone
engaging in criminal activity will be dealt with extremely robustly," said a
spokesman.

Kenny MacAskill, justice spokesman for the SNP, condemned the threats. "The
position adopted by this organisation does a gross disservice to the cause of
animal welfare and they should be subjected to the full force of the law," he
said.

The threat of extremism looks set to overshadow a protest organised by moderate
campaigners. The welfare group Advocates for Animals plans to demonstrate
outside the zoo tomorrow.

"Polar bears are especially vulnerable, capable of suffering terrible stress
with zoo confinement limiting them to just one millionth of the space of their
natural range," said Lynda Korimboccus, a spokeswoman for Advocates for Animals.

"How sad it would be to see yet more of these magnificent animals condemned to
life behind bars."

Godfather of the animal rights mob, News Review, page 7


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                August 29, 2005

TIME MAGAZINE: The New Bin Laden? Al-Zarqawi has been overseeing preparations by
highly trained operatives for a "large scale" terrorist attack in Europe, TIME
reports

LENGTH: 353 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-AUGUST 29, 2005-TIME MAGAZINE: The New Bin Laden? Al-Zarqawi has
been overseeing preparations by highly trained operatives for a "large scale"
terrorist attack in Europe, TIME reports ©1994-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

New York - Recent European intelligence reports reviewed by TIME suggest that
Al-qaeda's leader in Iraq, Abu Mousab al-Zarqawi, is expanding far beyond Iraq
and that he now rivals Osama bin Laden in influence among Middle Eastern and
European jihadists, reports TIME's Bruce Crumley from Paris.

ONLINE: http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,1098905,00.html

Al-Zarqawi has been overseeing preparations by highly trained operatives for a
"large scale" terrorist attack in Europe, the reports claim. In communications
with another al-Qaeda leader, he has spoken of sleeper cells in Turkey and Iran.
The reports imply that these cells may be in contact with European jihadist
groups that previously had no links to al-Qaeda.

"The fear is we'll see these disparate, relatively inexperienced groups around
Europe hook up with Afghan-trained terror cells, all under the influence of
Zarqawi," says independent French terrorism expert Roland Jacquard, who says he
has seen intelligence similar to that in the reports. "That could reverse the
atomization of cells and networks that occurred after the invasion of
Afghanistan."

European officials say the reports are based in part on U.S. officials'
interrogation of suspected al-Qaeda deputy Abu Faraj al-Libbi, captured last May
in Pakistan. (The CIA declined to comment.) Al-Zarqawi has written to al-Libbi
about setting up camps in Jordan, Turkey, Syria or Lebanon, European officials
say. He hoped the camps would provide instruction in European languages to
facilitate jihadi attacks in Iraq and Europe.

CONTACT: TIME MAGAZINE e-mail: Diana_Pearson@timeinc.com Tel: +1 212 522 0833

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 29, 2005, Monday

YOU WERE WARNED;
 BLAIR TOLD 1 YEAR AGO IRAQ WAR FUELLED RISK OF TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY OONAGH BLACKMAN, POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 256 words

HIGHLIGHT: LETTER: Sir Michael Jay


TONY BLAIR was warned last year that the Iraq war fuelled extremism among young
British Muslims.

A leaked letter from senior Foreign Office official Sir Michael Jay said the war
was a "key driver" radicalising them.

The memo torpedoes the Premier's repeated denial that the war made Britain a
target for homegrown terrorists.

And it reveals serious rifts at the top of Government over the scale and causes
of Muslim extremism here.

Since the July 7 London suicide bombings by British-born Muslims, the Government
has denied the war increased the terror risk.

On May 18, 2004, Sir Michael wrote to Cabinet Secretary Sir Andrew Turnbull,
saying: "Experience of ministers and officials suggests British foreign policy
and the perception of its negative effect on Muslims globally plays a
significant role in creating a feeling of anger and impotence among especially
the younger generation of British Muslims."

A strategy document with the letter says Britain is seen as a "Crusader state"
on a par with America as a potential terror target.

It says: "Muslim resentment towards the West is worse than ever. This was
previously focused on the US, but the war in Iraq has meant the UK is now seen
in similar terms."

No10 and the Foreign Office refused to comment on "leaked documents".

Lib Dem Sir Menzies Campbell said Sir Michael's "perceptive analysis" left the
Government's denial of a link in tatters.

Shadow Foreign Secretary Liam Fox called the Government "inept" for refusing to
admit a link.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 29, 2005, Monday

DR MIRIAM: DOGGED BY TERROR AFTER HOLS ATTACK;
 LETTER OF THE DAY

BYLINE: MIRIAM STOPPARD

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 342 words

HIGHLIGHT: PLAY: Show your son friendly dogs


MY SIX-year-old son was recently attacked by a dog.

We were on holiday in Spain and he was playing happily on the beach with his
sister when this pack of dogs appeared from nowhere. One of them sunk his teeth
into my son's leg and he had to have stitches.

As you can imagine, we were all in shock and I keep thinking it could have been
a lot worse if a group of brave swimmers hadn't been there and in the nick of
time managed to chase the dogs away.

Obviously, he's now petrified of dogs. Even if he sees one in the distance, big
or small, barking or silent, he goes into a panic.

We're due to visit my parents in two months to celebrate my dad's birthday and
they have two labradors. The dogs are big softies and wouldn't hurt a fly but
how can I persuade my son to allow them near him?

My parents are really looking forward to our visit and I don't want to
disappoint them, but my son comes first.

I AGREE. Your son suffered a dreadful experience and it's no wonder he's scared
stiff of dogs. The gentle way to help him recover is to gradually give him
contact with dogs in situations which are unthreatening and where he feels able
to keep a safe distance.

A low-threat situation would be a picture in a book. Talk to him about what he
sees. Show him pictures of the labradors and talk positively about what nice
dogs they are and how he used to stroke them. Remind him he's only had good
experiences with these dogs.

When outside, draw attention to dogs at a distance playing nicely with children
or adults.

Any exposure to dogs should be brief at first. Show him you're relaxed and
unafraid but never force him to get closer to a dog than he feels at ease with.

This will be a long process and if you rush things there's unlikely to be any
improvement.

If he becomes frightened in public, pick him up, give him a cuddle and take him
away coolly and quietly. He'll be reassured by your calmness.

It may be a good idea to ask your parents to keep the dogs in kennels or with a
friend while you visit.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            August 30, 2005, Tuesday

TERROR KINGPIN PLANS EUROPE ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 153 words


TERRORIST mastermind Abu Musab al-Zarqawi is plotting an outrage in Europe,
reports claim.

Intelligence analysts are said to see the al-Qaeda militant as rivalling Osama
bin Laden as the world's most influential terrorist. And they believe he has
highly trained operatives ready to hit Europe.

Zarqawi was rumoured to be seriously injured or dead just a few months ago.

But he has expanded his power to have almost unrivalled influence among Middle
Eastern and European militants.

Reports suggest he has spoken of sleeper cells in Turkey and Iran in contact
with European jihadist groups that previously had no links to al-Qaeda.

One terror expert said"The fear is we'll see those disparate groups around
Europe hook up with Afghan-trained cells, under the influence of al-Zarqawi."

The intelligence is based on interviews with al-Qaeda's Abu Faraj al-Libbi,
captured last May in Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PLOT: Al-Zarqawi

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            August 30, 2005, Tuesday

FOUR-FOLD INCREASE IN MERSEY RACIST ATTACKS;
 LONDON TERROR BOMBINGS BLAMED FOR RISE

BYLINE: BY DEBORAH JAMES DAILY POST STAFF

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1,4,5

LENGTH: 1178 words


THE number of racially and religiously motivated attacks has quadrupled in
Merseyside since the London bombings, the Daily Post can reveal.

The shocking increase is evidence of a backlash against Muslims in the region
following the terrorist atrocity. New figures show more than 200 calls were made
to the Merseyside Racial Monitoring Unit helpline in the six weeks following
July 7, compared with 48 in the preceding six weeks.

The sickening attacks include gangs hurling stones at people and cars and
excrement being smeared on people's windows.

In one incident, an Indian man was verbally abused and had a brick thrown at him
in his own front garden while his 31 daughter played next to him/ 2 -year-old.

Last night, anti-racism campaigners urged city leaders to wake up to the fact
that racism was a real issue on Merseyside and move to tackle the problem
head-on.

The MRMU helpline had recorded eight attacks in the week before the London
bombings. But the number of people being attacked rose to 32 calls in the next
week.

Latest Merseyside Police figures show a similarly alarming 87% rise to 170
incidents reported in the month from July 7 to August 8, compared with 91 in the
same period in 2004.

The MRMU helpline log contains shocking examples of abuse against people from a
wide variety of ethnic backgrounds including people of Turkish, Indian and
Afro-Caribbean origin.

This week saw the formation of a new black-led anti-racism group, following the
murder of Anthony Walker.

The 73-strong membership of the new Campaign Against Racial Terrorism (CART) has
vowed to root out racism and encourage the authorities to promote
multi-culturalism in the city's economy.

Donna Bernard, spokeswoman for CART, said: "There has always been a race issue
in Liverpool right up from slavery times to the modern day, and these figures
just illustrate what is going on.

"It's time to face up to it, Liverpool people have got to stop being in denial
and saying this is a multi-cultural city because it's just not true.

"If you walk down the street in certain areas, you won't see a black face.

"The city council is very good at capitalising on the idea of the 'world in one
city' slogan for their Capital of Culture title, but they aren't facing up to
the reality.

"There is a real lack of support for victims of race crime."

The attacks do not appear to be confined to one geographical area.

Police logs show there were 63 racially or religiously-motivated attacks in
Liverpool North between July 7 and August 8 this year, compared with 39 for the
same period in 2004.

In the same period, there were 21 incidents reported in Knowsley (compared with
10 in 2004); 25 in Wirral (11); 15 in Sefton (6), 16 in St Helens (7), and 30 in
Liverpool South (18).

Supt Rowland Moore, who heads the force's community relations team, said: "It is
a significant increase in percentage terms, but we expected it.

"We knew this was going to happen when the first news headlines rolled on July 7
saying the bombings might be linked to Islamic terrorists.

"As soon as something like this happens, we get the backlash from the idiot
brigade who think it's OK to go round and use the terrorist attacks as an excuse
to abuse, damage and assault.

"It is people who are already likely to carry out this kind of attack who see
the bombings as some kind of justification to step up their operation."

Supt Moore said: "The most significant increase has been in what you might call
low-level verbal abuse, with people being called things like 'P-ki bomber', as
opposed to physical attacks"Some of it is more serious with damage to vehicles
and property and threats being made."

"We have been very proactive in going out to the Muslim community and letting
them know we are there to support them.

"But it's not always straightforward, sometimes people say they don't want us
there in high-visibility jackets because they don't want to be seen as a
'grass'.

"A lot of people think if they get called P-ki that it comes with the territory
and they have to put up with it, but actually the message is that they don't."

He added: "The message is we have to tackle this on all levels, we have to
address the low-level incidents in order to stop it escalating into something
more serious if it is tolerated." Liverpool City Council's new racial harassment
hotline has also recorded an increase in calls, but a spokesman said the figures
would not be released until after a review next month.

MRMU helpline staff have identified significant problem areas in Dovecot and
Croxteth, but say incidents are spread through the region including several
repeat incidents in Huyton and Halewood.

The charity's spokeswoman, Margaret McCadam, said she hoped the level of
violence was beginning to slow after the Helpline logged 10 calls last week.

But she said: "We are still veryconcerned. There is definitely an increased
level of fear among the communities whose people have been at the receiving end
of the harassment, and that is a major problem because people are scared to
leave their own homes.

"Its people who are perceived to be Muslim who are being targeted, so it's
basically anyone who's not white.

"A lot of people have said they are frightened and they think they are being
targeted because of the bombings and that people think they are terrorists."

Supt Moore agreed with campaigners and said the number of attacks was likely to
be being "significantly under-reported" - people were either too afraid, or
believed there was little point in asking for help.

But he said the problem could be worse, ifit weren't for continued efforts by
the police, ethnic minority and community leaders to work together to raise
awareness.

A number of measures have already been implemented, including increased use of
CCTV, and professional witnesses who shadow repeat victims and are willing to go
to court to reveal undercover evidence.

Alec McFadden, president of Merseyside TUC, welcomed the formation of CART,
following what he described as a "massive increase" in race hate crime.

A Liverpool City Council spokesman said: "There has been an increase in the
number of incidents reported to the city council's racial harassment helpline
since 7/7.

"We are encouraging more people to come forward to report incidents.

"The city council is putting in extra resources to help tackle race hate crime.
A new worker to improve community cohesion is being appointed.

"Their main role will be to make sure all the organisations involved in tackling
racial attacks - such as the police, city council, housing, etc - are working
together to make sure hate crime incidents are dealt with quickly and
effectively."

ANYONE who has suffered an attack can contact the Merseyside Racial Monitoring
Unit hotline on: 0800 138 1688, call Merseyside Police Community Relations
Department on: 0151 777 8550, or visit www.report-it.org.uk You can also contact
Merseyside Victim Support on 0845 30 30 900

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Anthony Walker was brutally murdered because he was black; Supt Rowland
Moore; Abdul Munim outside the Shajala mosque in Birkenhead of which he is
chairman and which was set on fire

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                August 31, 2005

UK Government: Working with London's communities in response to terror attacks -
Metropolitan Police Authority

LENGTH: 454 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-AUGUST 31, 2005-UK Government: Working with London's communities in
response to terror attacks - Metropolitan Police Authority ©1994-2005 M2
COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The MPA Community Engagement Committee at its meeting tomorrow, Thursday 1
September, will focus on the work of Community Police Consultative Groups
(CPCGs) across London in strengthening public participation and cooperation with
the police, especially in response to the recent terrorist attacks on the
capital.

CPCG representatives will share with Authority members some of the initiatives
they have undertaken in partnership with the police since 7 July.

Abdal Ullah, chair of the Community Engagement Committee, said:

"The recent attacks have had a deep impact on all Londoners and led to a raised
awareness of how some of our communities can suffer from unwarranted accusations
of sympathising with political, even terrorist, agendas simply because of their
religion or racial appearance.

"CPCGs across London have responded tremendously to the challenge of reassuring
local communities and have forged even closer working relationships between the
police and local residents.

"London's CPCGs have been restructuring in the past year to enable them to
contribute more effectively to the changing nature of local policing and
community safety. They have been working more closely with Safer Neighbourhoods
teams and local Crime and Disorder Reduction Partnerships to strengthen
Londoners' direct participation in tackling crime.

"The MPA would like to take this opportunity to thank London's CPCGs for their
contribution, dedication and hard work in helping to keep Londoners informed and
reassured in these difficult times."

NOTES TO EDITORS

1. The Community Engagement Committee meeting will be held in Meeting Room 1
(ground floor), 10 Dean Farrar Street, London, SW1 on Thursday, 1 September 2005
at 14.00. Members of the public and media are welcome to attend.

2. The committee leads for the Authority in considering all matters relating to
MPA and MPS consultation strategies and processes, and ensures that where
consultation is carried out it engages with, and reflects the views of, London's
diverse communities.

3. Community Police Consultative Groups are one of the ways the MPA meets it
statutory duty to ensure that every borough in London has a means for people to
communicate with their local police, and form an important means of consulting
with Londoners.

Website: http://www.mpa.gov.uk

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Commercial Motor

                               September 1, 2005

The life-and-death lottery;
We may have no control over terrorist attacks, but our refusal to obey the law
kills thousands each year. Peter Larner asks, why can't we drive properly?

BYLINE: P Larner

SECTION: Operations; Pg. 66

LENGTH: 433 words


Someone in the audience of the BBC's Question Time recently received a gasp of
disapproval for suggesting that we put the London suicide bombings into
perspective.

Every life is precious and it seems obscene to compare the number of people
killed on 7 July with, say, the tsunami disaster last Boxing Day. For those
people who don't live in London, as I do, or New York, Sri Lanka, or Iraq, maybe
it's easier to take a pragmatic view. So perhaps there is a case for putting any
disaster, however tragic, into perspective.

I speak as someone who lost a young relative in the IRA bombing in the City of
London. Every life is precious.

The road safety campaign group Brake recently produced a report on deaths and
injuries on the road. More than 3,000 people die on Britain's roads each year,
but through some quirk of editorial judgement they don't merit the headlines
that a bomb or a tsunami does.

So, let's not put road deaths in perspective; let's not compare them to a bomb
or a disaster. Let's compare them with something that millions of people
understand: playing the Lotto draw.

We play the lottery in the irrational hope that we will win the jackpot. The
chance of success is 14,000,000:1. As Brake points out, we each have a 200:1
chance of dying on the road.

So it's 70,000 times more likely that we will be killed in a road accident than
winning the national lottery. We're playing a different kind of lottery every
day.

But for most of us it won't be a case of luck. Most drivers are aware of the
risks and decide to take them, whether it's speeding, drink-driving, driving
while tired, or using a mobile phone. They are all illegal, but millions of us
are guilty of taking those risks. And we take those risks on behalf of other
road users and pedestrians, putting innocent lives at risk.

Truck drivers represent just 3% of fatalities on the road; although that still
represents two deaths each week. They're protected by their trucks - it doesn't
take much working out to see why nearly half of all fatalities are cyclists,
pedestrians, and motorcycle or moped drivers. So, contrary to Norman Tebbit's
advice, don't get on your bike.

The solution is in our own hands. Simply stop speeding. Stop drink-driving. Stop
using your mobile phone while driving. Use a seat-belt. And don't drive when
you're feeling tired.

On the day of the London bombing 10 people died in unrelated accidents on the
road. Not at the hands of a terrorist, but at the hands of all of us who decide
to risk other peoples' lives when driving. So, if we are so appalled by the loss
of innocent lives, why don't we just stop?

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                 Copyright  2005 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 1, 2005, Thursday

CONSUMER CONFIDENCE DIPS AFTER JULY TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY PHILIP THORNTON ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: First Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 366 words


Consumer confidence plunged last month despite the Bank of England's decision to
cut interest rates for the first time in two years, a closely watched survey
showed yesterday.

Concerns over the state of the economy worsened sharply on the back of the July
terrorist attacks on London, driving the overall index of confidence to its
lowest level in 10 months, it said.

The consultancy GfK Martin Hamblin said its confidence barometer fell to minus
four from minus one in July, hitting its lowest level since October. It said
perceptions of the general economic situation fell by six points to minus 24,
while people's willingness to make a major purchases fell by four points to plus
12.

Grant Montague, a divisional director, said: 'It may be that we are only now
seeing the combined impact of the two terrorist incidents that took place in
July.'

The July report, which showed a small rise in confidence, was compiled before
the attempted bombings on London on 21 July. The latest survey of 2,000 people
was conducted between 3 and 22 August.

City economists, who had expected no change, were surprised by the fall, which
came after downbeat figures on consumer spending on Tuesday from the Bank of
England and CBI.

Mortgage lending hit a three-year low while retail sales growth is falling at
the fastest rate in the 22 years that the CBI has been tracking the high street.

Alan Castle, the UK economist Lehman Brothers, said: 'The data do add to an
impression that the consumer sector has remained in the doldrums as the summer
draws to an end.'

John Butler, the UK economist at HSBC, said the drop in confidence showed that
uncertainty among consumers had little to do with interest rates. 'Is there any
evidence that the rate cut boosted confidence? No,' he said. 'The problems
relate more to the high levels of indebtedness, growing job uncertainty and the
prospect of higher taxes.'

But most said it was unlikely the drop in confidence would be enough to alter
the consensus that rates are on hold for the foreseeable future. Simon
Rubinsohn, the chief economist at Gerrard, said: 'We still expect policy to
remain on hold until the end of the year.'

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                           September 1, 2005 Thursday

WORKING WITH LONDON'S COMMUNITIES IN RESPONSE TO TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: ARTICLE; Policy and Politics; News

LENGTH: 335  words



HIGHLIGHT: The Metropolitan Police Authority community engagement committee will
today focus on the work of Community Police C...


The Metropolitan Police Authority community engagement committee will today
focus on the work of Community Police Consultative Groups (CPCGs) across London
in strengthening public participation and cooperation with the police,
especially in response to the recent terrorist attacks on the capital.CPCG
representatives will share with authority members some of the initiatives they
have undertaken in partnership with the police since 7 July.Abdal Ullah, chair
of the community engagement committee, said:'The recent attacks have had a deep
impact on all Londoners and led to a raised awareness of how some of our
communities can suffer from unwarranted accusations of sympathising with
political, even terrorist, agendas simply because of their religion or racial
appearance.'CPCGs across London have responded tremendously to the challenge of
reassuring local communities and have forged even closer working relationships
between the police and local residents.'London's CPCGs have been restructuring
in the past year to enable them to contribute more effectively to the changing
nature of local policing and community safety. They have been working more
closely with safer neighbourhoods teams and local crime and disorder reduction
partnerships to strengthen Londoners' direct participation in tackling
crime.'The MPA would like to take this opportunity to thank London's CPCGs for
their contribution, dedication and hard work in helping to keep Londoners
informed and reassured in these difficult times.'NotesThe committee leads for
the authority in considering all matters relating to MPA and MPS consultation
strategies and processes, and ensures that where consultation is carried out it
engages with, and reflects the views of, London's diverse communities.Community
police consultative groups are one of the ways the MPA meets it statutory duty
to ensure that every borough in London has a means for people to communicate
with their local police, and form an important means of consulting with
Londoners.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 2005 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               September 2, 2005

Terror connection suggests the attackers had explosives training

BYLINE: Genevieve Roberts

LENGTH: 251 words


Just how closely linked the July 7 bombers were to al-Qai'da chiefs was not
known until last night. Scotland Yard have responded to the video by saying they
will examine it as part of their investigations.

On 4 August, Osama Bin Laden's lieutenant Ayman al-Zawahri warned in a videotape
broadcast on Arab satellite channel al-Jazeera that London will face more
attacks because of Prime Minister Tony Blair's foreign policy.

But there was always the assumption that Britain's suicide bombers were somehow
amateurish - Hussain was apparently totally thrown by disruptions on the
Northern Line, leading him to panic and jump on to the No 30 bus.

Reports of amateur substances used in bombs, released by New York Police rather
than Scotland Yard, added to this belief.

The surprise of colleagues of Mohammad Sidique Khan added to this impression.
Married with a very young daughter, he had been a teaching assistant at Hillside
Primary School in Leeds since 2002.

Parents at the school said the young pupils' "mentor" was highly regarded by
both children and parents. On 18 July, Pakistani officials confirmed that three
of the four London suicide bombers had visited Pakistan last year.

Khan and Shehzad Tanweer arrived and left together, and spent three months
there. Hasib Hussain, one of the perpetrators of the subsequent failed suicide
bombings on 21 July, flew in last July for an unknown period, where they are
believed to have been trained, or "brainwashed" by al-Qa'ida.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Newspaper

               © Copyright 2005 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 2, 2005, Friday

CLARKE OPENS HIS CAMPAIGN BY ATTACKING BLAIR'S STANCE ON TERROR;
 TORY LEADERSHIP BATTLE

BYLINE: BY ANDREW GRICE POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 603 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Ken Clarke opening his leadership campaign yesterday


The London bombings were directly linked to the Iraq war, Kenneth Clarke
declared yesterday in an outspoken attack on Tony Blair's handling of the
conflict and its aftermath.

In the first in a series of speeches during his campaign to win the Tory
leadership, the former chancellor said: "If the Prime Minister really believes
it, he must be the only person left who thinks that the recent bombs in London
had no connection at all with his policy in Iraq."

He added: "Sensible members of the public know perfectly well that misjudgements
over Iraq have made the UK a more dangerous place for its citizens. The public
knows it; all politicians should have the courage to say so."

Although Mr Clarke conceded that the "disastrous" decision to invade Iraq did
not create the danger of Islamic terrorism in Britain, he insisted it had made
it a more dangerous place. He would have accepted that increased risk if the war
had been a "just cause", but said the reasons for joining the invasion were
bogus.

His decision to play the Iraq card was an attempt to highlight what aides called
his "good judgement" in opposing the war. Although most Tory MPs voted for
military action, Mr Clarke insisted that many MPs and party members now shared
his views on the issue.

The 65-year-old political heavyweight, who described himself as midway through
his career, directed his fire at Mr Blair rather than his rivals for the Tory
crown. He adopted a strongly liberal approach to anti-terrorism laws, accusing
the Prime Minister of a knee-jerk rush to legislation through "moral blackmail"
and "unhelpful and undignified" attacks on judges.

He warned that bringing in new laws after every terrorist atrocity could be
counterproductive, saying they could feed a sense of panic and enhance the
grievances from which the terrorists hoped to derive sympathy. "You do not beat
the enemies of freedom by taking freedom away,' he said, warning that moderate
Muslims were being alienated.

The former home secretary rejected plans to detain suspects without trial for up
to three months and called for an independent body to report to Parliament on
anti-terrorism powers. He said the role of the Association of Chief Police
Officers, 'in effect a trade union', should be placed under political scrutiny.

He dismissed as 'spin' from Downing Street the notion that 'mad mullahs' were
the most significant creators of the new dangers Britain faced. "No amount of
preaching itself ever made any person turn to the barbaric practice of suicide
bombing," he said.

Mr Clarke argued that draconian laws would not make the country any safer and
that a political response was need to resolve the conflict with the Muslim
world. "The roots of our present terrorism lie in the Middle East and in a
series of conflicts around the world," he said.

He conceded that the US and Britain could not 'just walk out of Iraq', which
would allow the insurgents to win. But he called for a change of strategy,
warning that US military tactics were alienating moderate Iraqi opinion and
saying that the US had to accept that an 'anti-American element' would be part
of the Iraqi government.

Allies of Sir Malcolm Rifkind, the other Tory leadership contender to oppose the
war, pointed out that Mr Clarke had changed his tune on Europe. Crispin Blunt,
Sir Malcom's campaign manager, said: "Consistency and quality of judgement are
vital characteristics in a potential prime minister. Malcolm Rifkind has shown
judgement and foresight not only on Iraq but also on other key issues, such as
Europe."

JOHN RENTOUL, PAGE 29

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 2, 2005, Friday

TERROR CONNECTION SUGGESTS THE ATTACKERS HAD EXPLOSIVES TRAINING

BYLINE: BY GENEVIEVE ROBERTS

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 251 words


Just how closely linked the July 7 bombers were to al-Qai'da chiefs was not
known until last night. Scotland Yard have responded to the video by saying they
will examine it as part of their investigations.

On 4 August, Osama Bin Laden's lieutenant Ayman al-Zawahri warned in a videotape
broadcast on Arab satellite channel al-Jazeera that London will face more
attacks because of Prime Minister Tony Blair's foreign policy.

But there was always the assumption that Britain's suicide bombers were somehow
amateurish " Hussain was apparently totally thrown by disruptions on the
Northern Line, leading him to panic and jump on to the No 30 bus.

Reports of amateur substances used in bombs, released by New York Police rather
than Scotland Yard, added to this belief.

The surprise of colleagues of Mohammad Sidique Khan added to this impression.
Married with a very young daughter, he had been a teaching assistant at Hillside
Primary School in Leeds since 2002.

Parents at the school said the young pupils' 'mentor' was highly regarded by
both children and parents. On 18 July, Pakistani officials confirmed that three
of the four London suicide bombers had visited Pakistan last year.

Khan and Shehzad Tanweer arrived and left together, and spent three months
there. Hasib Hussain, one of the perpetrators of the subsequent failed suicide
bombings on 21 July, flew in last July for an unknown period, where they are
believed to have been trained, or 'brainwashed' by al-Qa'ida.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                      September 2, 2005 Friday 5:13 PM GMT

JOSH HOMME SLAMS TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: MUSIC

LENGTH: 76 words


QUEENS OF THE STONE AGE frontman JOSH HOMME has condemned the brutal suicide
bombings in London - and insists he would personally punish those responsible if
he had the chance.

The NO ONE KNOWS star was scheduled to perform at the British capital's Brixton
Academy on 7 July (05) but the show was pulled at the last moment over security
fears.

Homme says, "If they caught those people I would play their hanging... because I
hate... sensless crime confuses me."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2005 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 3, 2005, Saturday

BRITISH TERROR GROUP 'WILL ATTACK AGAIN';
 BOMBER VIDEO SHOWS CELL IS WAITING

BYLINE: BY CHRIS HUGHES EXCLUSIVE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 550 words

HIGHLIGHT: FURIOUS: Jack Straw and Edgware Road on July 7


TERROR experts last night warned the chilling al-Qaeda tape of a July 7 bomber's
message means Britain faces more such suicide attacks.

An intelligence source said Mohammed Sidique Khan's video testament indicates
there is a "support group" still here.

Analysts believe the hardcore cell loyal to al-Qaeda consists of no more than
five people.

They also believe Khan's message was recorded just days - or hours - before the
bombing.

And the timing of its release to Arab TV channel Al-Jazeera means al-Qaeda aim
to prolong Britain's fear of further atrocities.

The expert said: "There is almost certainly a close-knit cell who knew Khan that
is still in Britain. You are talking about a very small cell of fanatics who
took part in the plot and met Khan to plan the details and aftermath.

"They will have almost certainly have taken part in getting that tape through
several different countries before Al-Jazeera got hold of it.

"The cell that remains here will not be wasted. That means another attack is
likely."

Khan's demeanour throughout the tape is calm and collected, mirroring the
behaviour of many suicide bombers. Our expert said bombers sometimes enter a
three-day fast, praying constantly.

The source added: "This has quite a dramatic effect on their physiology, almost
as if they are in a trance like state."

The expert added: "Al-Qaeda did not need to announce itself to the media after
the attacks.

"These people know what they are doing. The 7/7 attacks meant the story
naturally would run for several weeks. Once it tails off you see the release of
the video - reinvigorating the publicity."

Neighbours of Khan yesterday described their shock at his video.

Residents of the Beeston area of Leeds where he grew up say it shows a
deep-seated resentment of the society he lived in.

A local youth worker said: "We have been living in denial. That tape confirmed
that they all knew what they were doing. We can no longer convince ourselves
they were just gullible young men who had been duped into this."

A 75-year-old neighbour, who did not wish to be named, said he was stunned by
the video because Khan had such a good reputation.

"He helped a lot of the youngsters round here," he said. "Nobody could believe
what he did."

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw yesterday rejected Khan's video message blaming the
British public for the July 7 attacks on London.

Arriving at talks with fellow EU leaders in Newport, South Wales, Mr Straw said:
"There is no excuse, no justification for terrorism of any kind, and those who,
entirely wrongly, claim to speak in the name of Islam are mainly killing their
fellow Muslims."

Khan, who killed six people on the Circle Line train at Edgware Road, said
civilians were legitimate targets as they had elected a government which was
"killing and gassing" his "Muslim brothers and sisters". John Falding, whose
girlfriend Anat Rosenburg died on July 7 said: "Seeing the video made me realise
how much brainwashing must have gone on. He said this was an attack against the
British people but the British people were against the war on Iraq and against
Tony Blair.

"The Labour government was elected by a minority of voters - but these bombers
were not bright enough to grasp that fact."

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           September 4, 2005, Sunday

9/11 FOUR YEARS ON: 'A PLANE'S GONE INTO THE BUILDING. GET OUT AS QUICK AS YOU
CAN';
 TERROR ATTACKS - AS AMERICA PREPARES TO REMEMBER, ONE BRITISH

BYLINE: BY JULIA STUART

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 636 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Janice Brooks: 'I will spend my life trying to find some peace " but I don't
think I will ever understand it' ROGER ALLEN; The twin towers, as the second
aeroplane strikes


The nightmares have returned to Janice Brooks. They always do in the days
leading up to the anniversary of the 9/11 attacks. 'As the day approaches I get
nervous and twitchy,' says the British survivor, who still lives in New York. 'I
don't sleep, mainly because I have terrible nightmares. They're so vivid that I
can almost reach out and touch the people. I wake up in tears and I know that if
I go back to sleep I will pick up exactly where I left off, so I don't even try.
I get up and do my laundry or walk the dog. It's amazing how many people you
meet at three in the morning.'

Janice had just picked up the phone when the first plane slammed into the north
tower of the World Trade Center four years ago. She was working as a secretary
for the financial firm Euro Brokers on the 84th floor of the south tower, having
only just transferred to the company's New York office the week before.

There was a loud bang, her computer screen flickered and paper filled the air
like confetti. Before heading for the stairs, she called the London office,
explaining they were evacuating the building as something was happening in the
other tower. The reply shook her: 'Something's happened next door? Hell Janice,
a plane's gone into the building " get the fuck out of there.'

But when she and her colleagues reached the 72nd floor, security officers
announced that the tower was secure and workers were to return to their offices.
For 10 minutes they climbed back up the stairs until they reached a corridor.
Suddenly there was a dull thud, as the second plane struck. The building shook
and the ceiling fell down.

'I heard a woman's blood-curdling, high-pitched scream and a man's voice
shouting for help,' says Janice, 45, from Brentwood, Essex. One man pulled open
a door and about six shocked and bloodied people staggered through. 'The first
woman had blood all over her arm, which was cut, almost neatly, from her
shoulder to her elbow. I remember seeing the bone and the skin just flapping
around,' says Janice. Another woman, her eye full of blood, was screaming that
she couldn't see.

The stairs that the group had just walked up were no longer there. They started
to descend another staircase. 'I went on automatic pilot and just did what I was
told,' says the secretary, who walked behind the woman with the injured arm.
'Each step she took left a bloody footprint. I remember looking down at my left
foot and seeing blood oozing through my bare toes as I stepped behind her.' When
they eventually got out of the building, Janice looked behind her to see a
gaping hole where her floor had been.

In all, 61 Euro Brokers staff died. Janice had worked for the company for 11
years and knew many of the victims. Over the next two months she went to 20
funerals. 'Some days we went to two.'

The company found temporary office space and Janice returned to work. 'I had my
dad on the phone telling me to come home but I decided to stay,' she explains.
'The feeling of solidarity in the air was amazing. I thought the understanding
and support I would get here would be far greater than in London.' She started
counselling, which helped enormously. 'But I don't think I will ever understand
it. I will spend my life trying to find some peace and understanding, but I
don't think I will ever get that.'

Euro Brokers has now been sold and Janice plans to return permanently to the UK.
'It's time for me to come home and work out what I should be doing with my
life.'

She will spend the anniversary quietly at her apartment in Queens, watching the
annual commemoration on television during which the names of the victims are
read. In the evening, she will go to Ground Zero and say a prayer for the
friends she lost. Then hopefully her nightmares will be over for another year.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Retail Week

                           September 6, 2005 Tuesday

Terrorist attacks still scare shoppers from London

SECTION: ARTICLE; Sectors - Fashion; Sectors - Food; Sectors - General
Merchandise; Sectors - Home/DIY; People; News

LENGTH: 137  words



HIGHLIGHT: Footfall down by as much as 20 per cent


London is still suffering from the aftermath of July's terrorist attacks,
according to customer traffic monitor SPSL. The analyst said footfall for the
city was down 15 per cent in the first week of August, compared with the same
period last year. Since the start of July, numbers have been down by between 10
per cent and 20 per cent. SPSL director of knowledge management Dr Tim Denison
noted that numbers began to recover quickly after the bomb attacks on July 7,
only to fall again after those of July 21.He said: 'It seems that day trippers
and tourists, so important during the holiday season, are being put off visiting
London's shops, particularly at weekends and on Thursdays. Retailers in central
London are definitely suffering and sustained recovery of shopper numbers looks
no nearer now than just after July 21.'

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Retail Week


                            Copyright 2005 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                    September 8, 2005 Thursday 12:32 PM GMT

Stanley Leisure warns London casino sales hurt following terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 184 words


LONDON (AFX) - Stanley Leisure PLC, Britain's biggest casino operator, warned
attendance levels and revenues at its high-end London gambling parlours had
fallen in recent weeks in what is traditionally a busy period.

It said the decline was 'consistent with broader trends seen amongst
London-based leisure and retail operators', adding that it was too early to tell
whether the downturn would prove to be a temporary blip.

The warning follows widespread evidence consumers in the capital have
dramatically reined in spending following the terrorist attacks of July 7 and
July 21.

Stanley added that its international betting division was trading in line with
expectations after business had picked up since the beginning of the new English
football season.

rob.branch@afxnews.com

rhb/nes

COPYRIGHT

Copyright AFX News Limited 2005. All rights reserved.


The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News content, including by
framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written
consent of AFX News.

AFX News and the AFX Financial News logo are registered trademarks of AFX News
Limited


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 08, 2005

Culture - Love and loss;
 The Women of Lockerbie, Orange Tree Theatre, Richmond, Surrey. Mike Parker
explores a very personal side of the effects of a terrorist attack and the
resulting show of human spirit

BYLINE: Mike Parker

LENGTH: 441 words


After the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103, a group of women from the area of
Lockerbie onto which the bulk of the aircraft fell - killing 11 people on the
ground - decided, against resistance from the authorities, to wash every one of
the 11,000 items of clothing recovered and return them to the bereaved families.

Deborah Brevoort's play, loosely using the structure of Greek drama, reflects on
the cathartic effect that such an "act of love" might have, both for the women
themselves and for one couple whose loss is both real and intangible, since
their son is one of those whose remains were never recovered.

Seven years after the event, the mother Madeleine is still almost hysterical
with grief, roaming the Scottish hillsides in the hope that, miraculously, some
fragment of him might still be lying amid the rocks and turf.

Her husband Bill, having carried the burden of coping for both of them, has been
unable to grieve at all - and the gulf between their responses to their personal
tragedy threatens to destroy what remains of their marriage.

Visiting Scotland for a memorial service, they find themselves caught in the
conflict between the women of Lockerbie and the US government - in the shape of
state department official George Jones - which wants to destroy all the
"contaminated" personal artefacts.

At a time when the fear of losing loved ones to terrorist bombs is once again
real and strong, this play is a convincing examination of the shocking power of
sudden and inexplicable loss and the trauma of being a witness to such events.

Halfway through, however, it seems as though the concentration on a single loss
in a single event, without reference to the context - and while hundreds die
monthly in attacks that our media now barely acknowledges - is a typical Western
wallow in bourgeois victimhood.

But through a powerful, angry outburst by Olive, one of the leaders of the
Lockerbie women, Brevoort cleverly manages to puncture the earlier, rather
self-righteous tone.

Though it remains a somewhat slight if well-written piece, it succeeds in
leaving one genuinely moved by the spirit of the women and the hope that bonds
of common humanity may yet prove unbreakable.

It's also finely acted, with Collette O'Neil as Olive and John Hudson as Bill
particularly good, while Auriol Smith's direction is assured, despite the
slightly problematic entrances and exits of Lisa Eichorn as Madeleine.

So, another adventurous choice by the Orange Tree and, though flawed, The Women
of Lockerbie is well worth the exposure.

Plays until October 1. Box office: (020) 8940-3633.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005

               Copyright 2005 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               September 8, 2005

Taxi driver victim of terror attack

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 381 words


A TAXI driver feared for his life when he was brutally attacked by two robbers.

Mohammed Nisar aged 38 was robbed when he was dropping off two men at Larkfield
Grove Tonge Moor.

Today he said he is scared to go back to work because the memory of being
dragged out of his cab and violently assaulted is still too vivid.

Mr Nisar from Great Lever said: "I feel scared to go back to work I am worried
about it happening again. When they were hitting me I thought they were going to
kill me. I just don't understand why anyone would do something like this. I've
lost a week's work now and I have a family to support."

Mr Nisar who works for Cobra Taxis had picked the two men up from Leyton Drive
in Kearsley at around 3am on Wednesday.

When he stopped the car one of the passengers who was sat behind him grabbed him
around the neck while his accomplice who was sitting in the passenger seat
repeatedly punched him in his right eye.

The men took the car keys out of the ignition and then shouted for money and Mr
Nissar handed over his night's takings.

After the attackers grabbed his mobile phone and demanded money from his pockets
they tried to steal his car radio.

When they realised they couldn't remove it they dragged Mr Nisar out of the cab
and kicked him while he was on the ground. The robbers then fled in the
direction of Tonge Moor Road.

Mr Nisar who is married with three daughters aged nine six and one has not been
able to return to work as police forensics have taken his car away to be
inspected.

Mohammed Iqbal the owner of Cobra Taxis described the incident as a disgrace but
added it was "just the tip of the iceberg."

"This kind of thing is happening all the time he said. We have a lot of problems
and something needs to be done about it."

The Bolton Evening News reported last month how taxi chiefs were calling for
top-level talks with police about what could be done to improve the security of
drivers after a woman driver's cab was attacked in Farnworth. A policespokesman
said that inquires into the robbery were ongoing.

Anyone with information about this incident or who may have seen the two men who
were both in their early twenties should call 0161 872 5050 or Crimestoppers on
0800 555000.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 10, 2005, Saturday

Whittard plans hit by terror attacks

SECTION: City; In Brief Pg. 030

LENGTH: 76 words

Tea and coffee retailer Whittard of Chelsea has put its expansion plans on hold
as it said trading in London had not improved after the July terror attacks.

Sales rose to pounds 46.1m in the year to May from pounds 42.1m the year before,
though like-for-like sales in the quarter are down 4.1pc. Whittard was suffering
before the attacks - pre-tax profits fell to pounds 2.35m last year from pounds
3.32m before. The shares were unchanged at 78=p.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 11, 2005

NEWS IN BRIEF: Armed police drafted in to protect nuclear plants from terror
attack

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 125 words


Armed police have been introduced at two nuclear power stations in Suffolk, it
was confirmed yesterday. Civil Nuclear Constabulary officers have been drafted
in to patrol Sizewell A and B near Leiston. Security at the sites was reviewed,
along with plants throughout the country, following both the 9/11 attacks and
the London bombings in July. Sizewell B director Mark Gorry, talking at a
Sizewell A and B stakeholder group meeting on Friday, said the move was intended
to boost confidence and act as a deterrent. In January 2003, 30 Greenpeace
campaigners scaled the dome containing the pressurised water reactor at the
Sizewell B plant. They said the protest was to highlight the station's poor
security and vulnerability to attack.


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                    AFX.COM

                     September 12, 2005 Monday 10:39 AM GMT

London Clubs warns trading hurt by July terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 284 words


LONDON (AFX) - London Clubs International PLC, Britain's third biggest casino
operator, said trade at its five gambling parlours in the British capital had
been caught in the wake of the July terrorist attacks, echoing a similar warning
Friday from bigger rival Stanley Leisure PLC.

'Since the announcement of our preliminary results in July, trading in our
London casinos has been lower than the levels experienced in what was a very
strong first half last year,' chairman Michael Beckett said in a statement to be
delivered at the company's annual shareholder meeting.

'Not surprisingly, and consistent with other operators in London, there has been
some impact as a result of the July terrorist attacks, particularly at the high
end,' he added.

However, Beckett went on to say trading had picked up in recent days.

He added that the company had applied for an additional licence to run a casino
in Leicester Square, central London, ahead of the introduction of long-awaited
industry de-regulation in November.

The company said its two regional UK casinos in Southend and Brighton had
performed at a similar level to the previous year.

Meanwhile, its Emerald casino in South Africa continued to benefit from a
vibrant local economy with strong trading in all areas of the resort, while the
two casinos in Cairo, Egypt, had also enjoyed good levels of business.

rob.branch@afxnews.com

rhb/jsa

COPYRIGHT

Copyright AFX News Limited 2005. All rights reserved.


The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News content, including by
framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written
consent of AFX News.

AFX News and the AFX Financial News logo are registered trademarks of AFX News
Limited


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS

              UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hertfordshire

                               September 14, 2005

Islamic party has never backed 7/7 terror attacks

SECTION: Letters

LENGTH: 114 words

DATELINE: Hertfordshire; Barnet Times


In response to Mr Thorne's letter about the Islamic political party Hizb ut
Tahrir ('Dismay at union's consent to 'message of hatred' Letters September 8 he
is wrong to link the organisation with the terrorist activities of July 7.

I am a student at Middlesex University and I can safely say that Hizb ut Tahrir
on campus has never approved of terrorist actions and its members have stated
that the bombings in New York Madrid and London are not allowed under Islamic
law.

I would refer Mr Thorne and other readers to Hizb ut Tahrir's web site
(www.hizb.org.uk) or its members before coming to any conclusion.

Muhummad Azeem Ally

Moosun student

Middlesex Unversity

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               September 14, 2005

Girl 13 in terror gang attack

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 484 words


A 13-YEAR-OLD girl was attacked by a mob of young thugs who repeatedly kicked
and punched her as she lay on the ground.

Patricia Grimes from Farnworth is recovering in hospital with a chipped eye
socket and fractured ribs.

She now faces the prospect of surgery because the attack also left her with a
blood clot on the kidney.

Patricia's devastated mother Tracy said: "She has had a scan which shows bad
bruising on the right kidney. She keeps passing blood and is bleeding
internally.

"Doctors keep testing her but we don't know how long they will keep her in. She
might need surgery."

Patricia was attacked just before 10pm on Friday as she cut through a farmer's
track near Mount St Josephs School off Minerva Road in Farnworth.

She had been playing with her older brother and her friends on fields behind the
school and had left them to go to a local shop. The attack happened after she
left the shop and was trying to find her friends.

Patricia who goes to Mount St Josephs School said: "I was walking past the
school where there's a ginnel. I walked down to find my friends and a girl came
up to me wanting a fight. And as I turned away she punched me in the back of the
head then they all just jumped on me at once. They were just beating me and
punching me."

She said the attack went on for around 15 minutes and she did not recognise any
of the group which was made up of girls and boys aged 13 to 18.

The attackers many of whom were drinking from bottles of cider and wine only
stopped and fled when they heard approaching police sirens.

Patricia managed to pick herself up and get to the house of a friend who took
her straight to her mum.

The teenager did not go to hospital that night but was taken to casualty the
next day after she had a panic attack because she was in so much pain.

Miss Grimes aged 35 who has been at her daughter's bedside since the attack
said: "She would not give in and cry and they just kept hitting her and punching
her.

"When I saw the state she was in I felt sick because she's only small and
dainty. I am really angry. They're animals."

She said that Patricia had not been able to sleep since the attack and was
scared that it would happen again.

Pauline Urmston aged 20 who was working in the nearby One Stop shop on the night
of the attack said a local resident had called police after hearing a
disturbance.

Miss Urmston also called her manager and the local community beat officer
because she was worried about the behaviour of a local gang who she believes
were responsible for the attack.

She said: "I think they were drinking. I went out to have a look what was
happening but when they saw the police they disappeared she said.

A spokesman for Greater Manchester Police confirmed they were called to Miss
Grimes' home and said an investigation into the attack is underway.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               September 14, 2005

Islamic party has never backed 7/7 terror attacks

SECTION: Letters

LENGTH: 114 words


In response to Mr Thorne's letter about the Islamic political party Hizb ut
Tahrir ('Dismay at union's consent to 'message of hatred' Letters September 8 he
is wrong to link the organisation with the terrorist activities of July 7.

I am a student at Middlesex University and I can safely say that Hizb ut Tahrir
on campus has never approved of terrorist actions and its members have stated
that the bombings in New York Madrid and London are not allowed under Islamic
law.

I would refer Mr Thorne and other readers to Hizb ut Tahrir's web site
(www.hizb.org.uk) or its members before coming to any conclusion.

Muhummad Azeem Ally

Moosun student

Middlesex Unversity

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Cornish Guardian

                               September 15, 2005

Day world saw terror attack on the us

SECTION: News; Other; Armedforces; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 131 words


The private ceremony at the Cornish air base mirrored those at US establishments
around the world and one held in New York on Sunday on the site where the World
Trade Centre once stood. A total of 2,749 people from many nations were killed
when the twin towers of the centre were hit by two aircraft hijacked by suicide
bombers. Others died when a third hijacked aircraft was flown into The Pentagon
in Washington. More perished when passengers fought terrorists aboard a fourth
airliner which crashed in Pennsylvania killing all on board.

ABOVE: The Rev Charles Alkula leads the service at RAF St Mawgan in front of the
base's 9/11 memorial.

RIGHT: Station Warrant Officer Ivan Morris follows the service with senior chief
James Proctor of the JMF.

Pictures: Mary Neale.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                       © Copyright 2005 Cornish Guardian

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                          September 15, 2005, Thursday

RAPIST FILMED TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: Extra Edition; NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 137 words


A RAPIST who filmed himself attacking his victim on his mobile phone was today
jailed for 14 years.

Liverpool crown court heard that after raping the 19-year-old, Leaver repeatedly
punched her in the face, smashing her jaw on both sides.

Leaver, 23, has a large tattoo on his stomach of a woman's disfigured face.

As well as filming the attack on his mobile phone, it was captured on CCTV
cameras. Jurors at Liverpool had previously convicted Leaver, of Mayfield
Street, Leigh, of rape and wounding with intent.

Lever attacked the woman after meeting her in Barbarella's nightclub in Leigh on
February 20.

His barrister, Michael Cogan, said the offences were out of character and Leaver
recognised he would receive a lengthy term. Leaver was ordered to sign on the
Sex Offenders' Register for life

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               September 15, 2005

UN: Terrorism directly attacks values for which United Nations stands, says
Secretary-General in statement to Security Council Summit; He cites rule of law,
protection of civilians, peaceful resolution of conflicts, mutual respect among
different faiths, cultures

LENGTH: 653 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-SEPTEMBER 15, 2005-UN: Terrorism directly attacks values for which
United Nations stands, says Secretary-General in statement to Security Council
Summit; He cites rule of law, protection of civilians, peaceful resolution of
conflicts, mutual respect among different faiths, cultures ©1994-2005 M2
COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Following is the text of UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan's statement at the
Security Council Summit on threats to peace and security in New York today, 14
September:

I am honoured to be with you today. The subject you are debating - threats to
peace and security - is a broad and complex one. There are any number of aspects
fully deserving of your attention - including the need to prevent conflict in
Africa. On the latter, crucial issue, I consider it thoroughly appropriate that
at this summit, you have reflected the priority it deserves - as is the case in
the daily work of the Security Council.

On this occasion, I will focus my remarks on efforts to combat international
terrorism in all its forms. Terrorism constitutes a direct attack on the values
the United Nations stands for: the rule of law; the protection of civilians;
peaceful resolution of conflicts; and mutual respect between people of different
faiths and cultures.

We must be at the forefront of the fight against terrorism.

That is why, this year, on the anniversary of the Madrid bombings, I proposed a
comprehensive counter-terrorism strategy for the United Nations.

I am heartened that the World Summit outcome document has welcomed elements of
that strategy, and committed to their early consideration in the sixtieth
General Assembly.

The strategy consists of actions in five areas.

First, we must work to dissuade disaffected groups from choosing terrorism as a
tactic. That means the international community should complete a comprehensive
convention that outlaws terrorism in all its forms. It also means civil society
and religious leaders must raise their voices against terrorism. We must all
make clear, as all Member States affirm in the Summit outcome document, that
terrorism "committed by whomever, wherever and for whatever purposes" can never
be accepted or justified.

Second, we must deny terrorists the means to carry out their attacks - above all
weapons of mass destruction. The ongoing implementation of Security Council
resolutions is critical.

And five months ago, the General Assembly reached a milestone by approving the
International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism. I
hope States will accede to this convention without delay.

Third, we must deter States from supporting terrorists. All States must know
that, if they provide support for terrorists in any form, this Council will not
hesitate to take coercive measures against them.

Fourth, we must develop State capacity to prevent terrorism.

That includes promoting good governance and the rule of law.

In that context, I welcome the establishment of the United Nations Democracy
Fund, and I thank the nearly 30 States who have provided it with generous
support.

Fifth, we must defend human rights. This is essential if we are to prevent
terrorists from unravelling the very fabric of societies they attack.

Finally, let us never forget the victims of terrorism. This Council has agreed
to explore the possibility of an international fund to compensate victims and
their families, to be financed in part by assets seized from terrorist
organizations. I hope you will give this your active consideration.

And I hope you will give your full backing to the points of the strategy I have
outlined. Let us ensure the United Nations plays its role in this fight to the
full.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                     Pulse

                               September 17, 2005

Draft in GPs after terrorist attacks'

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 212 words


GPs could be drafted in to deal with the aftermath of major terrorist attacks
under proposals from Health Protection Agency advisers.

The plans, currently under trial in Avon PCT, involve identifying GP leads to
co-ordinate care in emergency treatment centres, to be run by primary care
staff.

The centres - located in sports centres or community halls - would reduce
pressure on hospitals after a major incident by dealing with the walking
wounded.

I believe those people should be going somewhere else - like a primary care lead
centre,' said Glynn Laverack, health emergency planning adviser at the HPA.

Mr Laverack, presenting the proposals at the HPA conference this week, told
delegates voluntary aid organisations had traditionally been relied on to treat
walking wounded, but these took up to two hours to mobilise.

Resources in the community are under-utilised. I'm talking about GPs and
practice nurses. So far in Avon six GPs are on board, and are promoting this to
colleagues.'

Dr Andrew Rixom, a former GP and specialist in public health at Newark and
Sherwood PCT, welcomed the proposals, saying: I think it would be essential for
GPs to be used.' But he said there would need to be adequate cover and time for
preparation.




LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                       Copyright 2005 CMP Information Ltd

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 17, 2005, Saturday

Managing the shockwaves from a terrorist attack

BYLINE: Patrick Hosking

SECTION: Business; 65

LENGTH: 339 words


The July 7 bomb attacks in London were the first opportunity for Polar's most
aggressively managed hedge fund to test its hedging strategy against a real
market shock (Patrick Hosking writes).

Unlike conventional "long-only" funds, which can only sell or sit on their hands
when markets are in freefall, hedge funds are free to buy or short-sell a much
wider range of securities.

Soon after the bombs exploded, Polar's Paragon Fund, a $ 199 million (£110
million) vehicle that mainly buys and short-sells UK equities, was minimising
losses for its clients.

Although it had more long positions than short ones, it was partly positioned
for a sharp fall in markets caused by terrorism or other shocks. It had put
options in place , allowing it to sell shares at a specified price.

As share prices nosedived that morning, the value of those options soared. But
the knack in these situations is to close out such positions before the
underlying securities start to bottom out, and to open new ones.

According to the Paragon managers: "The terrible events on July 7 meant the
fund's trading strategy was put to the test for the first time.

"As volatility spikes, the premium within the option position increases
dramatically, but any lull in the decline of the market means the fall in
volatility is just as quick."

Paragon's strategy worked, they say, and the fund "meaningfully beat the market"
that day and made a 7.4 per cent return for the whole of July. Since launching
in April 2004, and despite losses in three of its first four trading months, it
has produced a spectacular return of 52.5 per cent.

The fund typically is deliberately concentrated in just a few stocks, having
only about 25 positions at any one time. When last reporting its biggest long
positions were in Xstrata, Hanson and International Power. The fund is
tightlipped on companies that it has shorted, although it says that it has made
large returns by shorting Regal Petroleum.

The fund is closed to new investors.


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           September 18, 2005, Sunday

MAURA DERRANE: IS NEW YORK READY FOR FRESH TERROR ATTACKS?

BYLINE: MAURA DERRANE

SECTION: Eire Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 304 words

HIGHLIGHT: Mind the gap in comprehending the announcements


I WAS in New York four years ago just weeks after 9/11. The city was still in
mourning.

Flags everywhere were flying at half mast. But there was a friendliness that I
had never experienced in New York before.

The tragedy had brought people together and everyone was everyone's best friend.
9/11 will be etched in the minds of New Yorkers forever.

So now four years later it is not surprising that 9/11 is almost a National
Holiday with blanket coverage on most of the TV stations of the relatives of
those who died laying flowers at Ground Zero all day.

The firemen, or New York's finest, as they are fondly known, attend memorial
services all morning and then many of them drown their sorrows in the pubs
afterwards.

That is their way of dealing with the loss of so many of their colleagues who
perished saving others from the crumbling Twin Towers.

But what I was surprised about four years later was the lack of a plan for New
Yorkers if the city was faced with another terrorist attack.

I was thinking of this as I sat on the subway to Ground Zero on 9/11 this year.
The subway is an obvious target especially after the London bombings.

I looked around for evacuation or security notices but all I could see was an
instruction to obey the orders of MTA employees, MTA being the Metro Transit
Authority which runs the subway.

Now obeying the instructions of these employees would be very difficult. The
announcements on the subway are almost indecipherable.

They are either too loud or too low or else the announcer is someone who can
hardly speak English.

And even if you could make out what MTA employees are saying, most people on the
train would not hear anyway because there is hardly anyone in New York without
earphones for their ipods stuck in their ears at all times.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 19, 2005

Tebbit attacks terror law loophole

SECTION: A_MERGE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 56 words


NORMAN TEBBIT today attacked a loophole in new antiterror laws that allows "
glorifying" of the Brighton bombing that left his wife disabled. The former Tory
chairman called for changes to the draft legislation which forbids celebrating
any terror act in the last 20 years. Lord Tebbit was also badly hurt in the 1984
IRA blast.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 21, 2005

City must be ready for more terror attacks, says head of regulator

BYLINE: Jill Treanor

SECTION: Guardian Financial Pages, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 410 words


Sir Callum McCarthy, chairman of the Financial Services Authority, yesterday
warned the City to be alert to terrorist attacks and the possible disruption to
the financial services industry.

In a speech to bankers at Mansion House in London, Sir Callum said that while
the City "stood up well" to the events of July 7, more needed to be done. "But
we should not be lulled into any complacency. July 7, for all the heartbreak of
more than 50 people murdered and still more maimed, was not an extreme or even a
very taxing test of financial stability," he said.

"It was neither aimed at, nor did it have a major impact on, the financial
services sector. We cannot count on any future attack being of this nature. It
is therefore important that we learn lessons from July 7, and apply those
lessons to circumstances which can easily be envisaged and which would
constitute a much more severe test, Sir Callum said."

The FSA works with the Bank of England and the Treasury - known as the
tripartite authorities - to play out scenarios to test how the City will react
to any disruption to the financial system. The next test is scheduled for
November 28 and while the details of the exercise have not been published it is
expected to involve "civil contingency aspects" and an "international
dimension".

Companies around the City participate to test their operations. The idea is to
test all aspects of the financial system, including the computer networks that
process the money that moves around the financial world. The last one was held a
little under a year ago.

When the bombers struck on July 7 some offices around Liverpool Street in the
City were evacuated, including those of the Swiss bank UBS.

Sir Callum said it was the responsibility of firms and exchanges to repeatedly
test their back-up arrangements for potential attacks. He also used the speech
to highlight the strength of the financial services industry, where banks were
"thriving" and the life insurance industry was now recovering from its
difficulties in 2000 and 2001.

Separately, the FSA said it had fined the independent financial adviser CFS
Independent £25,000 for "serious systems and controls, risk management and
compliance failures".

The City regulator found that its senior management had lacked the necessary
knowledge and expertise to ensure it could comply with key regulatory
requirements designed to safeguard clients' money and assets.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 21, 2005

London bombings: CCTV captures July 7 terrorists staging dry run before attacks:
Discovery of rucksack packed with explosives leads police to suspect that fifth
bomber failed to turn up

BYLINE: Rosie Cowan, Crime correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1029 words


A rucksack packed with two primed bombs was found under the front seat of a car
used by the July 7 bombers shortly before they went to London on the day of the
attacks, the officer in charge of the terrorist investigation revealed
yesterday.

The bombs were made up of explosives surrounded by nails and stuffed into
bottles. The discovery has made police question whether a fifth bomber was due
to take part in the atrocity, but failed to show up. Scotland Yard gave details
of the find as they released CCTV footage showing three of the four bombers
carrying out a "dry run" a week before the attacks.

The CCTV tapes show Germaine Lindsay, 19, Mohammad Sidique Khan, 30, and Shehzad
Tanweer, 22, on the morning of Tuesday June 28 at Luton station where they
boarded a Thameslink train for London at 8.10am, arriving at King's Cross at
8.55am. The three men are pictured again at Baker Street underground station
around midday, and back at King's Cross at 12.50pm, where they caught a train
back to Luton, arriving at 1.40pm.

"The obvious implication is that they were conducting a reconnaissance," said
Peter Clarke, the deputy assistant commissioner in charge of Scotland Yard's
anti-terrorist branch. Mr Clarke said he believed the "dry run" was to check
timings and security and that the men were not carrying explosives.

On July 7, Khan, Tanweer, and the fourth bomber 18-year-old Hasib Hussain, left
Leeds at 4am and drove to Luton in a blue Nissan Micra. They arrived at the
station car park at 6.51am to meet Lindsay, who had also driven there and had
been waiting for them since 5am.

The bombers then got the train from Luton to central London, arriving at King's
Cross before boarding three tube trains and a bus where they set off the bombs
they were carrying in rucksacks, killing themselves and 52 victims.

The June 28 footage provides further evidence of the degree of sophistication
and planning around the July 7 attacks, belying suggestions that the bombers
were naive and did not understand the consequences of their actions.

Khan left a suicide video, glorifying al-Qaida, but no suicide tape or note has
been found from any of the other three. Although investigators said there was no
firm evidence to date to indicate another bomber, a security source admitted
there were concerns the four were part of a larger cell.

"Our big worry has always been that there might be others involved in this,"
said the source. The extra material found in the car suggested "on the balance
of probabilities" that more people were involved, he added.

Mr Clarke said a bag containing "two viable devices" was found under the front
passenger seat of the Nissan Micra left by the bombers at Luton station on July
7.

As well as the rucksack, 14 other bomb components were discovered in the car.

Cool boxes, used to transport the highly volatile peroxide-based explosives,
which detectives believe were mixed in a bath in a flat in Leeds, were also
found in the boot.

Mr Clarke said the expertise and care needed to make the devices, and the
discovery of the "bomb factory" in the flat, also indicated meticulous planning.

He said: "It's difficult to say when the plans crystallised but I'd be surprised
if there hadn't been some form of terrorist planning for many months. They (July
7 devices) appear to have been very effectively made. Whoever made them had done
good research or been well-trained. It sounds a rather clinical assessment given
the ghastly outcome but they were very efficient explosions with very little
residue left behind."

Mr Clarke said the Met now regarded Dr Magdi el-Nashar, an Egyptian-born
biochemist with alleged links to the Leeds flat and questioned by the Egyptian
authorities in Cairo as a witness, not a suspect.

The three tube bombs exploded almost simultaneously at 8.50am, but Hussein's
device went off almost an hour later at 9.47am on the number 30 bus in Tavistock
Square. Detectives believe he may have targeted a bus because he was unable to
get on a Northern line tube as planned as it had already shut due to the other
bombs. He made several mobile calls outside King's Cross and police think he may
first have boarded another bus toward Euston station but he got off and onto the
number 30.

Mr Clarke said the focus of the investigation was now on the much wider
terrorism network thought to exist around the bombers. "We need to find out who
supported them, who encouraged them (the bombers), who knew what they were going
to do," he said. International connections, such as Khan and Tanweer's trip to
Pakistan in the November-February pe riod before the bombings, were still being
investigated.

A mobile phone sim chip found on Tanweer's remains showed a list of numbers in
Pakistan, resulting in dozens of arrests but failing to yield firm leads.
Pakistani intelligence agents believe the pair had extensive contacts with
extremist clerics and terrorist suspects.

Train tickets and receipts found at addresses linked to the bombers led to the
discovery that three of them had been on a "dummy run" on June 28.

Officers had to trawl through 80,000 CCTV tapes. Mr Clarke described the CCTV
clues alone as "a complex jigsaw with 80,000 pieces".

Just one example of the inquiry's scale is the search of a vast landfill site -
the size of 18 Olympic swimming pools - in West Yorkshire, where detectives
think some of the bombers' rubbish was dumped. Police have also taken about
3,000 witness statements and searched 14 other locations, collecting 30,000
items as possible evidence in the investigation.

Meanwhile Hussein Osman, the fourth suspected bomber in the planned July 21
attacks, was expected back in Britain today, Italian lawyers involved in the
case said. Antonietta Sonnessa, who represented Osman, known in Italy as Hamdi
Issac, was quoted as saying she had bid her client a "calm farewell". The final
obstacle to her client's extradition was removed by a judge in Rome on Monday.
Osman was expected to be returned to Britain, most likely on a military plane.

Tributes to the victims of the July 7 bombings guardian.co.uk/attackonlondon >


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 22, 2005

Defiant Kennedy to launch attack on anti-terror measures;
LIB DEM CONFERENCE

BYLINE: DEBORAH SUMMERS UK POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 731 words


CHARLES Kennedy will step up his rhetoric against the government's new
anti-terror laws today with an attack on "unnecessary measures which simply
sound tough".

The Liberal Democrat leader will attempt to reassert his authority with a
defiant message to Tony Blair.

Referring to the government's proposed anti-terror laws, MrKennedy will say: "We
shall not accept what is on offer. There can be no consensus on detaining people
for three months without charge.

That's a prison sentence by any other name."

The keynote speech will draw to a close a slightly fractious LibDem conference
in Blackpool.

What was billed as an opportunity to celebrate the party's 62 seats - its
greatest electoral success formore than 80 years - was marred by questions about
MrKennedy's suitability as leader.

A straw poll of grassroots activists for Sky television revealed a majority of
the LibDem rank-and-file were disappointed by the party's performance in the
general election, and showed little support for the kind of shift to the right
put forward by some of the party's leading political thinkers.

But despite inflicting two conference defeats on the leadership, delegates
showed no appetite for a change in leader.

Simon Hughes, the LibDem president tipped as a possible challenger to MrKennedy,
confirmed yesterday he had given the party chief two assurances that he would
not stand against him.

He told BBC radio: "I have said to Charles I would never stand against him. I
have given him a personal assurance.

"If he was to stand down of his own accord, that's a different question."

Mr Kennedy will try to bolster his personal standing today with a highly
personal speech that reflects on his Scottish roots.

He is expected to set out his view of a multi-layered British identity and to
stress the contribution of immigrants to Britain.

On terrorism, Mr Kennedy will warn the government that it is "no time for the
prime minister to play politics with the leaders of the opposition".

Mark Oaten, LibDem home affairs spokesman, yesterday accused Charles Clarke, the
home secretary, of "testing" the consensus on tackling terrorism following the
July 7 London bombings, with ill-thought through plans.

Warning there would be "no blank cheque" he said: "If we give up the fundamental
principles of justice, we are giving in to the terrorists, and if we sacrifice
our liberal society we will be weaker, not stronger."

MrOaten coupled his warning with a call for ministers to do more to help the
victims of the bombings who face expensive bills and require specialist
treatment.

Urging quicker and fairer payments, he said the victims were hardly talked about
these days and greater assistance was "the very least we can do".

Mr Oaten told delegates the party would support effective and necessary measures
to tackle terrorism, but insisted:

"We cannot support a wide and vague offence that allows glorification of terror
to become a crime.

"What on earth does that mean? One person's terrorist is another's freedom
fighter. This is a dangerous proposal - hard to define in theory, unworkable in
practice and putting freedom of speech at risk."

Meanwhile, Jim Wallace, the former deputy first minister, received a standing
ovation after telling conference the LibDems had been right to form a coalition
government at Holyrood, insisting it had given the party the chance to put its
policies into practice.

He said: "What I do find difficult are those in our ranks who aspire for
opposition. We have shown over the last six years that we are a credible party
of government."

BRIEFING

YESTERDAY Anti-terror laws: Mark Oaten, home affairs spokesman, made clear the
LibDems were ready to tear up the fragile crossparty consensus on security
proposals if Labour fails to make concessions.

Jim Wallace: The former deputy first minister said LibDems were right to form a
coalition with Labour north of the border and issued a mild rebuke to those who
prefer to practise "opposition politics".

Leadership: Conference passed a proposed change in LibDem leadership election
rules that will require prospective candidates to secure the support of 10per
cent of the parliamentary party.

QUOTE OF THE DAY Simon Hughes: "I have said to Charles I would never stand
against him. I have given him a personal assurance I would never stand against
him. If he was to stand down . . . that's a different question."

TODAY Speech by Charles Kennedy.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Motor Transport

                               September 22, 2005

DHL counters protest threat;
Lawyers for DHL win interim injunction against animal rights intimidation. Fears
of 'terrorism' after employees suffer attacks.

BYLINE: Liz Wells

SECTION: News; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 383 words


DHL has won an interim injunction against animal rights protesters who are
campaigning to stop the business of one of its customers, Huntingdon Life
Sciences.

DHL has appeared on the protesters' target list, lawyer Tim Lawson-Cruttenden
said, and the company is now deeply concerned for the safety of its workers, who
it feared could be the subject of "terrorism".

Other companies connected with HLS have suffered roof-top protests, office
invasions, vandalism, arson, bomb hoaxes and bombardment with abusive mail and
phone calls.

Even individual employees could not feel safe, with their names and addresses
being emblazoned on campaign websites and protesters targeting their homes,
smashing windows and pouring paint stripper on their cars, he added.

There had already been some incidents involving DHL - including vandalism of
vehicles and protesters targeting directors' homes - and Lawson-Cruttenden said
the company was clearly the campaign's "next target".

After a full day of legal wrangling, senior judge, Mr Justice Bean, issued an
interim injunction forbidding protesters from harassing, intimidating or
pestering DHL staff, their families or those who visit the company's premises.

The judge also threw up 40-metre "exclusion zones" around all the 288 sites
operated by DHL in England and Wales where no protest will be permitted,
peaceful or otherwise.

Campaigners must also give police four hours' notice if they intend approaching
within 140 metres of DHL premises and are also banned from going within 100
metres of the homes of DHL employees and other "protected persons". Any breach
of the injunction will be a contempt of court.

The injunction was - in the end - granted with the consent of Stop Huntingdon
Animal Cruelty and named individuals who DHL say are the campaign organisation's
guiding lights. SHAC and its organisers deny any involvement in, or
encouragement of, unlawful protests.

DHL is also seeking injunctions against the Animal Liberation Front and other
protest groups, along with Keith Mann, from Poole, Dorset, who is currently
serving 18 months for contempt of court. Those applications were adjourned for
hearing on another day.

Melanie Loram, also a solicitor for DHL, said after the hearing that the
injunction appeared to be the only way

to safeguard all DHL

employees.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright  2005 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 22, 2005, Thursday

Kennedy plans his attack on terror laws

BYLINE: Greg Hurst

SECTION: Home news; 35

LENGTH: 709 words


Leader needs an attention-grabbing cause to help him to shake-off his laid back
image, Greg Hurst reports

CHARLES KENNEDY is to make the Government's anti-terrorism laws a test of his
ability to defend liberal values as he attempts to shrug off criticism of his
hands-off style of leadership.

He will signal his determination today to oppose a new offence of "glorifying"
terrorism and to challenge plans to detain suspects for up to three months
without charge.

Mr Kennedy was left without any new flagship policies after a proposal to
privatise Royal Mail was blocked, and his tax policy is subject to a year-long
review, so the forthcoming debate on terrorism is seen by senior Lib Dems as
their main opportunity on the political stage.

This week in Blackpool, Mr Kennedy and his advisers have been searching for ways
to convert liberal principles held instinctively by millions of uncommitted
voters into support for their party. The debate over civil liberties thrown up
by clauses of the draft terrorism Bill, which will be laid before Parliament
next month, is seen by some Lib Dems as their best opportunity to win votes
since the Iraq war, particularly with the Conservatives about to go through a
leadership election.

Mr Kennedy is expected to use his speech to conference this afternoon to say
that he will not accept a walk-on part in consultations between the Government
and opposition parties over the legislation. "It is my belief that how this
administration deals with the ongoing threat of terrorism will be one of the
defining aspects of this Parliament," he will say.

"Ours will be a distinctive voice in the debate. And just as we Liberal
Democrats opposed the flawed logic of that war in Iraq, we will oppose the
flawed government claim that we have to surrender our fundamental rights in
order to improve our security."

He will reject as unworkable the proposed offence of glorifying acts of
terrorism, calling it an unnecessary measure designed to sound tough and
describing it as so badly drafted that it would not stand up in court.

He will be less specific on the proposed powers to hold terrorism suspects for
longer, saying that there can be no consensus on the figure of three months,
which would be "a prison sentence by any other name".

Mark Oaten, his Home Affairs spokesman, appeared to adopt a harder stance,
saying: "I am not in the business of getting into a barter over three months, or
one month. I don't believe it should go beyond 14 days. The case is just not
made."

Mr Kennedy will step up calls for an exit strategy for British troops in Iraq.

"The Government must confront the fact that the presence of British and American
forces in Iraq are part of the problem," he will say. "After this week's events
in Basra, we cannot sustain the myth that Iraqis see coalition troops as
liberators.

What they see is an occupation."

The Lib Dem leader knows that he is under pressure to assert his authority after
a conference punctuated by defeats, criticism of his style of leadership and a
sense of drift. There was exasperation in his camp yesterday after Simon Hughes,
the party president, disclosed that he had felt the need to assure Mr Kennedy
this year that he would not challenge him for the leadership. By doing so, he
kept speculation over Mr Kennedy's future in the news.

Mr Hughes told BBC Radio 5 Live that he had done so some time after the election
in May after another MP apparently accused him of plotting to unseat the leader.

"A colleague accused me of something which I was very angry about, so I went
personally to Charles Kennedy and said, 'Someone is making allegations about me
which are not true'," Mr Hughes said.

The proposal to privatise Royal Mail, holding one third of shares in trust for
its employees and using some proceeds to invest in the sub-post office network,
may be brought back to the party's spring conference.

Mr Kennedy has given several hints that he is ready to drop the Lib Dems'
totemic plan of a 50p tax rate for high earners, the next big policy battle.

* TODAY'S Agenda

9.30am debate on antisocial behaviour

10.15am motion on constitutional reform

12pm leader's speech by Charles Kennedy


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 23, 2005, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS PROBE

BYLINE: BY ROSA PRINCE

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 71 words

HIGHLIGHT: INQUIRY: Charles Clarke


AN official inquiry into the London terror attacks will be held by the
Government, Charles Clarke said yesterday.

The Home Secretary confirmed the probe into the July 7 attacks and failed
bombings two weeks later as he outlined a £5 million programme to tackle Muslim
extremists.

Proposals include a new national body to teach English to imans and a forum to
tackle Islamophobia as well as extremism among Muslims.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 24, 2005

15 YEARS FOR THE TUNNEL TERRORIST; BRITISH 'WARRIOR' PLOTTED MAJOR ATTACK

BYLINE: By John Twomey

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 361 words


A BRITISH-BORN Al Qaeda terrorist was plotting a major attack when he was
captured at the Channel Tunnel.

Globe-trotting Andrew Rowe was jailed for 15 years yesterday after an Old Bailey
jury found him guilty of two terrorism charges.

Rowe, 34, branded an "international warrior" by a security expert, had written a
mortar manual and a sinister code which substituted models of mobile phones for
words such as "airport" and "target".

The nature of the target though, is a mystery. But the documents seized from
Muslimconvert Rowe point to a devastating mortar barrage on a major airport.

He may have been part of the plot to launch a missile attack at Heathrow which
led to soldiers with armoured vehicles being posted there in 2003.

Police who raided his estranged wife's home found Al Qaeda videos, including one
featuring terror chief Osama Bin Laden.

The father-of-four, who was brought up an Anglican in west London, joins the
ranks of British-born jihadists like shoe bomber Richard Reid and July 7 suicide
bomber Germaine Lindsay.

Rowe, a drug dealer and jujitsu expert from Maida Vale, north-west London,
converted to Islam in the early 1990s. He took part in the "holy war" waged by
extremists, spending time in Bosnia, Chechnya, Georgia, Saudi Arabia, Morocco,
Thailand, Malaysia and possibly a training camp in Afghanistan.

A security source said: "He is a committed jihadist, an international warrior.
For 10 years he had been travelling the world in pursuit of his cause. He is
potentially a very violent man."

While fighting in Bosnia he was seriously injured when a bomb exploded near
Sarajevo.

He claimed invalidity benefit but did not touch a penny until shortly before he
was captured.

Then Rowe withdrew the money - about £7,000 - and travelled to Germany where he
is thought to have met up with Lionel Dumont - a French terror suspect who
plotted to bomb the G7 summit in Lyons in 1997.

Yesterday Rowe was found guilty of two charges of having the mortar manual and
the code for use in terrorism.

The jury failed to agree on a third charge relating to socks said to have traces
of explosive on them.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               September 26, 2005

Mother's terror as her home is attacked by 'drive-by' gang;

BYLINE: By Sarah Dobson

SECTION:  Pg. 8

LENGTH: 248 words


A MOTHER-OF-FOUR from north Belfast whose home was damaged by a gang of men
throwing stones said she fears another attack.

Maria Flynn (34) said she was threatened with further attacks yesterday.

Windows at her home in Stanhope Drive were smashed by a group of men who drove
into the nationalist Carrick Hill estate at around 2am on Sunday.

She said a crowd of men returned yesterday morning and told her they would be
back to "finish it off".

Ms Flynn said she was convinced the attack was sectarian.

"We are tortured here, really crucified.

"They throw paintbombs, bottles and stones from the hill but these men driving
into your estate - that would really scare you, " she said.

"It's definitely sectarian.

There's no other reason for it."

The home of her next-door neighbour - a young woman living on her own - was also
targeted by the gang.

Windows and garden ornaments were smashed.

It is understood the gang also tried to put a bench through her front window but
were unsuccessful.

Sinn Fein councillor Caral Ni Chuilin described the attack as "very, very
sinister".

She said: "To come back to survey the damage is one thing but to issue
additional threats is really something else.

"I would urge any loyalist politician to stop these kind of attacks.

"These are ordinary decent people trying to get on with their lives.

"They do not deserve this.

Nobody does."

Police said a sectarian motive had not been ruled out.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SENSELESS ATTACK: Nicola Flynn (9) looks through her homes' broken
windows

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 27, 2005

Europe: Madrid al-Qaida leader jailed for 27 years over 9/11 attacks: Fourteen
convicted of belonging to terror group: Al-Jazeera to back reporter jailed for
acting as courier

BYLINE: Giles Tremlett, Madrid

SECTION: Guardian International Pages, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 523 words


The leader of an al-Qaida cell in Madrid yesterday became only the second person
anywhere to be jailed for the September 11 attacks on New York and Washington
when he received a 27-year sentence for conspiracy to carry out terrorist
murders.

Imad Eddin Barakat Yarkas, 41, who was born in Syria, was one of 14 people found
guilty of belonging to the terrorist group in Europe's biggest al-Qaida trial.
The court also sentenced an Al-Jazeera TV war correspondent, Tayssir Alouni, to
seven years in jail for collaborating with al-Qaida by acting as a financial
courier.

Yarkas had conspired with "suicide terrorist" Mohammed Atta and other members of
the Hamburg-based cell which carried out the September 11 attacks, the 450-page
judgment said.

Yesterday's sentences were, however, considerably lower than those demanded by
prosecutors. They had called for Yarkas and two others to receive total jail
sentences in excess of 74,000 years for almost 2,973 murder charges related to
the September 11 attacks. A panel of three judges, who threw out much of the
phone-tap evidence in the case, cleared one defendant, Ghasoub al-Abrash
Ghalyoun, of charges he had filmed the Twin Towers in New York and other
potential targets for al-Qaida on a 1997 trip around the US.

The third man accused of taking part in the September 11 conspiracy, Driss
Chebli, was also cleared of those charges but was given a separate seven-year
sentence for collaborating with al-Qaida. Yarkas and two other men, Ousama Darra
and Jasem Mahboule, were found guilty of having command roles within the
terrorist group. Eleven further men, mainly of Syrian or Moroccan origin, were
considered to be ordinary al-Qaida members.

Al-Jazeera said it would continue to back Alouni as he appealed against his
conviction. He had admitted handing over some $ 4,000 to an alleged al-Qaida
official in Kabul, but denied the money was for terrorism. "He has been found
guilty of doing his job," his wife, Fatima Hamed, said outside the court.

"It is a very sad feeling. We were expecting Tayssir back with us today," said
Ahmed Sheikh, chief editor of Al-Jazeera.

A Frenchman, Zacarias Moussaoui, is the only other person in jail for Septem ber
11-related crimes, having admitted conspiracy in a US court in April after being
arrested in August 2001 while taking flying classes in Minnesota; he faces the
death penalty when appearing to be sentenced next year. Two suspects, Mounir
al-Motassadeq and Abdelghani Mzoudi, were cleared of involvement in the attacks
by German courts earlier this year. It was unclear yesterday where the case left
Farid Hilali, fighting extradition from Britain to Spain for allegedly making a
call anticipating the September 11 attacks in coded language. In the August 27
2001 conversation, Hilali allegedly referred to aviation training, saying "they
are giving very good classes" and "have chopped off the head of the bird".
Spanish investigators interpreted this as a reference to the coming attacks.
Yarkas told the court that the call had "absolutely nothing to do with what you
say".

guardian.co.uk/alqaida >


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Retail Week

                           September 27, 2005 Tuesday

Whittard sales hit by terror attacks

SECTION: ARTICLE; Sectors - Food; News

LENGTH: 249  words



HIGHLIGHT: No bidders for speciality retailer as sales slip


Like-for-like sales at Whittard of Chelsea nudged ahead 0.5 per cent in the year
to May 2005, but pre-tax profits slumped 29 per cent to £2.35 million. Turnover
was £46.1 million, up from £42.1 million the previous year.Overseas and UK
wholesale sales rose to £2.9 million from £1.6 million last year.

Whittard opened 13 shops in the UK and relocated two outlets.The retailer's UK
sales in the first quarter of the financial year to August 28 were 1.2 per cent
ahead, compared with the same period last year, but like-for-like sales were
down 4.1 per centWhittard is no longer in talks with potential suitors over the
sale of the business. The recent terrorist attacks in central London put off
potential overseas buyers, while talks with possible UK suitors are no longer
progressing, said chairman Richard Rose. 'Growth in our UK retail trading turned
down during Christmas last year and the UK retail environment is challenging,
which is having an adverse effect on our ability to grow like for like sales,'
he admitted.'Trading in the company's central London and tourist stores has been
materially affected since the July attacks. The board now believes this
situation is likely to continue for some time and may even adversely affect
sales during the important Christmas period.'Whittard chief executive Mark
Naughton-Rumbo said: 'Given the tough trading conditions, no new shops are being
planned at present. This strategy will be resumed once we see an improvement in
market conditions.'

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Retail Week


                            Copyright 2005 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                         September 28, 2005, Wednesday

TERROR SUSPECTS %WERE PLOTTING PARIS ATTACKS&

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 107 words


A SUSPECTED Islamic terror cell broken up in France is thought to have been
plotting attacks on the Paris Metro, an airport and an intelligence agency&s
headquarters, it was claimed yesterday.

Police arrested nine people on Monday in the sweep, including an Islamic
militant previously convicted on terrorism charges and freed from prison two
years ago.

The Le Figaro newspaper said the alleged cell&s suspected targets included the
Paris HQ of the Directorate for Territorial Surveillance, a police intelligence
and counterterrorism agency, the Metro and an airport in the French capital.
Police are questioning the suspects.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2005 Century Newspapers Limited

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                         September 28, 2005, Wednesday

MAN HELD OVER TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 69 words


A MAN was arrested yesterday in connection with the alleged attempted terror
attacks on London on July 21, police said.

The 36-year-old man was held in the capital at about 5.05pm, Scotland Yard said.

He was arrested by officers from the Metropolitan Police Anti-Terrorist Branch
on suspicion of assisting an offender and alleged immigration offences He is in
custody at a central London police station

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 28, 2005

France: Sarkozy attacked over comments on terror raid

BYLINE: Jon Henley, Paris

SECTION: Guardian International Pages, Pg. 20

LENGTH: 100 words


Nicolas Sarkozy, France's interior minister, has been accused of stage-managing
the fight against terror after he praised a police sweep in a pre-recorded
television show - before the operation took place. The Socialists demanded an
explanation yesterday for his comments "about an anti-terrorist operation that
was still in the process of preparation". The show was aired after the raids
near Paris yesterday in which nine people were arrested. French newspapers said
the authorities had been tipped off by the Algerian police about the existence
of a cell allegedly linked to al-Qaida.


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               September 28, 2005

Terror attack suspect held;

SECTION:  Pg. 27

LENGTH: 50 words


A man was arrested yesterday in connection with the alleged attempted terror
attacks on London on July 21. The 36-year-old man was held in the capital at
about 5.05pm, Scotland Yard said. He was arrested by officers from on suspicion
of assisting an offender and alleged immigration offences.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                               September 29, 2005

TERROR ATTACKS HIT HMV; IT'S THE BUSINESS

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; BUSINESS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 89 words


HMV Group admitted yesterday summer sales had plummeted as shoppers steered
clear of city centres and went to supermarkets for DVDs and CDs.

The disappointing news sent shares in the retailer, which also owns book chain
Waterstone's, falling 12 % to 210p. Chief executive Alan Giles said trading
conditions had got tougher in the wake of the terror attacks on London.

He said: "London stores sales are running at about 5% to 6% worse than the rest
of the country.We have also seen a big effect in other major cities."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 29, 2005

Anti-terror chief: There will be more attacks

BYLINE: GEORGINA LITTLEJOHN

SECTION: A_MERGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 266 words


LONDON'S anti-terrorist chief has revealed Scotland Yard is tracking potential
terrorist suspects who may be planning more attacks.

Londoners will have to accept the city is a major target and that other
terrorists, possibly British ones, would strike warned Andy Hayman, Assistant
Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police. "I don't want to scaremonger.

London is an iconic state as a location for another terrorist attack. We have to
be vigilant but you can't predict how or when they will try."

No master plot has yet been discovered. Police say none of those under
surveillance appear to be linked to the July bombings in the capital.

Establishing trust and cooperation between Britain's Muslim community and police
has been difficult. But Mr Hayman believes gathering intelligence from within
the community will prevent future attacks.

"There has been some progress but it's starting from a regrettably low
baseline."

The anti-terror chief believes his force was put to the ultimate test on 7 July:
"I thought I'd better start preparing for the worst. It's come to fruition.
Normality will never be the same."

The London bombings was the biggest investigation ever dealt with by British
police, with 80,000 CCTV tapes, fingertip-searches of the blast scenes and a
landfill equal to 18 Olympic swimming pools.

"We were investigating 52 murders, trying to identify the bombers' associates,
undertaking a manhunt for the 21 July suspects, trying to prevent more attacks,
and dealing with the aftermath of the fatal police shooting of Jean Charles de
Menezes."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               September 29, 2005

New cells planning London attacks, warns anti-terror chief: Police speak of
frustration at limited cooperation from Muslim communities

BYLINE: Rosie Cowan, Crime correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 278 words


The police officer in overall charge of London's anti-terrorist operation has
told the Guardian that Scotland Yard is tracking a number of potential terrorist
suspects who may be planning further attacks.

In his first full interview since the July 7 atrocities, Assistant Commissioner
Andy Hayman said none of the individuals was linked to the blasts on July 7, or
the attempted bombings two weeks later.

No master plot had been discovered, but Mr Hayman said that the force, and
Londoners, would have to accept that the city was now a prime target. He
anticipated other terrorist cells, which may well be British, would launch
attacks.

"I don't want to scaremonger but it has to be said, when you look around the
world and at the prominence of London, that the threat is real," said Mr Hayman.
He said detectives were actively pursuing "other lines of investigation".

"We always remain active in covert operations. We have a number of people who
are of interest."

He added: "London is an iconic site as a location for another terrorist attack.
We have to be vigilant but you can't predict where or how or when they will
try."

Mr Hayman also admitted that getting the Muslim community to trust the police
was proving a long and difficult process.

"There has been progress but starting from a regrettably low baseline. We have
close links with the Muslim community but the next step is getting them to share
information. I fully understand how difficult that is, the repercussions of
arrests and so on, but that has to be weighed against the mass loss of life that
could result from further atrocities."

guardian.co.uk/terrorism >


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               September 29, 2005

UK Government: EU Presidency condemns terrorist attack in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 133 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-SEPTEMBER 29, 2005-UK Government: EU Presidency condemns terrorist
attack in Afghanistan ©1994-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The Presidency of the European Union condemns the suicide attack that occured in
Afghanistan earlier today, 28 September.

This cowardly act will not derail the democratic process in Afghanistan nor the
establishment of a more peaceful and prosperous society.

The Presidency of the European Union wishes to send its condolences to the
families whose relatives and loved ones have been killed in this atrocity.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 29, 2005, Thursday

TERROR ATTACK VICTIM STEPS OUT IN STYLE WITH TOP DANCE CONTRACT

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 109 words


A dance teacher injured in the July 7 London terrorist attacks has been made
Cambridge University's first permanent ballroom coach. Bruce Lait, who is in his
early 30s and comes from Cambridge, has been coaching the university's ballroom
dancers for some time on a freelance basis. A spokesman said that the university
had now decided to award him a permanent contract.

Interest in ballroom dancing has grown among students in recent years and
Cambridge and Oxford compete in an annual ballroom varsity match.

Mr Lait was travelling on a Tube train on July 7 and suffered severe facial
lacerations in the blast near Aldgate East station.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                               September 30, 2005

Youngster tells of street attack terror

SECTION: News; 999; People; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 241 words


A Girl today told how she fought off a terrifying attack as she walked home from
school. Bobbie Arnold (11) was walking home from Hereford Technology School,
Westward Ho, when the incident happened on Gloucester Avenue.

The man jumped out at her as she was waiting for her elder brother Declhan (14)
and asked if she was all right.

Bobbie said she was fine and began to walk away quickly but the man followed
her.

She said: "Then he grabbed my shoulders and pulled me into the garden." But she
hit and kicked the man until he let go and she ran home.

As previously reported, the incident happened at around 2.50pm on Wednesday and
Bobbie said: "I was really scared. I feel safer now I am with my dad.

"He is going to pick me up and drop me off now. I am never going to walk again
on my own." Father David Arnold (35), of Second Avenue, Grimsby, said: "It's not
safe to walk home from school any more.

"The couple who live in the house where the man was in the garden were really
shocked." Insp Steve Page, of Humberside Police, said: "This is a shocking
experience for a young girl." The attacker is described as white, slim built and
about 1.7 metres tall.

He had short, untidy grey hair, a grey beard and moustache, an oval-shaped
tattoo under his right eye and tattoos on his hands.

He was wearing a dark blue denim jacket, black trousers and carrying a plastic
bag.

Witnesses should call 0845 6060222.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                   © Copyright 2005 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Estates Gazette

                                October 1, 2005

Terrorist attacks stall Marriott sale

SECTION: News; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 138 words


Marylebone Warwick Balfour has put the proposed sale of its Marriott hotel on
Park Lane, W1, on hold until next year.

A high-net-worth private overseas investor had been lined up to buy the
157-bedroom Mayfair property for close to £110m but pulled out following the
failed terrorist attack on London on 21 July.

The investor was initially shown round on 7 July, the day of the first attack.

Robert Seabrook, executive vice-president at Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels, which is
advising MWB, said the investor was a newcomer to the hotel industry and was not
comfortable with the trading performance of the sector following the bombings.

Figures from consultancy TRI show that occupancy across London's hotels fell by
10 percentage points in August.

"We have advised MWB to take the property off the market until it improves,"
said Seabrook.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                 Copyright  2005 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sunday Herald

                                October 2, 2005

Islamic extremists blamed for attacks as terror returns to island paradise;
At least 25 dead as explosions rip through Bali tourist resorts

BYLINE: By Jenifer Johnston Deputy Foreign Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 821 words



HIGHLIGHT: An Indonesian police officer photographs the carnage in downtown
Kuta, the site of one of yesterday's Bali bomb blasts

Photograph: EPA/WEDA

Damaged furniture and bloodstains cover the floor of the damaged restaurant in
Kuta, on the island of Bali, where at least 25 people died yesterday

Photograph: STR/AFP/Getty Images


POWERFUL bombs ripped through three crowded restaurants on the Indonesian resort
island of Bali yesterday, killing at least 25 people and wounding more than 100.
It's the second time terrorists have brought carnage to the tropical paradise in
three years.

Witnesses reported seeing dismembered bodies at the scene, many of them
foreigners. One Australian and one Japanese national have been confirmed dead.

According to the British Foreign Office, one Briton was treated in hospital but
released soon after.

Last night, the Foreign Office confirmed that another Briton with dual
Australian nationality had been seriously injured. No-one has claimed
responsibility for the bombings in the world's most populous Muslim nation, but
suspicion has fallen on the al-Qaeda-linked militant group Jemaah Islamiyah.

Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said terrorists were to blame and
warned more attacks were possible.

The near-simultaneous blasts at two packed cafes on Jimbaran beach and a
three-storey restaurant in downtown Kuta occurred days before the anniversary of
the October 12, 2002, bombings which killed 202 people including 26 Britons at
two nightclubs in Kuta, just a short walk away.

Jemaah Islamiyah was blamed for those attacks and subsequent bombings in the
capital in 2003 and 2004. Western and Indonesian intelligence agencies have
repeatedly warned the group was plotting more attacks despite a string of
arrests.

Last month, Yudhoyono, who is scheduled to go to Bali today, said he was worried
the extremist network was about to strike. "I received information that
terrorists were planning an action in Jakarta and that explosives were ready, "
he said.

Baradita Katoppo, an Indonesian tourist from Jakarta, said one of the bombs on
Jimbaran beach went off in the Nyoman Cafe. "There was blood on victims' faces
and their bodies. It was very chaotic and confusing, we didn't know what to do."

At Sanglah Hospital, dozens of doctors assisted by officials from the police
forensics department were trying to identify the remains of the estimated 25
dead.

In the emergency unit, some of the injured screamed as they were treated. Many
had cuts on their faces. Dozens of volunteers bustled through from one room to
another with injured people on stretchers, seeking treatment. Among the injured
were 49 Indonesians, 17 Australians, six Koreans, three Japanese and two
Americans, a hospital official said. Many others have yet to been identified.

At the scene of the Kuta blast, journalist Maris Bakkalupulo told the BBC that
the restaurant was "completely gutted . . . everything has been blasted out of
the building, which is very mangled".

Australian Anthony Brearley said he heard two explosions. "The locals still
think it's a gas explosion. I think they genuinely believed it couldn't happen
again. All the Australians automatically thought 'bombs'."

The attacks threaten to ruin a tourist boom on the mostly Hindu island, where
hotels and restaurants have in the past 18 months reported that business had
exceeded pre-2002 levels and that they were looking forward to a busy Christmas
and New Year.

Foreign Office minister Lord Triesman said that Britons should think "very, very
carefully" about travelling to Bali, though he emphasised that there were no
specific threats.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office have dispatched a "fast response" team of
consular staff to the area to help establish if there are any British casualties
and to assist those who may be traumatised. The British ambassador to Indonesia,
Charles Humfrey, has also left Jakarta to help any Britons caught up in the
attacks.

Tony Blair last night said: "I condemn in the strongest terms today's appalling
attacks in Bali.  Our thoughts are with the victims and their families.

The UK was deeply grateful for and moved by the support and sympathy given by
the Indonesian government and people after the attacks in July in London. We
stand by Indonesia at this very difficult time."

Dr Magnus Ranstorp, former director of the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and
Political Violence at the University of St Andrews, said  it was "relatively
certain" that those responsible for last night's bombings shared the ideology of
al-Qaeda. Dr Ranstorp, who now works at the Swedish National Defence College,
added that the reason for such attacks was normally to try to bring about a
regime change.

"It's a means to destabilise the economic situation. It's a means to invite a
counterresponse by the regime - to invite repression, " he said.

Tobias Ellwood, Conservative MP for Bournemouth East, who lost his brother
Jonathan, 38, in the 2002 attack, said he was "appalled but sadly not shocked"
another major terrorist attack had taken place in Indonesia.

Ellwood also said those behind the 2002 attacks have still not been apprehended.

"The footsoldiers are the only ones who have been caught, the bomb-makers who
killed my brother are still at large. "

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNHER


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sunday Herald

                                October 2, 2005

A tropical shooting gallery for terrorists;
Indonesia fails to stop attacks

BYLINE: By James Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 570 words


THE bombing season has started again in Indonesia, and paradise has been turned
into a hell of flames, blood and fragmented glass. Everyone knew the terrorists
would come again at this time of year, as they have done every year since the
Bali bombings of 2002 sealed Islamic terrorism's reputation as a global affair.

As soon as the explosion shattered the Saturday night calm of the Kuta shopping
mall and the tourist restaurants, everyone knew what had happened.

Two blasts went off at Jimbaran, a seaside area. Another was at Kuta beach, the
area most popular with Western tourists. Eyewitnesses spoke of a tremendous boom
that blew out shop windows.

Then the screaming started, the stretchers arrived and the news agencies began
updating the tally of death, which late last night had settled at 25. More than
200 were killed by the 2002 Bali bombings, many of them Western tourists. The
number of British dead in last night's explosions is not yet known.

The Indonesian government had been prepared. President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono
went on TV last night to acknowledge that he had been told to expect attacks.

The organisation most likely to be behind the latest atrocity is Jemaah
Islamiyah ( JI), the only Indonesian group that has the intention and capability
to conduct a mass casualty attack against a predominantly Western target.

Whether JI is a branch office of al-Qaeda in southeast Asia is a moot point.
That it is armed, deadly and active across the region is beyond question.

Until the Bali bombings in 2002 the Indonesian authorities had been reluctant to
move against extremist Islam for fear of angering the world's largest Muslim
population.

They have stamped strongly on terrorism with the arrest of several key figures,
but JI has survived and thrived because, unlike Bin Laden, it does not have the
entire Western intelligence community tailing its every move. Because the US has
poor relations with Indonesia and Malaysia, little has been done to uproot JI or
its intricate network of cells in the region.

As well as devastation of the tsunami last December, the Indonesian government
has been addressing charges of cronyism and corruption, making the military and
police accountable for human rights violations and holding together a
fragmenting nation.

Indonesia has also been dealing with armed separatist movements in Aceh and in
Papua. In a polyglot and predominantly Muslim nation, JI has found plenty of
space to operate. The organisation is founded in the ideological leadership of
Abu Bakar Bashir, who has spread a virulent brand of Islamic fundamentalism
across southeast Asia.

While Bashir happily talked jihad, it was Riduan Ismuddin, otherwise known as
Hambali, who practised terrorism, becoming a star pupil at al-Qaeda terror camps
in the 1980s before enmeshing himself in a series of terrorist cells in the
Philippines.

After the Bali bombing of 2002, not even the Indonesian government could carry
on pretending that it did not have a problem with terrorism. Bashir, a highly
popular preacher, was arrested only after pressure from the US, and his
subsequent trial - for church bombings in 2000 - was farcical.

Hambali was picked up by US and Thai agents in 2004. But even without the
leadership the hydra that is JI has been able to continue operating, replacing
captured operatives with foreign recruits. As the devastation being broadcast
from Bali proves, it is very much in business.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNHER


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             October 2, 2005 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Britain warned of third London terror attack

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 519  words


AN Al Qaeda terror cell based in Bosnia is planning a third major bomb attack on
London within weeks, British security services have been warned.

Western intelligence agencies are working round the clock to decipher electronic
traffic which indicates Islamic terror recruits may have undergone training to
prepare for a strike in the next few weeks.

The German Federal Intelligence Service (BND) alerted Britain to the Al Qaeda
threat.

They said both the London suicide bombers in July and the Madrid train bombers
of March 2004 had been in contact with the network in Bosnia.

The country has become a leading terror training ground, a source of weapons and
a transit point for Al Qaeda in Europe.

BND warned that Al Qaeda recruits in Bosnia might have undergone training for a
further series of bombings in London or another major European capital. The
Bosnian terror network is believed to be run by a leading Al Qaeda operative,
Abdelkader Mokhtari, also known by the name of Abu El-Maali.

Intelligence sources said Mokhtari has recruited and trained Muslims from across
the EU, including Britain, Germany, the Netherlands and Spain.

Recruits have been travelling to Bosnia and Kosovo to attend the Al Qaeda camps
in which they are taught bomb-making and indoctrinated into becoming suicide
bombers.

Algerian-born Mokhtari was implicated in a failed bomb attack on US soldiers in
Germany in the late 1990s.

The BND has concluded that Mokhtari was involved in either aiding or directing
suicide bombing cells, including suitcase bombing plots in Los Angeles airport
and Montreal in 1999. A former operative of the Armed Islamic Group in Algeria,
Mokhtari came to Bosnia around 1994 and soon became a leading recruiter for
foreign Muslim fighters in the war against Serbia.

He helped recruit Muslims from around Europe to fight the Christian Serbs and
boasted of killing numerous people. He is believed to have travelled in and out
of EU nations, helping to plan attacks and also build a terror base.

But for the past three years, Mokhtari has remained in the Balkans, out of reach
of EU authorities, despite being accused of war crimes during the Bosnian war.

Ernest Uhrlau, director of intelligence coordination at the German Federal
Chancellery, told the Institute for CounterTerrorism in Israel last week:

"There is a growing importance of European Muslims as a recruitment pool for
Islamist terrorists.

"Europe is increasingly seen as a target of Islamic terrorists."

A US Congressional Research Service report entitled Islamist Extremism in
Europe, warned in July that Bosnia, Kosovo and Albania would be unable to curb
an Al Qaeda presence in the region.

"Some experts assert that central and south-eastern Europe may pose a more
significant threat than often acknowledged, " the report said.

"The region's weak governing institutions and problems with organised crime and
corruption may make it vulnerable to infiltration by terrorist groups.

"Observers caution that the Balkans in particular may play a role as a transit
point for terrorists, a target area for recruitment, and a potential source of
weapons or explosives."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                October 3, 2005

Bali reeling from new terrorist attack

SECTION: News; Other; Comment; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 201 words


The latest terrorist atrocity in the holiday island of Bali is another example
of innocent lives being taken in the name of Islam by those determined to force
their extremist views on the wider population. Such bombings may go down well
with the hardliners, but what they actually achieve is hardship for those who
earn a living from the large numbers of western tourists who flock to the Indian
Ocean island.

The fragile economy was only just recovering from the bombings of 2002. Visitor
numbers were still down, and are likely to fall even further in the wake of the
latest fatal attack.

In the aftermath of the July 7 suicide bombings in London, the capital's
residents made a determined effort to get back to normal and show the terrorists
they would not be blasted into submission.

The Balinese people will no doubt show similar resolve, but they will have a
much harder job persuading people to visit their country in the future.

That will not stain the conscience of those who fund and organise the bombings.
They will move on, plotting their next set of innocent people to kill and maim,
with no regard for anything but their own twisted vision of how the world should
be.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                  © Copyright 2005 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  EGi Web News

                                October 3, 2005

Terrorist attacks stall Marriott sale

BYLINE: Samantha McClary

SECTION: EGI NEWS

LENGTH: 139  words


Marylebone Warwick Balfour (MWB) has put the proposed sale of its Marriott hotel
on Park Lane, W1, on hold until next year.

A high-net-worth private overseas investor had been lined up to buy the
157-bedroom Mayfair property for close to £110m but pulled out following the
failed terrorist attack on London on 21 July.

The investor was initially shown round on 7 July, the day of the first attack.

Robert Seabrook, executive vice-president at Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels, which is
advising MWB, said the investor was a newcomer to the hotel industry and was not
comfortable with the trading performance of the sector following the bombings.

Figures from consultancy TRI show that occupancy across London's hotels fell by
10 percentage points in August.

"We have advised MWB to take the property off the market until it improves,"
said Seabrook.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                 Copyright 2005 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 3, 2005

Anti-terror police foil Paris attack

SECTION: LSE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 58 words


FRENCH police today carried out an antiterrorism sweep linked to last week's
arrest of an alleged terror cell planning to attack Paris.

Interior minister Nicolas Sarkozy refused to say how many suspects were
involved, but added: "It is a continuation of the same investigation."

Today's raids were in the Loiret region south of Paris.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                October 03, 2005

Bali attacks - Terror returns to paradise - 'Al-Qaida' suicide bombers destroy
packed restaurants;

SECTION:  Pg. 28

LENGTH: 491 words


Suicide bombers wearing explosive vests targeted tourist resorts on Bali,
devastating three crowded restaurants on the Indonesian resort island, killing
at least 26 and wounding dozens, officials said yesterday.

Authorities named two al-Qaida-linked Malaysian fugitives suspected of
masterminding the 2002 Bali nightclub bombings as the likely culprits, which
raises doubts about the success of a regional crackdown on the South-east Asian
terrorist group Jemaah Islamiyah.

No-one admitted responsibility for Saturday night's attack but officials in
Indonesia and elsewhere laid the blame with Jemaah Islamiyah, whose members were
convicted of the attacksin 2002, killing 202.

The latest blasts struck two seafood cafes in the Jimbaran beach resort and a
three-storey noodle and steak restaurant in downtown Kuta - the bustling tourist
centre of Bali.

Major General Ansyaad Mbai said: "The modus operandi of Saturday's attacks is
the same as the earlier ones."

He identified the two suspected masterminds as Azahari bin Husin and Noordin
Mohamed Top.

He said they were not believed to be among the three suicide attackers.

"By the evidence, we can conclude the bombers were carrying the explosives
around their waists," he said.

It was not immediately clear whether the three suicide bombers were included in
the death toll which, according to Sanglah Hospital spokesman Putu Putra Wisada,
climbed to 26 yesterday.

Two Australians, two Americans and a Japanese man were among those killed, along
with at least 12 Indonesians. Officials were trying to identify the other
corpses in the morgue, a hospital statement said.

The 101 wounded included 49 Indonesians, 17 Australians, six Americans, six
Koreans and four Japanese.

President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, who immediately blamed terrorists for the
attack, viewed the devastation at firsthand. He vowed to get the perpetrators
and "bring them to justice".

Earlier he had warned that more attacks were possible, saying he had received
information last month "that terrorists were planning an action in Jakarta and
that explosives were ready".

Dozens of people, most of them Indonesian, waited outside the morgue in Sanglah
Hospital, near the island's capital, Denpasar, for news of missing friends and
relatives. Coffins were carried out - one of them for a child.

The bombers struck at approximately 8pm as diners flocked to restaurants.

The head waiter at the Menega Cafe said the bomb went off at his beachside
restaurant between the tables of two large dinner parties, who were sitting in
the sand. Most of the 120 diners at the restaurant were Indonesian, he said.

Minutes later he heard another blast at the Nyoman seafood restaurant, about 50
yards away.

Three miles away in Kuta a bomb exploded at the Raja restaurant in an outdoor
shopping centre. It apparently went off on the restaurant's second floor.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                October 03, 2005

Bali attacks - Terror returns to paradise - Reports from the heart of the
blasts;

SECTION:  Pg. 28

LENGTH: 383 words


Bali's beachside Cafe Menega was full of screams after the bomb blast, Balinese
native Wayan Subagia (23), a waiter there said.

After being knocked over by the blast and getting back up beside a table where
five children had been sitting, he said: "One woman rushed to pick up her child
but the little girl was already dead."

He said he saw the explosion, but "did not see any package or anyone ... place a
bomb".

A head and feet were all that remained of the bomber.

Mr Subagia got up, but recalls blacking out before hearing the second blast.

He could see the guests running down the beach for safety: "Adults picking up
children - there was bleeding everywhere."

He eventually pulled himself together and responded to somebody's cry for help.

"I just started to cry," he said.

At a nearby restaurant, survivors carried away limp victims covered with blood
and sand. One man draped a woman's purse around her leg as he carried her to
safety.

After taking a guest to safety, Mr Subagia, hurt by debris, was temporarily deaf
in one ear.

Yesterday, Bobby Nugroho, a Jakarta-based reporter with the Japanese newspaper
Nihon Keizan Shimbun in his late twenties, went to Sanglah hospital to collect
the remains of his parents.

"A witness said that my father was sitting facing the beach when a man opened
his jacket and pulled the trigger in front of him," he said.

Meanwhile Police are reviewing chilling footage of a suspected suicide bomber
who was captured in a Bali cafe moments before a deadly explosion.

The Associated Press Television News footage shows a man calmly entering a
three-storey noodle and steak restaurant in downtown Kuta. The Raja Cafe was
packed with tourists at candle-lit tables, talking and sipping drinks - the man
disappears just seconds before the blast.

The terrified screams of the tourists can be heard as the bomb explodes.

The video, taken by a tourist, shows a bright flash with a loud bang and gusts
of black smoke filling the frame.

The bombing was one of the three near-simultaneous blasts on Bali on Saturday
night, with the bombers striking at two seafood restaurants in the Jimbaran
beach resort.

Police are using the footage as part of their investigations as they scour for
clues.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                October 03, 2005

Bali attacks - Terror returns to paradise - World leaders unite to condemn
atrocity;

SECTION:  Pg. 28

LENGTH: 432 words


The world has united to condemn the suicide bombings on Bali. In a spontaneous
show of solidarity for Indonesia, governments around the globe offered all help
to overcome Saturday night's tragedy, the latest in a string of terrorist
attacks in the world's most populous Muslim country in the past three years.

Australia offered medical and police aid, Britain sent an emergency assistance
team and the US and New Zealand pledged to help in any way possible to catch the
terrorists suspected in the three near simultaneous blasts that killed at least
26 people and injured more than 100.

No-one admitted responsibility but suspicion fell on the al-Qaida-linked
militant group Jemaah Islamiyah, which officials say was also behind the October
12 2002, bombings in Bali that killed 202 people.

Australian Prime Minister John Howard condemned the bombings as "an
indiscriminate murderous attack".

"I see it very much as part of an ongoing attempt by terrorists to undermine
democratic Indonesia," he said.

Mr Howard said his government would provide medical evacuation to Australia or
Singapore for those injured in the blasts "irrespective of their nationality".

Australia was prepared to send investigative and police support as soon as
possible, he said.

Filipino President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, whose government has been fighting
Islamic militants in the country's south, said the attacks show the resilience
of the terrorists to strike "when our guard is down.

"We have limited the movements of terrorist cells and kept them on the run but
the price of freedom is perpetual vigilance," she said.

Singapore's foreign minister George Yeo said the attack is "a reminder that
although weakened, terrorist groups remain a threat to our societies".

Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia have arrested scores of Jemaah Islamiyah
suspects in recent years, many of whom have been jailed without trial.

UN secretary general Kofi Annan called it a "cowardly attack".

New Zealand prime minister Helen Clark said such "callous and cold-blooded" acts
were an affront to humanity.

Britain's ambassador in Indonesia, Charles Humfrey, will be sent to Bali along
with an "emergency deployment team" based in Hong Kong. Further details were not
immediately available.

White House spokeswoman Erin Healy said the US government was ready "to assist
in any way".

"The US stands with the people and government of Indonesia as they work to bring
to justice those responsible for these acts of terrorism," Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice said.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                October 03, 2005

Bali attacks - Terror returns to paradise - Authorities seeking blast
'masterminds';

SECTION:  Pg. 28

LENGTH: 610 words


'Demolition Man' and 'Moneyman' are suspected of being the masterminds behind
the latest Bali bombings. The two Malaysians notorious for their skills, as
dissimilar as they are complementary: one is an expert at making bombs, the
other a smooth talker adept at recruiting bombers.

'Moneyman' Noordin Mohamed Top, and Azahari bin Husin - known as the 'Demolition
Man' for his knowledge of explosives - are key figures in the terror group
Jemaah Islamiyah, blamed for yesterday's bombings that killed at least 26
people.

The two became south-east Asia's most wanted fugitives after allegedly
masterminding the 2002 nightclub Bali nightclub bombings that killed 202 people
and the Jakarta suicide attacks in 2003 and 2004 which left 23 more dead.

Indonesian police say the two have eluded capture for several years by renting
cheap houses in densely populated areas, with nearby back alleys for quick
escapes.

Azahari, an Australian-trained engineer, and Noordin were close associates of
the al-Qaida-linked Jemaah Islamiyah's former operational chief, Riduan
Isamuddin.

Isamuddin, an Indonesian better known as Hambali, was captured in Thailand in
2003 and is now in US custody. The two Malaysians are believed to have taken his
mantle - but this remains unconfirmed.

Azahari, a 48-year-old native of the southern Malaysian state of Johor, studied
mechanical engineering at Adelaide University in Australia before getting a
doctorate in property valuation from Reading University in 1990.

He is known to have received bomb-making training in Mindanao in the southern
Philippines in 1999, and advanced training in Afghanistan in 2000.

He fled Malaysia, leaving behind his wife and two children, after police
uncovered his Jemaah Islamiyah role during a crackdown after the September 11
attacks.

Dubbed "the demolition man" by Malaysian media, Azahari became a militant
firebrand after meeting Jemaah Islamiyah leader Abu Bakar Bashir in the 1980s.

Noordin (35) is a recruiting whiz who purportedly excels at collecting money for
the group's deadly missions. He was reportedly the chief strategist in the
Marriott Hotel bombing in Jakarta in 2003 and the September 2004 attack on the
Australian embassy in the Indonesian capital.

Noordin is suspected of talking militants into becoming suicide bombers, and has
recruited new members into the terror network using persuasive skills he picked
up during stints in the southern Philippines, Indonesian police said.

In July last year, Azahari and Noordin narrowly escaped a police raid on a
rented house west of Jakarta, where forensic experts later found traces of
explosives used in the Australian embassy bombing.

Neighbours described both as reclusive men who left the property only to pray at
a nearby mosque. Area residents said that before the embassy blast they saw the
pair load heavy boxes into a white delivery van - the same type used in that
attack.

By the time the two men allegedly plotted to blow up the two nightclubs on Bali
in 2002, Azahari had become an expert in mixing low and high explosives.

It was but a small step from there to devising explosive vests or belts of the
kind believed to have been used in Saturday's bombings, a Malaysian security
official said on condition of anonymity.

They "would have little problem in improvising their skills to come up with
explosive vests," the official said.

Militants arrested for the Marriott bombing said Azahari attached ordinary soap
bars to containers of flammable liquid next to the bomb. The mixture of sodium
and fatty acid in the soap created deadly fireballs.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                October 8, 2005

Man in petrol station attack terror

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 115 words


A 19-YEAR-OLD cashier was threatened by a robber brandishing a hammer.

The victim was working at the BP Safeway service station in Wigan Road Deane
when a man with a black scarf wrapped around his face came in shortly before
9.30pm on Thursday night.

He demanded the takings from the till before running away with an undisclosed
sum of money in the direction of Oriel Street.

The robber was around 5ft 8ins of slim build and as well as the scarf wore black
clothing and black gloves.

The cashier was not injured but was left shaken by his ordeal.

Police have launched an investigation and have urged anyone with information to
call Bolton CID on 0161 856 5740.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                October 9, 2005

Ricin jurors attack new terror laws

BYLINE: Martin Bright, Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 719 words


THREE jurors in the so-called 'ricin trial', whose acquittal of four Algerian
terror suspects in April deeply embarrassed the government, police and security
service, will condemn the government's new terrorism legislation in their first
television interviews tonight.

It is unusual for jurors to speak to the media after a trial, but they have told
The Observer they are furious that a number of the defendants have since been
re-arrested and imprisoned without trial.

Three jurors were interviewed for the BBC's Panorama programme, which examines
new counter-ter rorism proposals to be put before Parliament this week.

One juror, speaking anonymously, told the programme: 'Before the trial I had a
lot of faith in the authorities to be making the right decisions on my behalf. .
. I never really gave it much of a thought. Whereas having been through this
trial I'm very sceptical now as to the real reasons why this new legislation is
being pushed through.'

A second added: 'I think they are probably a knee-jerk reaction to the recent
terrorist incidents in London. . . it's a classic example of the government's
need to be seeming to do something to quell comment in the nation at large.'

The third said measures introduced in response to the 7 July bombings were
'draconian', 'ill-considered' and 'hastily put together'. Home Secretary Charles
Clarke has already been forced to back down in introducing an offence of
'glorifying' terrorism. An arrest will now require evidence of incitement to
violence.

The government is also under pressure to drop moves to detain suspects for three
months before charging them. The police argue that this is the time needed to
gain access to encrypted computers, but opponents say that it constitutes
internment.

Two jurors told The Observer they were shocked when a number of the men they had
freed after a seven-month trial were re-arrested earlier this year. One juror
said: 'I was dumbfounded. . . because I couldn't see where the evidence was
coming from to re-arrest them. During the trial there were clearly different
degrees of evidence against different defendants. But in a couple of cases, the
evidence was so flimsy you couldn't see where the arrest was coming from in the
first place. To re-arrest them seemed totally unreasonable.'

A female juror added that the trial revealed a series of failures by the
authorities: '(There was) poor intelligence, police having misinformation and
not really understanding the background, the government willing something along
because of the impending war and it gathered its own momentum. . . Now they are
trying to justify why the arrests happened.'

The acquittal of the Algerians, who were accused of plotting to manufacture the
deadly ricin poison in a north London flat, led to the collapse of a second
trial involving four more men. Only one suspect, Kamel Bourgass, was convicted
of the plot. At the time of the trial, he was already serving a life sentence
for the murder of a policeman, DC Stephen Oake.

The ricin arrests were made at the end of December 2002 and were used in the
run-up to war in Iraq to suggest that Britain was under threat from weapons of
mass destruction.

The trial revealed that no traces of ricin has been found in the flat occupied
by the suspects in Wood Green, north London.

The Panorama programme, Blair vs Blair , will examine the new legislation in the
light of the apparently contradictory stances of the Prime Minister and his
wife, human rights barrister Cherie Booth.

In August, Tony Blair said in the light of the 7 July bombings that 'the rules
of the game are changing'. But on 26 July his wife said: 'It is all too easy for
us to respond to such terror in a way which undermines commitment to our most
deeply held values and convictions and which cheapens our right to call
ourselves a civilised nation.'

The programme contains interviews with Moazzam Begg, who was held at Guantanamo
Bay as a terror suspect for three years, former Conservative Home Secretary Lord
Hurd and two former law lords.

Lord Steyn says the new legislation could be incompatible with the European
Convention on Human Rights, while Lord Lloyd of Berwick said: 'Being questioned
notionally and not being charged: I think that is intolerable.'


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 10, 2005

Davis attacks terror laws in bid to win Tory backers

BYLINE: PAUL WAUGH; JOE MURPHY

SECTION: A_MERGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 426 words


DAVID DAVIS aimed to revive his Tory leadership bid today with a strong Commons
attack on Labour's anti-terror laws.

He was set to lambast ministers over the treatment of Walter Wolfgang, 82, who
was held under anti-terror legislation after heckling Jack Straw at the Labour
conference.

The shadow home secretary was also preparing to pressure the Government over
plans to hold suspects for up to three months without charge.

His fightback came as a survey predicted Kenneth Clarke could be the first major
casualty in the leadership battle. It suggested the former chancellor was at
risk of an exit in the second round of voting because most of the 60 MPs yet to
declare their choice were too Eurosceptic to back him.

The Daily Telegraph survey said Mr Clarke had been the chief victim of the surge
by education spokesman David Cameron. It predicted Mr Davis, Mr Cameron and Liam
Fox would fight it out in the final round.

A YouGov poll of Tory members yesterday put Mr Cameron on 39 per cent, Mr Clarke
on 29 per cent and Mr Davis on 14 per cent. But an ICM/Politics Show poll of all
voters put Mr Clarke in the lead on 27 per cent.

All five declared candidates were sharpening their campaigns today as MPs
returned to Westminster after a three-month break. Only Mr Davis and Dr Fox have
been invited to Margaret Thatcher's 80th birthday party on Thursday, which could
boost their support from Right-wingers.

Mr Davis was going head to head against Home Secretary Charles Clarke at Commons
questions this afternoon, amid signs that ministers are cracking over the plan
for three-month detention. Commons Leader Geoff Hoon yesterday hinted at a
possible U-turn, saying ministers would "listen to opinions in Parliament and
act accordingly".

The shadow home secretary was also set to claim Tony Blair's wife Cherie could
face prosecution under the Government's attempt to outlaw " glorification" of
terrorism.

Mrs Blair was forced to apologise in 2002 after she suggested Palestinian
suicide bombs were caused by desperation at Israeli tactics. "As long as young
people feel they have got no hope but to blow themselves up you are never going
to make progress," she said.

The proposed anti-terror law, out on Wednesday, would make it an offence if
someone " could reasonably have believed" their statements would be used by
terrorists.

Meanwhile, writing in the Telegraph today, Mr Cameron appealed to the Right,
saying he wanted to take back control of employment and social regulation from
the European Union.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 10, 2005

Davis launches strong attack on terror laws

SECTION: LSE_04; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 154 words


DAVID DAVIS aimed to revive his Tory leadership bid today with a strong Commons
attack on Labour's anti-terror laws. He was set to lambast ministers over the
treatment of Walter Wolfgang, 82, who was held under anti-terror legislation
after heckling at the Labour conference.

The shadow home secretary will also reject plans to hold suspects for up to
three months without charge.

His fightback came as a survey predicted Kenneth Clarke could be the first major
casualty in the leadership battle. The Daily Telegraph survey said he had been
the chief victim of the surge by David Cameron. It predicted Mr Davis, Mr
Cameron and Liam Fox in the final round.

All five declared candidates were sharpening their campaigns today as MPs
returned to Westminster. Only Mr Davis and Dr Fox have been invited to Margaret
Thatcher's 80th birthday party on Thursday, which could boost support from
Right-wingers.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: FIGHTING BACK: DAVID DAVIS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 10, 2005

Police believe terror suspects were planning bomb attacks

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 283 words


Ten suspected terrorists arrested in dawn raids in London, Wolverhampton and
Derby are of Iraqi descent and were believed to be in the final stages of
planning bomb attacks, senior counter-terrorism officials said yesterday.

The arrests followed a long-term joint police and MI5 surveillance operation,
but new intelligence led to the arrests on Saturday morning, the officials said.

They described the arrests as "certainly significant" and linked to a "potential
direct threat to the UK". But they said it was not clear what the plot was, when
it was planned for, and what the targets were.

The arrest operation was not linked to the July 7 London bombings, intelligence
officials said. They added that it was unclear whether the suspected planned
attack would have been by suicide bombers. However, they said the suspects might
have links with Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, leader of the terrorist group which
describes itself as al-Qaida in Iraq. Security and intelligence officials are
concerned about the impact of the conflict in Iraq on potential Islamist
extremists in Britain. An estimated 70 young men have left Britain to fight in
Iraq, they believe.

The men were arrested under the Terrorism Act 2000 on suspicion of the
commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terror. Yesterday, forensics
and anti-terrorist branch officers continued searching three addresses.

A neighbour of the four men arrested in Wolverhampton said: "There was always
activity in the early hours of the morning. Men would be carrying plastic bags
and packages to and from the house. They've always been very quiet but we have
noticed them and we have had problems with their cars."


LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            October 10, 2005, Monday

BOY LOSES SIGHT IN EYE AFTER ATTACK;
 KNIFE TERROR FOR JOSEPH

BYLINE: BY LUKE TRAYNOR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 351 words


THE teenage victim of a knife attack has been told he will never fully regain
his sight.

Joseph Schofield, 15, was told by doctors that vision in his right eye is
irreparably affected after the unprovoked attack near his Liverpool home.

He was slashed across the face by a boy of a similar age, who accused him of
staring at him.

The knife wound has left a long scar across his eyeball, which has also damaged
Joseph's tear duct.

The full extent of the damage is still unclear, and Joseph is still coming to
terms with news that the sight in his right eye will never return to normal.

He will have an operation at the Royal hospital this week to replace the lens
with a new one.

Joseph can see only blackness and momentary flashes through his right eye. He
was very upset when he could not see a doctor shining a light in it during his
last consultation.

His eyelid has been heavily stiched, along with his nose, and Joseph, who is in
constant pain, said: "It's a strange feeling to just see with one eye and I hope
it doesn't alter my appearance.

"I'm desperate to get some sight back in this eye because coping with this has
been very difficult."

The Childwall comprehensive pupil often falls asleep after reading or watching
TV because of the strain on his left eye.

Police are investigating the attack by a hooded boy, who struck as Joseph walked
back home with his friend in Mill Lane, Wavertree"I remember the lad asking me
who I was looking at, so I said I was looking at him. He stopped my friend and
asked him how old I was.

"When he found out I was 15, he said: 'That's the same age as me' and got a
knife out of his pocket and slashed me.

"I initially thought I'd been punched. But when I saw the blood, I knew it was a
knife. I just staggered home and realised I couldn't see out my right eye.

"It's scary when I leave the house and I'm frightened he might do it again. I
get paranoid when I see someone wearing a hooded top."

Police are investigating the attack and say anyone with information should
contact Crimestoppers on 0800 555111

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEVASTATED: Joseph Schofield with his mum Cathy Picture: EDDIE BARFORD

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                October 10, 2005

FORUM OF PRIVATE BUSINESS: FPB: Survey reveals London transport businesses
rocked by terror attacks and C-Charge

LENGTH: 1038 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-OCTOBER 10, 2005-FORUM OF PRIVATE BUSINESS: FPB: Survey reveals
London transport businesses rocked by terror attacks and C-Charge ©1994-2005 M2
COMMUNICATIONS LTD

A leading business pressure group is demanding that the London Mayor takes
action to help London transport businesses after a major survey (see notes to
editors) revealed that profits, footfall and confidence levels have all fallen
since the terror attacks and Congestion Charge price hike in July.

The Forum of Private Business's (FPB) survey of 1,000 London-based
small-to-medium sized firms shows that well over half, 58 per cent, have seen a
slump in profits since the July bombings. Meanwhile, nearly two thirds report a
drop in footfall of clients and customers following the terror attacks. A
quarter of business owners admit to having thought of relocating their business
as a result of the terror attacks.

The Congestion Charge, which was increased by 60 per cent from £5 to £8 three
days before the July 7 attacks, has taken a further toll with two thirds of
respondents saying the increase had had a negative impact. A third of bosses say
they have thought of relocating since the Congestion Charge increase. A massive
eight out of 10 bosses supported calls from the FPB for a six-month suspension
of the Congestion Charge saying it would be beneficial to London businesses.

Furthermore, an overwhelming 73 per cent of business owners say they do not
believe that London Mayor Ken Livingstone is doing enough to attract business
and visitors back into Capital in the wake of the terror attacks.

Finally, two thirds of businesses say they are not confident of trading growth
in London in the next six months.

The FPB's Chief Executive Nick Goulding said that, with the critical Christmas
shopping period just weeks away, action is urgently needed to encourage visitors
to London.

"Our members are telling us loud and clear that they are suffering because of
the terror attacks and the Congestion Charge hike,' he said. "The next four
months are the most important in the retail calendar and business needs Ken
Livingstone's help. He has the power to suspend the Congestion Charge at least
until the end of the January sales.

"This act would send out a compelling message to the public that London is open
and eager for business. It would give the business community a vital injection
of solidarity and support. "

A selection of quotes from FPB members:

"The terror attacks deterred both tourist and domestic customers from coming
into the West End; this was compounded by TFL going ahead with crassly
increasing the Congestion Charge at the same time. Our takings fell by 65 per
cent, and are only now slowly coming back up to reach a level of 35 per cent
down. This whole episode has produced the worst summer trading I have known in
27 years, and has a disastrous effect on Central London business." Andy Preston,
Andy's Guitar Centre, Denmark Street WC2.

* There is no hope for London's small retailers.The city will become a series of
shopping malls filled up with big company stores and with parking
facilities.There will be no place for authentic ,specialist small shops." Mrs
Gayla Aytac, Abstract contemporary art studio, Kensington Church Street, W8.

* We experienced the worst trading figures in July and August for 10 years in
our central London stores, although our north London store was much less
affected - pointing to the C-Charge (and it's increase) and bombs being the
prime cause. Matthew Crawford, After Noah home furnishing, Upper Street, N1.

Note to editors

Please find full survey results.

Trading in London survey

1. Have you seen a drop in profits since the London terror attacks in July?

1) Yes 58.3% 2) No 31.3% 3) Don't Know 10.4%

2. If yes, by how much have you seen them fall by?

1) 1 - 4 per cent 8.0% 2) 5 - 14 per cent 36.0% 3) 15 - 29 per cent 20.0% 4) 30
per cent and more 36.0%

3. Have you seen a drop in the footfall of clients and customers since the
terror attacks?

1) Yes 63.4% 2) No 34.1% 3) Don't Know 2.4%

4. If yes, by how much have you seen them fall?

1) 1 - 4 per cent 6.7% 2) 5 - 14 per cent 26.7% 3) 15 - 29 per cent 33.3% 4) 30
per cent and more 33.3%

5. Have you thought of relocating your business as a result of the terror
attacks?

1) Yes 26.1% 2) No 69.6% 3) Don't Know 4.3%

6. What effect has increasing the Congestion Charge by 60 per cent from £5 to £8
on 4 July 2005 had on your business?

1) Positive 2.2% 2) Negative 67.4% 3) No effect at all 30.4%

7. Have you thought of relocating your business as a result of the Congestion
Charge increase?

1) Yes 33.3% 2) No 60.4% 3) Don't Know 6.3%

8. The FPB has launched a campaign calling for a six-month suspension of the
congestion charge. Do you think this would be beneficial to businesses in
London?

1) Yes 76.6% 2) No 8.5% 3) Don't Know 14.9%

9. Is London Mayor Ken Livingstone doing enough to attract business and visitors
back into the Capital in the wake of the terror attacks?

1) Yes 7.3% 2) No 73.2% 3) Don't Know 19.5%

10. Are you confident of trading growth in London in the next six months?

1) Yes 25.0% 2) No 75.0%

FPB BACKGROUND:

The Forum of Private Business (FPB) was formed in 1977 and is a pressure group
fighting on behalf of private businesses. The FPB represents approximately
25,000 UK-based businesses employing in excess of 600,000 people, and is a
powerful lobbying voice in both the UK and the European Union.

The FPB, as the only full UK member of UEAPME - the organisation that represents
small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in Europe - is the most prominent
advocate of UK SMEs in Brussels and has a track record of positively affecting
legislation prior to its introduction in the UK.

The FPB also provides a range of business services aimed at increasing member
efficiency and profitability. Visit www.fpb.org.

CONTACT: Ben Pinnington, media manager Tel: +44 (0)156 562 6019 e-mail:
ben.pinnington@fpb.org Rex Garratt, press officer Tel: +44 (0)156 563 4709
e-mail: rex.garratt@fpb.org

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 10, 2005

MIAMI SURVIVORS:WHY DID TERRORISTS ATTACK?

LENGTH: 413 words


Band still haunted by massacre

SURVIVORS of the Miami Showband massacre in which three bandmates were shot dead
by loyalist paramilitaries have told how their torment goes on - 30 years later.

Des Lee and Steve Travers are still haunted by the horror which will be
remembered as one of the most chilling attacks of the Troubles.

The band was ambushed on its way home from a gig in Banbridge, Co Down, on July
31, 1975.

Three of them were shot dead - but Des escaped after running for his life and
Steve survived a gunshot wound.

Des said: "What I saw was horrific. I'll never forget what happened and I still
think about my friends every day."

Drummer Ray Miller, wasn't travelling with the band that night.

And he said: "Every day I ask, 'Why am I here?'"

The group were just a few miles into their trip to Dublin when they were flagged
down at what they thought was an Ulster Defence Regiment checkpoint.

Bomb

But as they waited outside their van two terrorists were planting a bomb which
EXPLODED as they tried to put it in the back, killing two of the gang.

Guitarist Steve said: "The whole world turned red and I was in the air.

"Then I was shot in the right hip and the bullet exploded inside of me, going
right through my body and into my lung."

The force of the blast blew Des off the road and into a ditch which caught fire.

The saxophonist recalls: "I realised I had to get out or I would be burnt alive.
I had no alternative but to run for my life."

In the panic Steve says he ended up face down in a field.

"I could hear footsteps coming towards me. I couldn't decide whether or not to
kneel and beg for my life or stay where I was.

"I didn't budge. Then I heard someone on the road shouting, 'Come on, I got
them.

They are dead'."

But three of the band's members had not been so lucky.

Singer Fran O'Toole lay dead with 22 bullets in his FACE.

Instrumentalist Tony Geraghty and trumpeter Brian McCoy had also been gunned
down.

The band have never come to terms with what happened, which is reconstructed in
a new BBC documentary.

Des emigrated to South Africa in a bid to escape the memories and has never been
able to return home. He said: "I no longer feel comfortable or safe there."

It transpired that the UVF were trying to frame the band as IRA members by
planting the bomb. Three of the gang got life sentences.

The Day The Music Died is on BBC One at 10.35pm tonight.


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           October 11, 2005, Tuesday

TORIES ATTACK LABOUR TERROR 'CRACKDOWN

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 165 words


MINISTERS have taken "no effective action" to stop terror suspects moving in and
out of Britain at will, the Tories claimed yesterday.

Shadow home secretary David Davis said there were still not enough Special
Branch officers protecting borders despite official warnings two years ago.

Mr Davis said there were just 900 officers in place - 500 fewer than there
should be.

"This is two years after a report from Her Majesty's Inspectorate which
described the arrangement as wholly inadequate. Why is it that, two years after
being warned, the Government took no effective action to stop suspected
terrorists moving in and out of our country?"

Mr Davis launched the attack in the House of Commons on the first day back after
MPs' summer break.

Home Office minister Tony McNulty defended the Government. He said it was not
only Special Branch who could deal with border control.

He also warned: "Do not malign our public servants. They are doing an excellent
job

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      October 13, 2005, Thursday Edition 1

Terrorists attack Russian school

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 270 words


   Police and troops today fought gunmen in and around a school in Nalchik,
capital of the southern Russian region of Kabardino-Balkariya.

A teacher from the school said pupils had managed to flee unharmed.

Smoke billowed from the school as panic-stricken parents searched for their
children.

A Russian news agency said security forces also repelled an attack against the
city's airport and at least three alleged militants were killed.

Fighting began after police in Nalchik received an anonymous telephoned tip that
a group of about 10 armed militants had entered the city, and police and
security forces launched a special operation to capture them.

Kabardino-Balkariya police said three of their units in the city had been
attacked by unknown assailants this morning. A policeman was wounded in the
fighting.

Intense shooting and grenade-launchers and could be heard in the centre of the
city.

Some Russian media claimed gunmen had launched simultaneous attacks on the
regional headquarters of the Interior Ministry and the Federal Security Service,
as well as a number of other buildings.

A news agency claimed the battle was sparked by the detention of a group of
adherents to the radical Wahhabi strain of Islam, and their fellow believers
were trying to free them. It said troops had surrounded Nalchik.

Kabardino-Balkariya, along with other southern Russian regions, has seen a rise
in Islamic extremism linked to the festering decade-old guerrilla conflict in
breakaway Chechnya.

NA gunman has opened fire at a primary school in eastern China, injuring 16
students before escaping.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2005 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Peterborough Evening Telegraph

                                October 14, 2005

ATTACK: Python strikes terror

LENGTH: 403 words


A PET snake sparked a 999 drama when it attacked one of its owners.

The man's terrified family, who wished to remain anonymous, called firefighters
after the 13ft long Burmese python escaped from its tank and lunged at him,
sinking its razor sharp fangs into his leg.

His wife managed to free him by prising the snake's jaw open before firefighters
arrived at the home in Eastrea Road, Whittlesey.

The creature had slithered out of its tank and on to the landing of the house
during the night, biting the man as he investigated the cries of his frightened
lodger.

He suffered bad cuts and bleeding, but the python is not poisonous and he did
not need hospital treatment.

His wife said the incident, which happened on Wednesday, had left the family
feeling shaken and they had decided to hand the snake over to a

rescue centre.

The snake, which can travel at up to 35mph and kills its prey in the wild by
squeezing it to death, will now be re-homed.

The woman, an experienced snake owner, said the creature had doubled in size
since she started caring for it two years ago, and she had recently ordered a
larger tank for it, but she no longer felt it was safe to keep it.

She said: "She was always a very gentle, docile thing and had been used for
entertaining by its previous owners.

"She did bite me once before, but that was my fault for putting my hand in the
tank when it had been eating.

"I feel very scared of it now. It was a completely unprovoked attack - it just
flew at him. It was horrible.

"It could have been much worse if it had been my little grandson walking across
the landing, so I think it's better to get rid of her."

The attack happened on the same day that another Burmese python was discovered
in the back garden of Trudy Dukes, in Ravensthorpe, Peterborough.

Mrs Dukes, an experienced snake handler, spotted the 4ft python in her garden,
picked it up and put it in a rabbit hutch until the RSPCA arrived.

The two incidents were completely unrelated.

Chris Nice, RSPCA Inspector for Cambridgeshire, today said Burmese pythons can
be very dangerous.

He said: "These snakes are only a couple of inches long where they first hatch,
but they can grow to up to 20ft and are extremely powerful.

"There have been cases in America where young children have been killed by
Burmese pythons and small pets are certainly at risk from them."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 15, 2005

QC ATTACKS TERROR LAW

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 137 words


TONY Blair's plans to allow terror suspects to be locked up without charge for
up to three months will come under fire today from one of the country's top
lawyers.

Guy Mansfield QC, chairman of the Bar Council, will warn that the proposal could
damage the Britain's reputation for fair justice.

And in a further blow to Mr Blair, he will say Parliament must stay out of how
judges interpret law and deal with extremists.

Mr Mansfield is the latest high-profile figure to raise concerns over the
anti-terror legislation.

He will tell the Bar Council's annual conference: "The proposal for three
months' detention without trial goes too far.

"Defendants charged with the most appalling crimes remain entitled to basic
rights." He will add: "Let me be clear. Parliament makes law. Judges apply it."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 16, 2005, Sunday

TERROR: PARLIAMENT TO MOVE TO HAMPSHIRE IN ATTACK

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 148 words


MPs and peers would be evacuated to an emergency parliament building in the Home
Counties if there was a major terrorist attack, it emerged last night. Under a
contingency plan, Operation Delta, the alternative parliament will be based at a
275-acre stately home in Hampshire currently used as a police training college.

Bramshill House, 50 miles from London, would cater for all parliamentarians,
their staff, officials and security staff. It would be used if Westminster
itself was hit by serious terror attack or the capital came under devastating
attack. The debating chamber will only house just over half the MPs, 360, but
has to cater for both the Commons and House of Lords. A secret dress rehearsal
was carried out three weeks ago, with Commons officials made to sign
confidentiality agreements. There was only one MP present, the Tory whip
Geoffrey Clifton-Brown.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            October 17, 2005, Monday

TERROR ATTACK PLAN FOR MPS

SECTION: Worcs Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 90 words


MPS and peers will be evacuated from Parliament to sit at a 275-acre stately
home in Hampshire in the event of a devastating terrorist attack, it was
reported.

Under a contingency plan codenamed Operation Delta, all Parliamentarians,
Commons officials, police, catering staff and the media would be transferred to
the alternative site within three hours of the emergency.

A substitute debating chamber, voting lobbies and offices have already been set
up at Bramshill House, a 17th-century building just 50 miles from London

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           October 18, 2005, Tuesday

KNIFEMAN SEX ATTACK TERROR OF STUDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 193 words


A HOODED junkie tried to rape a terrified student at knifepoint - and admitted
to cops later that he had probably ruined her life.

Garry Kane, 24 - who was high on heroin and booze - smashed his way into the
woman's home armed with the blade and wearing a pillowcase hood.

He forced his victim, 20, to strip and tried to rape her after putting the
pillowcase over her head.

Prosecutor Robert Weir told the High Court at Edinburgh: "He began to talk to
her, telling her he didn't want to hurt her,that he had been watching her and
that he expected to go to prison for this.

"He cried as he spoke and the victim was also crying and distressed."

Kane then ran a cold bath and plunged the woman into it before trying to rape
her again.

When she said she couldn't breathe, Kane adjusted the pillowcase and she saw his
face.

He was later arrested at his home in Lochee, Dundee. He told police he had
"probably ruined the lassie's life".

He said he remembered she was "scared as anything".

Kane, who admitted the attack, was"deeply sorry",his lawyer said.

He will be sentenced at a later date and was remanded in custody

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BEAST: Garry Kane

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 18, 2005, Tuesday

MUGABE ATTACKS 'TERRORIST' BLAIR

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 64 words


ROME Zimbabwe's President, Robert Mugabe, railed against President George Bush
and Tony Blair, calling them 'international terrorists' bent on world domination
like Adolf Hitler. Mr Mugabe departed from his text at a ceremony marking the
60th anniversary of the Food and Agriculture Organisation to accuse them of
illegally invading Iraq and looking to unseat other governments.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Personnel Today

                                October 18, 2005

Workforce planning Met Police to train up support staff to help in combating
terror attacks

BYLINE: Michael Millar

SECTION: News; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 331 words


Exclusive

By Michael Millar

The Metropolitan Police will call on support staff from across the authority to
take on certain policing duties if terrorists strike London again.

The move comes after the service found itself stretched to the limit on 7 July
when bombs exploded on three tube trains and on one bus, killing 56 people. Two
weeks later, the service was again at full capacity when there were four failed
attempts to bomb the transport network.

A report will be completed in two weeks which will recommend that the police set
up a central database of skills held by staff who would not normally respond to
emergency calls.

The Met hopes that a centralised source of information will allow it to mobilise
people quickly in a wide range of roles, including manning outer cordons, giving
out information, or certain driving duties.

This will free up police officers to deal with more pressing tasks, according to
Martin Tiplady, the Met's HR director.

"In the wake of 7/7 and 21/7 we mobilised almost every resource we had - we were
at full stretch," he told Personnel Today.

"In the event of a further attack we need to be looking at what else we can
mobilise - who might be able to carry out roles other than those for which they
are paid."

Tiplady said that the list would be compiled of volunteers who would be put
through risk assessments and trained in appropriate skills if necessary.

"The last thing we want is to make people nervous about what they will be asked
to do. The volunteers will be trained and prepared," he said.

There would be no shortage of volunteers, Tiplady added. "A high majority [of
police staff] said on 7/7 they wanted to do more."

The Met's proactive approach to business continuity is at odds with many other
employers in London, according to research.

A survey of 100 firms, by Cable and Wireless, reveals that less than a third of
London businesses have updated their business continuity plans since this
summer's terrorist incidents.

michael.millar@rbi.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                 Copyright  2005 Reed Business Information Ltd.
                              All rights reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Rugby Advertiser

                                October 20, 2005

Co-op staff threatened in terror attack

LENGTH: 218 words


TERRIFIED staff at a Bilton supermarket were threatened by a robber armed with a
rubber mallet.

The man entered the Heart of England Co-op store in The Green, Bilton at about
8pm last Wednesday evening carrying the weapon. The man, who was wearing a dark
baseball cap and a stocking mask to cover his face, threatened staff and
demanded a till be opened. After taking about £50 in cash, he then demanded a
second till was opened, but this was empty.

The robber then left the store with about £50 in cash and ran off down an
alleyway towards Magnet Lane. No-one was injured the incident, although staff at
the supermarket were left shocked.

Insp. Les Twynholm, of Rugby Police, said: "Unfortunately, when businesses deal
with the public there is always a degree of vulnerability and they are open to
attacks. Whenever we have offences of this nature we always look at ways of
improving security measures in place to stop them occurring in the future."

The man was said to be about 30 years old and white. He was of stocky build with
short brown hair and brown eyes. He was wearing a dark-coloured jacket with a
strap across the chest.

Anyone with any information is asked to contact PC David Howell at Rugby Police
Station on (01788) 541111 or ring Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            October 23, 2005, Sunday

SCHOOL TERROR 2;
 GANG OF BOYS ATTACK TEACHERS AND PUPILS DAY AFTER SHANNI SLASHED

BYLINE: BY JOHN KELLY

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 270 words

HIGHLIGHT: Timetable of fear at troubled Myrtle Springs school. Now a
12-year-old boy has been arrested; Scarred Shanni


TWO more pupils have been hurt at the school where 12-year-old Shanni Naylor was
slashed across her face in class.

Dance class teachers and pupils tried to barricade themselves in a room when a
gang of boys attacked them just one day after Shanni was wounded.

A 12-year-old member of the gang is alleged to have launched himself at two boys
aged 15 and 16 while teachers tried to fight him off. The students were left cut
and bruised.

Police later arrested him for violent disorder and he was remanded on bail.

Extra patrols have now been ordered at Myrtle Springs School in Sheffield, South
Yorks, but last night they and the school said the incident was not connected to
Wednesday's attack on Shanni. She needed 30 stitches to four gaping wounds on
her forehead and cheeks and her parents said: "It's a miracle she wasn't
blinded."

A 12-year-old girl will appear in court in December over the attack.

At another school, a storm of anger has flared over a boy of NINE found showing
off a knife to classmates. Parents are furious because his only punishment was
to be moved to another class for three days - an "in-school exclusion" - and
missing playtime.

They say he should have been banned from South Rise Primary in Plumstead,
South-East London.

But an education authority official said: "The school is sending out a strong
message by searching him in front of his school mates every day."

WEDNESDAY.. Schoolgirl Shanni Naylor is slashed after trying to stop bullying in
class by another pupil, 12

THURSDAY.. Teachers and two boys attacked by gang at afterschool dancing lessons

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                            October 23, 2005, Sunday

MUSLIM LEADER TELLS OF TERROR ATTACK AT HIS OWN HOME

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 688 words

HIGHLIGHT: THREATENED: Dr Mohammed Naseem inside his doctor's surgery which
(pictured below) is based at his home in Church Hill Road, Handsworth


A CONTROVERSIAL Muslim leader has told how he was tied up and threatened by an
armed gang in his own home.

And Dr Mohammed Naseem, 80, chairman of Birmingham Central Mosque, believes the
attack may have been politically motivated to frighten him off standing in the
last General Election.

'They tied my hands, taped over my mouth and put a gun to my head. It was
frightening,' he admitted last night.

The attack happened in February, just days after Dr Naseem announced that he was
standing for George Galloway's anti-war Respect Party coalition in the General
Election.

He was alone in his doctor's surgery - based at his home in Church Hill Road,
Handsworth - when three men brandishing a shotgun burst in.

They had duped their way in by initially booking an appointment for
circumcisions.

Although a retired GP, Dr Naseem still performs the medical procedure, mostly on
children and adult converts to Islam.

He charges £200 compared to hospital prices of around £1,500.

'I was waiting for the patients when they phoned to ask me to hold on for them
because they were held up on the motorway,' said Dr Naseem.

'But when they arrived, they took out a gun and bundled me upstairs into a back
room.

'They tied my hands, put tape across my mouth and started asking me questions. I
couldn't speak because of the tape. They tore it off and asked me where I kept
the money.

'I said there wasn't any. My secretary then popped into the surgery. I could
hear her moving about and I was hoping that she wouldn't come looking for me.

'She called out to me and I told her not to come in but she knew something was
up and said: 'No, I'm coming in'. She pushed the door and the men grabbed her
and tied her up, too.'

After about half an hour, the men fled.

Police were called in and carried out forensic tests on the surgery, taking away
the tape used to tie the gang's two victims.

One of the assailants - none wearing masks - was thought to be Somalian while
the other two appeared to be of West Indian origin.

West Midlands Police confirmed that officers investigated an attempted robbery
at the surgery.

A spokeswoman said: 'Police received a call at 8.35pm on February 22 to an
address in Church Hill Road, Handsworth.

'Three men had tied up an 81 year-old man and a 56 year-old woman, using tape
and cord. They were threatened with a shotgun and the offenders stole a phone
and a vehicle, which was later recovered by officers nearby.

'A small quantity of cash was also stolen from the vehicle.

'The offenders were described as black, between 5ft 10ins and 6ft 5ins tall,
medium build, aged 30 to 45. Forensic examinations have been carried out and
officers are currently awaiting results of further inquiries.

'There is no known motive for the attack.'

Dr Naseem says he has no evidence to prove that the attack was more than a
robbery but remains sceptical as to the motives of his attackers.

'I'm not saying my political enemies were behind it, but the whole thing was
strange,' he said. 'Although the men asked for money, they didn't seem bothered
when I said there wasn't any.

'They didn't go looking for anything else either. One of them was on the mobile
the whole time. They appeared to be taking instructions throughout the whole
incident.

'The timing of the attack, just days after I declared I was standing for
Parliament, also makes me wonder.'

Dr Naseem was urged to resign earlier this year for claiming there was no proof
that Muslims were involved in the London bombings.

He said that eight suspects named in the two Tube and bus attacks 'could have
been innocent passengers', called Tony Blair a liar and even cast doubt on the
existence of Al Qaida.

The comments led Khalid Mahmood, Labour MP for Birmingham Perry Barr, to call
for Dr Naseem's resignation, describing his position as 'untenable'.

The Respect Party immediately came to the defence of the Dr Naseem over his war
of words with the Muslim MP.

It insisted that the mosque leader was a moderate figure who was being attacked
by his New Labour opponents

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 24, 2005

City: Square Mile to test its resistance to terror attack

BYLINE: Jill Treanor

SECTION: Guardian Financial Pages, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 101 words


The largest exercise in the world to prepare a financial system for terrorist
attack or other disaster will take place in the City of London on November 28.
At least 80 firms are expected to participate in a scenario which is intended to
test the financial system to its limits. The Financial Services Authority, which
with the Bank of England and the Treasury is responsible for ensuring that
financial markets can withstand a crisis, gave bankers an outline, but not
details, of the exercise last week. Possible scenarios include an epidemic,
natural disaster or electricity supply disruption.


LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 26, 2005

Officials missed clues to trap July 7 bomber: Attacker associated with known
terrorists, BBC says: Sidique Khan's meetings were caught on film

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 549 words


Britain's counter terrorism officials missed several chances over a four-year
period to identify as an Islamist terrorist the British man suspected of
masterminding the July 7 attacks, it was alleged last night.

Mohammed Sidique Khan is reported to have been associating with people
identified by western security services as being suspected in involvement in
terrorism prior to the attacks on Britain, the BBC last night reported. Khan is
believed to have been the dominant figure in the group of four West Yorkshire
men who launched suicide bomb attacks against the capital's transport system
which killed 52 people and injured more than 700.

The terror connections of the one-time classroom assistant are alleged to
include Pakistan, Malaysia and the Philippines.

Last night it was alleged that Khan was even caught on film and recorded by the
security services, meeting a British-based terrorism suspect. He is also alleged
to have to have met a terrorist called Hambali in 2001 after travelling to
Malaysia. The allegation comes from an interview by Rohan Gunaratna, an academic
researcher, with a man in custody in Indonesia on suspicion of being linked to a
terrorist bombing.

The detainee reportedly said he took Mohammed Sidique Khan to meet and train
with leaders from the extremist Islamist group Jemaah Islamiah which is linked
to al-Qaida in the Far East.

The BBC did not specify who its sources were or from what agencies they came,
though they appeared to be from the counter terrorism community.

The report also linked Khan to a US based Islamist, now in custody, who is
alleged to have ties to al-Qaida and whom the BBC described as an "al-Qaida
fixer".

It is alleged the fixer visited Pakistan where he stayed with a senior member of
the British wing of the extreme Islamist group al-Muhajiroun. Khan is also
alleged to have stayed with the British Islamist radical in a Manchester flat
and to have met with the fixer for Bin Laden's group in 2003 both in Leeds and
Pakistan.

The BBC report is not the first claim in the media based on alleged whistle
blowing counter terrorism sources to allege clues about Khan's activities were
missed.

Just before the July attacks an official anti-terrorism body said it did not
believe Britain was under imminent risk of attack.

The BBC claimed that its new information, if true, would amount to a "serious
failure" of intelligence and demonstrate that Khan had been allowed to "slip
away". The allegations potentially embarrass agencies involved in Britain's
counter terrorism efforts. They include MI5, MI6, and Scotland Yard. The home
office, the government department that usually answers for MI5, refused to
discuss the allegation, as did Scotland Yard.

If the BBC's claims are true, the errors would fit a pattern. After the
September 11 attacks, and after the Madrid train bombings, it emerged clues had
been missed pointing to the attackers.

Last month a video surfaced in which Khan and Bin Laden's deputy, Ayman al
Zawahiri, appeared separately, praising and justifying the attacks. Some took
the video as been a direct claim of responsibility by al-Qaida for the attacks
on Britain.

The government is tomorrow scheduled to unveil new anti-terrorism measures
before Commons.


LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                October 26, 2005

Cameron to attack terrorism response in speech at bombers' home community

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 593 words


Simon McGee

DAVID Cameron will today use a visit to the Leeds neighbourhood where two of the
July 7 London bombers grew up to set out his vision for tackling terrorism,
while accusing Labour of using it to erode civil liberties.

The frontrunner in the race for the Conservative crown will say a robust foreign
policy, a security policy which balances vigilance and freedom, and promoting a
sense of national cohesion are fundamental to any response to the terror threat.

In his most wideranging policy speech of the leadership contest so far, he will
also stress the importance of community and personal responsibility, and say
Labour has confused a strong society with a strong state.

But the speech will also be seen as a shot across the bow of rival David Davis.

His supporters will be furious by what will be regarded as a blatant move by the
Shadow Education Secretary onto the Shadow Home Secretary's portfolio, on a day
when Mr David appears in the Commons to debate the controversial new
Counter-Terrorism Bill.

And they will feel particularly indignant after the Mr Davis, Haltemprice and
Howden MP, decided earlier this week not to comment on education policy because
Mr Cameron had to respond yesterday to the Government's education White Paper.

Mr Cameron will tell his audience: "Tragically, terrorism has touched people and
communities all over this country, not least here in Beeston".


In a rousing attack on Labour's handling of anti-terror measures, he will
declare: "This Government has been casual about our security.

"There are serious questions to be answered about the resources available to our
security services, the effectiveness of our border controls, and the operation
of our asylum system.

"At the same time the Government has been casual about our liberties.

"The Prime Minister said that when the police ask him for new powers, he says
yes. That's a failure of judgement and leadership

"Fighting terrorism requires vigilance not just about security, but about our
liberty".


Tackling it will also require "resolve" in foreign policy, in which Mr Cameron
believes "we must redouble our efforts to support those Palestinians who are
working for a successful state, at peace with Israel".

The 39-year-old will also appeal for a stronger sense of national cohesion.

"We've always believed in personal responsibility; we must now show that when it
comes to creating community cohesion, this is part of a shared responsibility -
that we're all in this together," he will say.

"We've always believed in limited government; we must now show that community
organisations, voluntary bodies and neighbourhood action are all part of our
vision for renewing community cohesion and pride.

"We must make it clear that there is such a thing as society, it's just not the
same thing as the state".


Mr Cameron's tour of Leeds will include a visit to a mosque, a meeting with
members of the British Indian Association and representatives of the Beeston
community, and Tory councillors and activists at the Civic Hall.

Two of the four London bombers, Shehzad Tanweer and Mohammad Sidique Khan, came
from Beeston.

Last night, the candidates and the returning officer for the Conservative
leadership election announced that they had agreed the programme of 11
leadership contest hustings that will take place over the six-weeks until the
close of postal ballots on December 5.

Party members in Yorkshire will get their chance to grill the contenders on
Tuesday, November 15, in York.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2005

                       Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                October 27, 2005

Terror of chainsaw attack on girl in car

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 369 words


A Man who started cutting up a car with a chainsaw while his fiancee sat inside
has escaped jail. William McWilliam's hysterical fiancee Carol Reid was found
hiding in a barn after the Ford Fiesta's windscreen was sliced open in the
incident on Deeside.

Sawmill worker McWilliam, 27, previously admitted breach of the peace and
appeared for sentence at Stonehaven Sheriff Court yesterday.

Fiscal depute Karen Dow had told the court Miss Reid went to McWilliam's
farmhouse and found he had been drinking.

They had an argument and she left to let things cool down, before returning.

The fiscal depute said: "She returned to the farm and saw the accused. He was
holding a chainsaw which he was revving up.

"He approached the car and demanded that Carol Reid hand over house keys.

"He said if she did not he would put the chainsaw through the window.

"When she made no effort he placed the chainsaw against the front windscreen and
cut three incisions through it in front of her.

"She was in the driver's seat." She got out the car and McWilliam, of West
Roseburn Farmhouse, Dess, Aboyne, switched the chainsaw off and put it down.

Police were called and found three long cuts completely through the windscreen.

The fiscal depute added: "Police searched the farm and found Carol Reid hiding
in a barn. She was almost hysterical and appeared scared.

"Although distressed, Miss Reid was physically uninjured." Defence agent Peter
Shepherd said: "Mr McWilliam's position is that his fiancee was adamant she was
going to drive off a cliff. He did not want that to happen.

"The way he went about preventing her implementing that threat was wholly
inappropriate.

"At no time did he intend any harm. His actions were to prevent any harm.

"She is still his fiancee." McWilliam admitted behaving in a disorderly manner,
brandishing a chainsaw and repeatedly cutting a motor vehicle within which she
was sitting with a chainsaw to her fear and alarm, smashing a passenger side
window and committing a breach of the peace on December 14last year.

Sheriff Patrick Davies said it was "bizarre and unusual behaviour" and he placed
McWilliam was placed on probation for a year.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                   © Copyright 2005 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 27, 2005

Training base to respond to terror attacks

BYLINE: Colette Warbrook

SECTION: News; 999; Fires; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 397 words


A New state-of-the-art centre to train firefighters in tackling terrorist
attacks was unveiled near Bath yesterday. The new South West Command Development
Centre has been opened by the Avon Fire and Rescue Service at its base in
Lansdown.

Service chiefs say the facility is unique in the country, and that it will help
in the training of all its staff, as well as those from other organisations.

Terry Walker, chairman of Avon Fire Authority, led the opening ceremony, which
was also attended by representatives from the Office of the Deputy Prime
Minister, Government Office South West and the four unitary authorities in the
former Avon area.

Video presentations and tours of the centre took place throughout the day.

Chief fire officer Kevin Pearson said: "This centre offers a fantastic
opportunity for training and development, not just for our staff but also for
other organisations.

"The centre is primarily for incident command training for officers and
managers.

"We can simulate virtually any type of incident, ranging from a standard house
fire to a major incident involving terrorism.

"We believe the centre is unique in the country.

"Certainly there is nothing of this scale or level of infrastructure and support
anywhere else in the UK." The service said the training centre would stay at
Lansdown even when the site's control room was shut.

The Government has announced the seven existing control rooms in the south west,
including Lansdown, will be replaced with a single control centre in Taunton.

Mr Pearson said the new training centre at Lansdown was in a separate building
to the control room.

He said: "There are two buildings on the site at Lansdown. One was a Cold War
bunker and the other is a more modern building that houses our control room.

"The refurbishment work we have undertaken was done in the bunker, with a view
to bringing it back into operational use for training." Mr Pearson added the
facility complemented the service's Joint Training Centre at Severnpark, near
Bristol.

He said: "Severnpark's facilities are primarily aimed at practical, realistic
training for firefighters.

"But the facilities we have put in place at Lansdown mean our officers and
incident managers are also being provided with the opportunities to develop
their incident command skills." cwarbrook@bathchron.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                     © Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 27, 2005

France: Civil rights group attacks tough new anti-terror law

BYLINE: Kim Willsher

SECTION: Guardian International Pages, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 98 words


The French interior minister, Nicolas Sarkozy, was accused yesterday of
attacking civil liberties after unveiling tough anti-terrorism laws that will
increase video surveillance of the public, provide greater official access to
phone and internet records and set longer jail terms. The National Commission
for Information and Liberty Clauses said there was a "serious risk to
individuals' freedom" in the new law, which aims to pre-empt terror attacks by
charging suspects with "intention" rather than definite action. The bill will be
put to the national assembly on November 22.


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 29, 2005, Saturday

LIVING IN HELL;
 COMMUNITY TERROR AS HOODS ATTACK RESIDENTS, KILL PETS AND TORCH

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE BY MAURICE FITZMAURICE

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 392 words

HIGHLIGHT: DESTRUCTION: Burned-out car and smashed glass at the front of a
house; BLAZE: The shell of a building after a night of trouble in the Co Tyrone
estate earlier this month; DISGUST: Francie Molloy


PETRIFIED residents of an under siege housing estate told yesterday how a
ruthless gang is making their lives hell.

People living in the housing development said the area is gripped by fear after
years of brutal attacks.

They added that Ballygawley Road estate in Dungannon, Co Tyrone, has become a
no-go area. Attacks include:

VICIOUS pitbulls being set on local pets

PEOPLE attacked on the street

RESIDENTS forced out of their homes, and

HOUSES and cars set on fire and a man's dog battered to death with hammers.

One resident, too frightened to be named, said: "There's a lot of fear in the
area. There's been people shot for standing up to these boys. These people are
scum. They want to drive all the good families out and turn it into their own
little kingdom."

Other locals said most of the trouble can be put down to one family and that the
head of the family is a fierce guy.

One source said: "This guy is into all sorts of criminality. He doesn't look
like he's got a job. He has a few henchmen who are the main hoods in the area."

In one attack, a thug set his pitbull terrier on another man's dog, which was
mauled to death.

Sources said the same pitbull was used to attack fire crews as they tackled a
blaze a several weeks ago.

Another resident had his dog battered to death after he stood up to the thugs.

At least eight families, most believed to be migrant workers, moved out recently
after a number of attacks.

In a development of just 200 homes, the Housing Executive said 25 are boarded
up.

A fireman said the thugs once set derelict houses alight in a bid to burn an
entire terrace.

He added: "It seems there is a house set alight nearly every week. And if it's
not houses it's cars wheeled into people's yards and set alight.

"It's got to the stage now that we always send up at least two fire appliances
and we always reverse into any cul-de-sac or dead ends before we start so we can
get out quickly if we need to."

The mayor of Dungannon, Sinn Fein's Francie Molloy, condemned the thugs and
added that the estate was "being held to ransom by a small clique". He called
for a "multi-agency approach" to tackle the problem.

A PSNI spokesman said officers were working "tirelessly" to deal with the
problem but that they needed the co-operation of local people.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 31, 2005 Monday

Yemen condemns New Delhi terror attack

LENGTH: 100 words


Text of report in English by Yemeni news agency Saba website

Sanaa, 30 October: Yemen condemned on Sunday [30 October] the terrorist attack
that killed at least 61 people in the Indian capital, New Delhi.

In his remarks to Saba, an official source in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
said such terrorist attacks are imposing on the international community to take
more actions and put an end to terrorism worldwide.

The source expressed deep sympathies of the government and people of Yemen to
the families of the innocent victims.

Source: Saba news agency website, Sanaa, in English 2219 gmt 31 Oct 05

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 31, 2005 Monday

Tajik leader condemns Indian terror attacks

LENGTH: 186 words


Text of report by Tajik Avesta website on 31 October

Dushanbe, 31 October: Tajik President Emomali Rahmonov sent a telegram of
condolences to Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh this morning in connection
with the terrorist acts committed in this country last Saturday [29 October],
the president's press service has told Avesta.

Offering his condolences and sympathy to the kith and kin of the deceased and to
those who suffered from the attack, Emomali Rahmonov said that Tajikistan "calls
for the effective consolidation of the world community's efforts to fight
international terrorism".

"A series of terrorist acts in crowded areas of the Indian capital, which
claimed the lives of civilians, have caused strong indignation in Tajikistan.
Strongly condemning these inhumane acts, we declare our support to the efforts
directed at effectively fighting this evil."

We recall that three explosions took place in crowded areas of New Delhi on
Saturday. According to latest reports, 60 people died, about 200 people were
injured and 40 people are missing.

Source: Avesta website, Dushanbe, in Russian 1010 gmt 31 Oct 05

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 1, 2005 Tuesday

Swedish Security Police rejects military role in terrorist attack

LENGTH: 148 words


Text of staff report entitled "SAPO no to military deployment in terrorist
attack", published by Swedish newspaper Dagens Nyheter on 1 November

The Security Police [SAPO] reject the proposal that the military could be
deployed in response to a terrorist attack if the government has not made a
decision.

SAPO head Klas Bergenstrand says that it is already possible today in the light
of the constitutional provision on emergency defence. A government decision
would clearly delineate that the use of military resources can only occur in a
national emergency. Bergenstrand emphasizes that a possible decision to shoot
down a fully loaded commercial aircraft is an ethical, moral and political
problem.

"For a number of reasons this decision should lie at the level that in reality
would have political responsibility for developments."

Source: Dagens Nyheter, Stockholm in Swedish 1 Nov 05 p 8

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Hull Daily Mail

                                November 1, 2005

Pauline feared terror attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 611 words


Pauline Prescott, wife of Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott, today told a
court of her terror as Greenpeace protesters scaled the walls of their east Hull
home. Eight campaigners deny public order offences.

THE wife of Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott feared for her life when
protesters climbed to the roof of her city home.

Pauline Prescott today told Hull Magistrates' Court she thought terrorists were
going to smash through the windows of the house in Saltshouse Road, east Hull.

She was speaking at the beginning of the trial of eight members of campaign
group Greenpeace.

They are each charged with contravening a police direction and using
threatening, abusive or insulting words or behaviour.

They were charged after the environmental campaigners scaled the walls of the
house and installed solar panels on the roof in a eight-hour protest which began
at 6am on April 26 this year.

Dressed in a black trouser suit and white blouse, Mrs Prescott's voice wavered
as she addressed the court.

She said she was woken from her sleep by an intercom call from an armed Special
Branch office, guarding the house.

She said: "They said, 'Mrs Prescott, we have a number of people on your roof'.

"I said, 'Who are they? Are they terrorists? Are they going to come crashing
through my windows?'" At times, Mrs Prescott, who apologised for being nervous,
was asked to slow down her speech by district judge Frederick Rutherford.

She told the court: "I was absolutely terrified, in fear of my life frankly."
She said officers directed her via the intercom to go to her husband's secretary
Della Georgeson, who had been sleeping in a guest bedroom.

She said she saw one protester pass the window of Mrs Georgeson's room.

She said she frantically tried to seek reassurances she was safe by trying to
contact husband Hull East MP John Prescott, who was on the campaign trail ahead
of the May General Election.

She left a message on Mr Prescott's answering machine and instead spoke to one
of her sons, a military police officer.

He told her to remain locked in a bedroom with Mrs Georgeson.

The women together stayed locked in Mrs Prescott's room for half an hour before
Mr Prescott returned her call.

She said: "I tried to ring my husband - I was frightened. I was running all over
the place." She said when she spoke to Mr Prescott, he said: "I believe there is
Greenpeace on the roof.

"I didn't feel that much better but it was a little bit more reassuring." She
said she remained in the bedroom until the protesters came down from the roof at
about 2.30pm.

She said she had watched the drama unfold on television.

She said: ""It was absolutely awful. It was terrible to see it unfolding on
television.

"I felt disbelief that all this was taking place on my roof." Under
cross-examination from Francis Fitzgibbon, she said she would have been
surprised to learn police officer patrolling her house knew the protestors were
environmentalists and not terrorists.

And she said her husband had always supported Greenpeace.

"The way they performed at my house, I now think they are terrorists," she said.

"They acted that way, knowing my husband was away. Why pick on me?" Martin
Cotterill, 38, of Penrith, Cumbria, Samuel Daniel, 33, of London, Catherine
Dorey, 36, of London, Laura Yates, 28, London, Steven Scott, 34, of Matlock,
Derbyshire, Andrew Taylor, 36, of Stroud, Gloucestershire, victoria Thomas, 27,
of Powys, and Sarah North, 36, of London all deny the charges.

(Proceeding) h.jones@hdmp.co.uk Links Greenpeace www.greenpeace.org.uk Crown
Prosecution Service www.cps.gov.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                        © Copyright 2005 Hull Daily Mail

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                November 1, 2005

Sam to live pub dream following terrorist attack

SECTION: Features; Health; Others; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 705 words


Sam Nicol left Swansea for London as a 21-year-old in search of work. Nine years
later she's returned to take on the revival of one of the city's landmark pubs -
The Bay View on Oystermouth Road. While away she got married, had two children -
and two major operations for a rare brain tumour. Her return home was prompted
by the death of a close friend in the Kings' Cross terrorist bomb. ABIGAIL HART
went to meet her. Sam Nicol had already had enough of life in London, but the
July terrorist bombings were the final straw.

"I lost a very good friend in the bombings," explains Sam. "She was standing
right next to the Kings Cross bomber, their DNA was mixed together - she was so
close." The tragedy was enough to make her and her Australian husband Matt pack
their bags and return home to Swansea.

"We had been looking for somewhere to buy for a while, but we just wanted to get
out after that," says Matt. "We didn't care whether we found anywhere to buy or
not." The couple had been running pubs in London for years and wanted to set up
on their own.

The Baye View (as it was then spelt) on Oystermouth Road, came up for sale and
the couple bought it.

Three weeks and a lot of hard work later it's reopened as an upmarket Thai
dining room with bar and lounge attached.

Their children (seven-year-old Millie and Jackson, aged three) are happily
settled into a nearby school and the restaurant is already full.

But the dream of returning home with her family and running her own business
nearly didn't come true for Sam.

Four years ago she started getting double vision and headaches.

"I was getting up to 30 a day, some would only last a few seconds, but there
were so many," she says.

She spent eight months visiting ophthalmologists trying to find out what was
wrong before she was finally sent for an MRI scan.

It showed a growth in her brain so she underwent a five-hour biopsy to find out
what it was. It turned out to be a very rare myoxoid chondrosarcoma tumour
located in her brain.

Chemotherapy and radiotherapy weren't suitable and its position meant it was too
risky to operate on.

Sam just had to get on with life as best she could.

"Ten days after the operation I found out I pregnant," she says. "I was worried
because I had been taking steroids and had had a general anaesthetic. They also
didn't know whether the baby would cause the tumour to accelerate." The couple
thought they might have to terminate the pregnancy.

"But we thought that if it had survived everything so far then it was meant to
be," says Sam.

Millie was born safely nine months later, but Sam continued to have health
problems.

"I was tired all the time, had headaches and terrible lethargy," she says.

Eventually she discovered a surgeon who was willing to operate on the tumour.
She was told there was a 60 per cent chance that her face would suffer partial
paralysis, she would lose the hearing in one ear and may have her sight
affected. There was also a risk that she may not survive the operation. But it
was one she was willing to take.

"It was like having a ticking time bomb, I didn't dwell on it, but I did think
about it every day," says Sam. "I just wanted to get on with it, anything was
better than just sitting and waiting." Sam underwent the surgery at the National
Hospital of Neurology in February.

"Her mum and I waved goodbye when she went into surgery. We didn't know whether
we'd see her alive again," Matt remembers.

But within a week Sam was out of hospital and walking with the help of a crutch.

"They had to drill through my ear canal, so I had no balance and felt sea sick
to start with," she says.

Her face did droop for a short time, but is now back to normal.

The only tell tale is part of a large scar running behind her ear.

"I feel much better and had an MRI scan three months ago that showed 95 per cent
of the tumour has gone," says Sam.

Now she's back home close to her old friends and family and looking forward to
building up their new business.

"It has been hard work getting this place ready. We have been working 20 hour
days," says Sam.

"But it is great to be back home near my family and the sea again."

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                   © Copyright 2005 South Wales Evening Post

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                     November 2, 2005 Wednesday 5:44 AM GMT

Australian shares close lower on low volume, terrorist attack warning

LENGTH: 230 words


SYDNEY (AFX) - Share prices closed lower after directionless trade on relatively
low volumes and few factors to give the market momentum, dealers said.

They said in contrast to recent trading sessions there was little volatility as
investors sat on the sidelines, content to maintain portfolio positions.

Dealers said sentiment was soured after Prime Minister John Howard warned about
the possibility of a terrorist attack in Australia.

The key S&P/ASX 200 index closed down 18.4 points or 0.41 pct at 4,456.3, off
the day's high of 4,482.0 and a low of 4,441.8.

The All Ordinaries index fell 16.2 points to 4,408.8.

Dealers said gold stocks were in favor as expectations rose about further
corporate activity in the global gold sector and following this week's 9.2 bln
usd bid by Canada's Barrick Gold Corp for fellow Canadian gold miner Placer
Dome.

Elsewhere, trading was stock specific with construction and property group
Multiplex rising after maintaining its earnings guidance despite the possibility
of further cost blow-outs at its troubled Wembley Stadium project in London.

Westpac was suspended from trading after realising it had inadvertently emailed
market sensitive information to analysts ahead of its annual result's
announcement.

The announcement was scheduled for tomorrow but is being brought forward to this
afternoon.

(1 usd = 1.34 aud)

bruce.hextall@xfn.com

blh/pd/dg

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 2, 2005 Wednesday

Jordan dismantles "terrorist network" said planning attacks against US, Iraq

LENGTH: 575 words


Excerpt from report by Ahmad Kurayshan in Amman published by Jordanian newspaper
Al-Ra'y on 31 October

The General Intelligence Department has dismantled an alleged terrorist network,
presumed to be the 10th one since the beginning of this year. Some 15 defendants
belong to this network, and 10 of its members have been arrested while five
members remain at large and fugitives from justice. All of them are Jordanian
nationals. The indictment states that the members are linked to an organization
which planned to carry out military operations against the Americans and the
Iraqi army and police by blowing up booby-trapped cars, tried to infiltrate the
Syrian territory illegally across the Jordanian border and attacked anyone who
obstructed their route while crossing the line of division.

The indictment, which was issued by the State Security Prosecution yesterday,
reveals that some of the defendants headed for Syria and met some Saudis and
Libyans residing in a flat there. They proposed to them to carry out terrorist
operations against the Americans and the Iraqi army and police by staging
booby-trapped car explosions in Iraq.

The State Security public prosecutor charged the defendants, whose ages range
between 27 and 38 years, with three things. These are: owning an automatic
weapon (Kalashnikov machine-gun) with the intention of using it in an illegal
manner, contrary to the rulings of Article 11/1 of the law on firearms and
ammunition number 34 for the year 1952; and proceeding with acts that are banned
by the government that could cloud the clear relations the kingdom has with
another foreign country, contrary to the regulations stipulated in Article 118/2
of the Penal Code number 16 of the year 1960 and with the evidence from Article
70 of the same law with regard to all five defendants; the military public
prosecutor also charged them with infiltration and aiding infiltration to and
from the Jordanian territory while carrying an automatic weapon, the Kalashnikov
machine-gun, contrary to the rulings stipulated in Article 149/3 of the Penal
Code Number 16 for the year 1960.

According to the names listed in the case, the defendants are: first defendant
Muhammad Ibrahim Khalil al-Ghawi, 25; second defendant Faris Sa'id Hasan
Shawtar, 32; third defendant, Muhammad Jamil Abdallah Du'ays al-Titi, 22; fourth
defendant, Ra'uf Mustafa Abdallah Abu-Mayha, 22; fifth defendant, Muhammad
Mahmud Ali al-Sharman, 29; sixth defendant, Basil Muhammad Sulayman al-Rammah,
29; seventh defendant, Mun'im Ibrahim Mustafa Hassan, 31; eighth defendant,
Ra'id Ahmad Rashid Kaywan, 33; fourteenth defendant, Qasim Muhammad Sulayman
Rammah, 26 and fifteenth defendant, Majdi Khalid Hasan al-Fa'ur, 21.

The fugitive defendants are: ninth defendant, Khaldun Faysal Khalil Kahhul;
tenth defendant, Rami Ali Mahmud Hanandah; eleventh defendant, Ahmad Awad Salim
Barakat; twelfth defendant, Husayn Fawzi Rahil Qudaysat; and thirteenth
defendant, Walid Khadir Isa Rabi.

The case was classified as criminal case number 1759/2005.

The military public prosecutor referred the case to the State Security Court,
which in turn issued a decision to grant the five fugitive defendants time to
surrender to the specialized authorities, in application of the rulings of
Article 234/2 of the Law on the Rules of Criminal Trials 9/1961 to try each of
them for the charges levelled against them. [Passage omitted]

Source: Al-Ra'y, Amman, in Arabic 31 Oct 05 p 5

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 02, 2005, Wednesday

I feared protest by Greenpeace was terror attack, says Prescott's wife

BYLINE: By Paul Stokes

SECTION: News Pg. 007

LENGTH: 920 words

PAULINE PRESCOTT, the Deputy Prime Minister's wife, told a court yesterday that
she felt terrorised when forced to lock herself in her bedroom for eight hours
as Greenpeace activists staged a roof-top protest at her home.

Mrs Prescott, whose husband was away fighting the general election campaign,
said she feared for her life after a police officer woke her when he called on
her intercom at 6.30am to warn her about the demonstration.

Mrs Prescott took the officer's advice and locked herself in, ushering her
husband's terrified secretary, Della Georgeson, into the bedroom with her.

Worried that terrorists were about to storm her home, she demanded to know how
the protesters had managed to outmanoeuvre the armed guard outside the house
where the couple have lived for 28 years.

"I said, 'How is that possible? We have two armed police officers outside,' "
she told Hull magistrates' court yesterday.

"I said, 'Who are they? Are they terrorists? Are they going to come crashing
through my windows?' "

The incident started early on April 26, when several vehicles "screeched to a
halt" just inches from the Prescotts' detached home in Hull, the court heard.

Up to 20 protesters then started climbing over the gates.

Two armed officers on duty outside the house immediately drew their weapons when
confronted by the activists. But the court heard they put their weapons back in
their holsters when the intruders told them they were from Greenpeace and
unarmed. The protesters then put ladders up the sides of the house and eight of
them climbed on to the two turrets on either side of the front of the building.

The court was told how, once there, the demonstrators erected solar panel units
and unfurled two large banners which read: "Oi! Two Jags. Hit Targets, Not
Voters."

Mrs Prescott said it was half an hour before she found out it was a Greenpeace
demonstration in a telephone call from her husband.

She told the court: "He said he believed there was Greenpeace on the roof. I
must say I didn't feel all that much better but it was a little bit more
reassuring."

Asked if she regarded Greenpeace as a terrorist organisation, she replied: "The
way that they performed at my house, I'm having second thoughts about it, quite
frankly. This was a carefully-planned military operation." She told the court
she stayed in her bedroom with Miss Georgeson, who thought she was "going to
die", until about 2pm, sustained only by the odd biscuit.

Mrs Prescott was the first witness to be called in the trial of eight people
accused of using threatening, abusive or insulting words and behaviour, and
contravening a police direction.

She made a 45-minute appearance in the witness box, dressed in a black trouser
suit and wearing a large silver brooch in the shape of a ship's anchor.

Mrs Prescott said the experience had been "absolutely awful" and that she had
felt terrorised.

"I am a private person and what really did annoy me is that these people knew
that my husband was on the campaign trail. They knew I was there on my own. That
really was cowardly. Terribly intimidating. Dreadful."

At one stage she addressed her comments directly to the eight defendants sitting
in a row about 15ft away from her, telling them her husband was a "great
supporter of Greenpeace".

She said Mr Prescott once swam up the Thames as part of a protest against
nuclear dumping many years ago.

Mrs Prescott told the court that she was not a panicky person and had been in
her large house alone for many years without ever calling the police or hitting
any panic buttons. But she said what happened on the day had made her extremely
nervous in her own home, which was "no way to live, quite frankly".

Mrs Prescott was asked by Francis Fitzgibbon, for the defence, if she was
exaggerating how frightened she was that morning. She replied indignantly: "I
think that is quite disgusting. I should not have been in the position I was
in."

Pc Wayne York, one of the armed officers on duty at the house, said he
confronted the demonstrators and told them: "Police. Stand still. What are you
doing?"

One of the demonstrators replied: "Don't shoot, don't shoot. We are from
Greenpeace. This is a peaceful protest." Pc York said: "We realised they were
carrying no weapons and we were absolutely outnumbered. There were at least 15
to 20 of them."

He said he received a mobile phone call from Mrs Prescott only a minute or two
after the incident began, told her the demonstrators were from Greenpeace and
that she should stay indoors and "execute her internal security measures".
Martin Cotterill, 38, of Penrith, Cumbria; Samuel Daniel, 33, of London;
Catherine Dorey, 36, of Highbury, north London; Laura Yates, 28, of London;
Steven Scott, 34, of Matlock, Derbyshire; Andrew Taylor, 36, of Stroud, Glos;
Victoria Thomas, 27, of Howey, Powys; and Sarah North, 36, of London, all deny
the two charges.

The hearing continues.

Greens' ship rams coral reef

The environmental group Greenpeace agreed yesterday to pay pounds 4,000
compensation after its ship, the Rainbow Warrior II, rammed a coral reef in the
Philippines.

The vessel was approaching the Tubbataha Reef, a Unesco World Heritage site off
Palawan, when it struck a coral wall on Monday.

The vessel's inflatables were used to tow it into deeper water and inspection
dives showed that around 1,000 sq ft of coral had been damaged, although the
ship only suffered paint scratches.

"We feel very troubled by the accident," said a Greenpeace spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                November 2, 2005

We have foiled new wave of terror attacks says Met chief

BYLINE: ISABEL OAKESHOTT

SECTION: A_MERGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 469 words


A NEW wave of terror attacks on Britain has been foiled.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Ian Blair revealed today how intelligence
chiefs and detectives have prevented a number of new outrages since the July
bombings.

He said the authorities were preparing for further attacks in the next few
months and said new police powers to detain suspects were now urgent.

He said: "The sky is dark. Intelligence exists to suggest that other groups will
attempt to attack Britain in the coming months. We need to detain terrorist
suspects for far longer than we have ever had to do before."

Sir Ian, who briefed the Prime Minister earlier this week on the latest security
situation, spoke out as MPs from all parties preparedto challenge sweeping new
anti terror laws.

Many backbenchers are unhappy about a new power allowing police to detain
terrorist suspects without charge for up to three months. Conservatives and
Liberal Democrats are determined to have the clause watered down when the
legislation is scrutinised by a cross-party committee in the Commons today.

But in a passionate appeal, Sir Ian urged them to throw their weight behind the
new legislation. Writing in today's Sun newspaper, he said: "This is a matter on
which the professional opinion of the police, including my most senior and
experienced antiterrorist officers - backed by senior people in the Security
Service - is clear.

"The reasons are simple. These people present a threat so profound that as soon
as we begin to understand that they are planning an attack, we must disrupt them
by arrest. There is no choice."

He told how it could take weeks or even months to find clues, analyse possible
crime scenes, and liaise with officers in other countries, before an arrest
could be made.

He told of one case in which intelligence experts were forced to examine an
encrypted computer which held the equivalent of 60,000 feet of paper.

He said: "Was there a vital clue in there somewhere?

Yes, but we were fortunate that it was pretty near the beginning, otherwise we
would never have found it within the current time limit. It took us two weeks to
enter the bomb factory in Leeds after July 7, let alone analyse it, because the
scene was so dangerous. Inquiries into these cases can also stretch across the
world."

He added: "What are we to do? Let them go?"

The Conservatives, who backed the new anti-terror laws at the crucial second
reading of the Bill last week, plan to put down an amendment today watering down
the three months to 28 days.

It is likely to be backed by the Liberal Democrats.

A damning report by Amnesty International today condemns the new legislation as
"ill conceived and dangerous".

Amnesty believes the new Bill contains "sweeping and vague provisions".

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                November 2, 2005

TERROR ON BUSES AS THUGS ATTACK 13 TIMES IN 2 WEEKS;
Castlemilk routes under siege

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 52 words


STONE-THROWING thugs have attacked buses in Castlemilk 13 times in just two
weeks.

The worst incident saw a mum rushed to Glasgow's Victoria Infirmary after being
badly cut when a bus window was shattered.

Police have vowed to get tough on the vandals responsible for the GBP2500
wrecking spree.

FULL STORY - PAGE 9

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                November 2, 2005

PRESCOTT WIFE TELLS OF 'TERROR ATTACK'

BYLINE: Alastair Taylor

LENGTH: 160 words


THE wife of Deputy PM John Prescott yesterday told a court how activists swooped
on their home

- and left her fearing for her life.

Pauline Prescott was woken at 6.15am by a policeman on her intercom who told her
to lock herself in her bedroom because there were intruders on her roof.

For 30 minutes Mrs Prescott believed she was a terrorist target. But the
invaders were actually Greenpeace demonstrators.

Security

She told Hull magistrates she was shocked by the security breach.

She said: "I said 'How is that possible? We have two armed police officers
outside. Who are they? Are they terrorists? Are they going to come crashing
through my windows?'"

Asked how she felt, she replied: "Terrified. In fear of my life."

She found out who the people were when she got a call from her husband, who was
away.

Eight Greenpeace activists deny using threatening, abusive or insulting words
and behaviour.

The case continues.


LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                November 2, 2005

Prescott's wife tells of terrorist attack fears

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 306 words


The wife of Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott yesterday told a court how she
feared for her life when Greenpeace activists she thought might be terrorists
climbed on to the roof of the couple's family home. Pauline Prescott said she
was "absolutely terrified" when a police guard told her that intruders had
scaled the walls of her house while her husband was away during the General
Election campaign.

She described how one of the armed officers outside her home woke her using an
intercom.

"I said, 'Who are they? Are they terrorists? Are they going to come crashing
through my windows?', " she told Hull Magistrates Court at the start of the
trial of eight Greenpeace activists, including Andrew Taylor from Stroud,
Gloucestershire.

The case follows an incident at the Prescott's detached home in Hull, on April
26.

The court heard how, despite two armed police officers being on duty outside the
property, a large number of protesters dressed in orange overalls and yellow
hard hats stormed the gates.

They then climbed up to the roof of the house using ladders and set up solar
panels on each of the two "turrets" at the front.

Mrs Prescott told the court she was not told the intruders were from Greenpeace
until 30 minutes after the incident began, when her husband called.

Asked how she felt at this time, she replied: "Absolutely terrified. In fear of
my life, quite frankly." Mrs Prescott told a district judge how she fetched her
husband's secretary Della Georgeson and the only other person in the house at
the time, and they stayed together, locked in the bedroom for eight hours after
the incident began at about 6.15am.

Mrs Prescott said: "I am a private person and what really did annoy me is that
these people knew that my husband was on the campaign trail." The case
continues.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                     © Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                     November 3, 2005 Thursday 3:57 AM GMT

Australian Senate rushes anti-terror changes after attack warning

LENGTH: 523 words


CANBERRA (AFX) - The Australian Senate has held a special sitting to rush
through amendments to anti-terrorism laws, a day after Prime Minister John
Howard said he had received credible reports of a possible attack.

Howard said it was urgent the amendments, which make it easier for police to
prosecute terrorist suspects, be passed because of the threat of an attack,
which experts believe targeted the southern city of Melbourne.

The changes allow police to immediately act against terrorist suspects involved
in the early stages of planning attacks, instead of forcing them to wait until
they have specific details of an imminent attack.

Howard has refused to reveal details of the alleged plot that prompted his
warning, saying only 'the concerns we have are not totally related to matters
distant to Australia,' Agence France-Presse reported.

The lack of detail has led critics of the conservative government to accuse
Howard of issuing the warning to help push through a raft of new anti-terrorism
laws that have been labelled by critics as a threat to civil liberties.

Howard dismissed the suggestion, saying he needed to immediately provide police
and intelligence services with the powers to respond to the latest threat.

But Howard said he could not disclose the plot to the Australian public without
rendering useless the intelligence it was based upon.

'You're damned if you do and damned if you don't,' he told commercial radio.
'It's the eternal dilemma of somebody in my position.'

Clive Williams, a former Australian intelligence official who now lectures on
terrorism at the Australian National University, said his sources told him the
plot involved an attack on Melbourne, Australia's second-largest city.

Williams said he understood it involved three suspects in Sydney and Melbourne,
one of whom had links to Pakistani militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba, which the
Australian government officially declared a terrorist organisation in November
2003.

He said the suspects were believed to have filmed potential targets in Melbourne
and their actions had led to three raids in Sydney in June this year.

'At this stage, as I understand it, the activity is largely in the very early
planning stages. It's two persons in Sydney talking to others in Melbourne about
potential targets,' Williams told Channel Nine.

'One of the persons apparently was identified by an American informant as having
attended a LET, a Lashkar-e-Taiba, camp in Pakistan, and they've been talking to
others in Melbourne apparently about what sort of targets they could attack.

'So it's sort of very early stages and that's why the government wants to change
the law in the way it does.'

Williams said the government and intelligence were erring on the side of caution
by publicly acting on the threat.

'It's now compromised the operation and means that it will probably be very
difficult to get a conviction,' he said.

'The alternative of course was to allow it to go through to the point where
there was specificity as to time and place, but then there's the danger of it
getting closer to fruition, so maybe the government didn't want to take that
chance.'

ns/mfc/jah/dk

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 03, 2005, Thursday

UK 'cannot rule out nuclear attack by terrorists'

BYLINE: By Joshua Rozenberg Legal Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 006

LENGTH: 242 words

THE suicide bombings in London on July 7 were not the worst attacks that we
could expect in Britain, according to the former head of MI6.

Sir Richard Dearlove, who retired last year as head of the Secret Intelligence
Service, said chemical, biological and genetic terrorism was in prospect and a
nuclear attack could not be ruled out. Acknowledging that the July bombings had
been "very lethal", he said they did not amount to a "strategic terrorist
event".

Sir Richard, who was taking part in a debate on terrorism arranged by the City
law firm Ashurst, said the July attacks "bore the characteristic of a locally
planned and carried-out event". However we probably had to conclude that "the
clock is running on some much more dreadful events that could occur".

In the medium to long term, terrorists would have access through the internet to
"some quite frightening dual-use technologies," he said.

These had not yet been used in the context of terrorism, but Sir Richard thought
that they would probably eventually be used. "There is no question that bits of
al-Qa'eda would have been extremely interested in biological weapons technology,
chemical weapons technology, radiological devices and, ultimately, nuclear
devices."

Sir Richard expressed "some sympathy" for the Government's approach to fighting
terrorism through legislation, adding that there was "extensive complacency" in
Britain about the nature of the terrorist threat.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                November 3, 2005

A DISASTER scenario was created in Manchester's G-Mex centre to show how the
fire service would deal with a freak hurricane or terrorist attack.

BYLINE: by TOM EDWARDS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 228 words


A DISASTER scenario was created in Manchester's G-Mex centre to show how the
fire service would deal with a freak hurricane or terrorist attack.

Situations like September 11, or Hurricane Katrina, mean Greater Manchester Fire
and Rescue Service must be fully prepared for similar, terrible events happening
here. "Disaster City" was a staged atrocity that simulated how the services
would respond quickly to help save lives.

The scenario, at the annual Fire Conference, showed Manchester reduced to a pile
of rubble after bombing. Fire crews and emergency response teams demonstrated
how they would test the area for contamination, wearing special protection suits
to keep them safe. An incident command team used dogs to locate 'bodies'.  The
operation was filmed and beamed back to a central command, where it was analysed
and any advice decided upon. A "smart board" was used to locate noises the team
could not pick up, before access holes were drilled through the rubble.

Manchester operations commander Pete Stevenson said: "Many people don't realise
how advanced we are in dealing with big disasters, but we are making huge
strides." Kelvin Cochran, chief fire officer of Louisiana, said: "The American
people saw what happened on 7/7 during the London bombings when you dealt so
effectively with that. We can all learn from each other."

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SEARCH . . . dogs were used to find 'bodies'; TROUBLE IN THE RUBBLE . .
. emergency services at the G-Mex Pictures: HOWARD WALKER; EXPERT . . . Carolyn
Mellor

                     Copyright 2005 Manchester Evening News

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            November 4, 2005, Friday

LEADING ARTICLE: ANTI-TERROR LEGISLATION; THERE IS NO EXCUSE FOR THIS ATTACK ON
CIVIL LIBERTIES

SECTION: First Edition; LEADER; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 631 words


David Blunkett's resignation this week overshadowed the Commons rebellion over
the Government's Anti-Terrorism Bill on the same day. But the rejection of this
legislation could prove just as significant an event in the history of this
government as Mr Blunkett's second departure from high office.

The Government won a division on the creation of a new offence of 'glorifying'
terrorism by one solitary vote. Labour's 66 majority all but evaporated. It is a
sign of the times that John Denham, the former chairman of the Commons Home
Affairs Select Committee, led the charge against this new offence. This robust
stance by one of Mr Blair's former allies in defence of civil liberties makes
the absence of two Liberal Democrat MPs, Vincent Cable and Alan Beith, from
Wednesday's debate all the more reprehensible. Protecting civil liberties is
supposed to be the raison d'etre of the Liberal Democrats. Had these two MPs
voted, the Government might have been defeated. If, as has been suggested, Mr
Cable has aspirations to lead his party, he will need to raise his game. Also
notable by his absence was the Respect MP George Galloway. One might have
expected this avowed critic of Tony Blair to have relished inflicting a defeat
on the Government.

But in any case, this near miss was enough to prompt the Government to retreat
over its proposed 90-day detention period for terror suspects. There is now talk
of a compromise. The Home Secretary, Charles Clarke, has promised to present
revised proposals to the Commons next week. One proposal is to allow the police
to hold suspects for just 28 days. But even that is too long. The fact that
suspects can presently be held for two weeks without charge in Britain is
already exceptional in Europe. Any extension of this will effectively create
internment. The effect of this will be the alienation of communities and an
increase in support for fanaticism. The great danger is that whatever is settled
upon as the maximum detention period will, in fact, become the standard. What
incentive will the police have to release someone before they are legally
obliged to?

Mr Clarke has been trying to win support for his Bill by arguing that these new
powers will only be used 'in a tiny number of cases'. This is not comforting.
Parliament has a duty to scrutinise each piece of legislation purely on its
merits. MPs cannot be expected to accept guarantees that new powers will be used
responsibly. Even if they do trust the Government of the day, a future
administration might not be so responsible.

It is heartening to see that the Commons has realised the folly of outlawing the
'glorification' of terrorism. This part of the Anti-Terrorism Bill is badly
drafted, illiberal nonsense. It turns out that it would affect anyone who
advocates violent resistance to despotic regimes around the world. It could even
be retrospective, criminalising " in theory" someone who had expressed support
for the actions of the African National Congress during apartheid.

In the end, the Bill " minus the glorification clause and with a reduced
detention time " may get past the Commons with Tory support. But this would be
very damaging politically for the Prime Minister. And it is, in any case,
unlikely to get past the House of Lords.

We must accept Mr Blair and Mr Clarke at their word when they claim to have been
persuaded by the police and the security services about the need for these new
laws. But that does not make these restrictions on our civil liberties
justified. Nor does it mean that the security forces are necessarily right. The
new powers created by this Bill are likely to be " at best " an irrelevance to
our society's efforts to defeat terrorism. At worst, they could make the job
much more difficult.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           November 5, 2005, Saturday

PLOT TO BOMB BRITAIN;
 TWO ACCUSED OF PLANNING TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: BY NEVILLE DEAN

SECTION: North Wales Edition; NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 352 words


TWO men appeared in court yesterday accused of plotting to mount a terrorist
bomb attack on Britain.

One of the men is accused of possessing a video showing how to make a car bomb,
while the other allegedly had a recipe for rocket propellants and guidance on
causing an explosion.

A DVD entitled "Martyrdom Operations Vest" was also allegedly possessed by one
of the men.

The pair, who are both 22, appeared before Bow Street Magistrates Court in
central London, charged with a series of offences, including conspiracy to cause
an explosion and conspiracy to murder.

Waseem Mughal and Younis Tsouli are also accused of conspiracy to cause a public
nuisance and of a range of terrorism offences.

They were arrested by anti-terror police last month and have been held at
Paddington Green Police Station for two weeks.

They appeared at Bow Street with a third man, 19-year-old Tariq Al-Daour, who is
also accused of offences under the Terrorism Act. All three were remanded in
custody to appear before the Old Bailey on November 18Mughal is charged with 10
offences, Tsouli eight and Al-Daour is charged with three offences. One of the
charges against Mughal, who was arrested on October 21, alleges that he had, in
his bedroom, a DVD entitled "Martyrdom Operations Vest".

Another alleges that he had a piece of paper with the words "welcome to jihad"
written on it, while a further charge alleges that he possessed a piece of paper
containing the words "hospital attack".

All appeared before the court wearing white sweatshirts and grey jogging
bottoms. Tsouli had shoulder length black hair and was unshaven, while Mughal
and Al-Daour both had beards.

The three spoke only to confirm their names and dates of birth.

None of the men is thought to be British-born. All three are charged with
conspiracy to obtain money by deception. They are alleged to have conspired to
dishonestly obtain property from other people's credit cards.

There was no application for bail. Judge Daphne Wickham said case was being sent
to the Central Criminal Court for hearing on November 18

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                November 5, 2005

Firm protects MPs from Thames terror attacks

BYLINE: David Owen

SECTION: News; Business; People; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 458 words


It's been a topic of conversation among MPs for the past couple of weeks - why
nine yellow flashing buoys have been bobbing in the Thames. Today, Bosworth MP
David Tredinnick proudly revealed they were the handiwork of a landlocked family
firm from Barwell who are helping the Government in the fight against terrorism.

Vessel Traffic Management Systems (VTMS) has built the buoys as part of a
£45,000 contract to set up a "demarcation zone" around the banks of the Thames
to stop boats getting near the Houses of Parliament.

Mr Tredinnick visited the firm yesterday to praise its work.

He said: "It's an incredible story for a local firm. Since Parliament re-opened,
everyone has been asking about the buoys, which are quite striking and each have
a St Andrew's cross on them.

"You can see them from the terrace of the Commons and I'm proud to tell everyone
they are the work of a firm in my constituency." Scotsman Jack Hamilton set up
the company, which has yards in Burntisland, near Edinburgh, and Newport, Wales,
with his son Billy, in 2002.

Despite supplying and installing navigation equipment at major harbours across
the British Isles, he describes the contract to secure the demarcation zone
outside the Houses of Parliament as his coup de grace.

"We were contacted by Government security officials in May about supplying
specially-designed buoys to stop traffic on the Thames from approaching moorings
by the Houses of Parliament," said the 67-year-old.

"After the July 7 terrorist attacks, we were contacted again as the Government
brought forward new security arrangements.

"Everyone says Leicestershire is an odd location for our business, but my
argument is you couldn't be closer to each coast.

"It's by no means our biggest contract," said Jack, "but it is certainly our
most prestigious. We were all surprised when we received the order on an HM
Government-headed fax, complete with portcullis." Sales manager Rick Lovell, 58,
one of the firm's 10 employees, said: "It is a huge privilege and something we
are all proud of." Supervising their installation by the Thames River Authority
three and a half weeks ago was the firm's chief engineer, Jez Faulks.

"I know my name's spelt differently," said the 31-year-old. "But when I told the
lads down there who I was, they said, 'We're not sure we should let you anywhere
near Parliament with a name like that'.

"I got a bit of ribbing but I felt it was an honour to be involved with securing
the nation's seat of power in the centre of our capital." A spokeswoman for the
Sergeant-At-Arms, who is responsible for security arrangements at the Palace of
Westminster, said: "We don't usually speak on issues of security measures like
this."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                       © Copyright 2005 Leicester Mercury

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Cheshire

                                November 5, 2005

Dogs mauled my pony to death in terror attack

BYLINE: Stephen Bailey

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 221 words

DATELINE: Cheshire; Warrington


SICK owners watched as their dogs attacked and killed an elderly pony.

The animals mauled 35-year-old Sebastian to death at Bold Heath Equestrian
Centre last Tuesday night.

The animals estimated by a vet to be at least the size of Dobermans were
accompanied by at least two people.

Distraught owner Janet Baker said: "He was fit for an old horse but he wouldn't
have been able to run away and when he went down he wouldn't have been able to
fight."

She could not bring herself to describe the scene she found the following
morning and could only say: "The injuries were terrible."

Janet had to shield the pony's body from children who had arrived for lessons.

The 53-year-old said: "It was absolutely awful. Sebastian was lovely he was
everybody's friend. He had taught hundreds of people to ride."

The brown and white coloured Shetland cross was only 11 hands high. Two other
horses in the field were unharmed.

Janet who lives at the centre on Warrington Road added: "There were human foot
prints with the dogs you could see where they had gone down the path.

"There were at least two big dogs and a smaller terrier type.

"It looked like two people but there might have been more."

Anyone with any information about the attack can call the RSPCA cruelty hotline
on 0870 5555 999.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                 © Copyright 2005 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           November 5, 2005, Saturday

YOUNG MEN CHARGED WITH PLOTTING TERRORIST BOMB ATTACK AND CONSPIRACY

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 160 words


Two men appeared in court yesterday accused of plotting to mount a terrorist
bomb attack on Britain.

One of the men is accused of possessing a video showing how to make a car bomb,
while the other allegedly had a recipe for rocket propellants and guidance on
causing an explosion. A DVD, Martyrdom Operations Vest, was also allegedly
possessed by one of the men.

The pair, both 22, appeared before Bow Street Magistrates' Court, London,
charged with a series of offences, including conspiracy to cause an explosion
and conspiracy to murder.

Waseem Mughal and Younis Tsouli are also accused of conspiracy to cause a public
nuisance and a range of terrorism offences.

They were arrested by anti-terror police last month.

They appeared at Bow Street yesterday with 19-year-old Tariq Al-Daour, who is
also accused of offences under the Terrorism Act.

All three were remanded in custody to appear before the Old Bailey on November
18.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                                November 6, 2005
                                U.K. 1st Edition

PIRATES AHOY!;
Cruise Brits tell of terror attack

BYLINE: by EMMA BAMFORD

SECTION: NEWS; 13

LENGTH: 542 words


THIS is the terrifying moment a cruise ship carrying British holidaymakers came
under fire from a gang of bazookatoting pirates.

Blood-thirsty raiders attacked the Seabourn Spirit yesterday 100 miles off the
coast of Somalia.

Amazingly one passenger captured the attack on camera in these amazing pictures
shown on Sky News.

Startled passengers, including 18 Brits, were woken at 5.30am by the sound of
gunfire as the pirates sped alongside in two 25foot-long rigid inflatable boats.

One rocket ripped through the side of the 134-yard-long, 10,000ton ship and
exploded in a cabin where two people were in bed.

Passenger Norman Fisher, 55, a solicitor from Hampstead Garden Suburb, north
London, said:

"They were not hurt but you can imagine what it would have been like if they had
been standing up because their cabin was badly damaged.

"At first I didn't know what was going on.

"But when I saw the rocket launcher I started getting a bit scared.

"The captain didn't sound the usual alarm because he was worried that people
would run up on the deck thinking it was a fire, and that would have been the
worst place to be.

"Instead he made an announcement saying, 'Stay inside, stay inside. We are under
attack'.

"Most people were wearing dressing gowns and were quite bleary-eyed.

"It was a very surreal experience - not the kind of thing you expect on a
cruise."

Fellow passenger Mike Rogers, from Vancouver, Canada, said: "We were after
adventure, but this was a little more than we were looking for."

Hero captain Sven Erik Pedersen tried to ram one of the inflatables in a bid to
capsize it but the boat was too small and too fast to catch.

Eventually the crew repelled the attackers using an ear-splitting electric noise
grenade.

One of the crew was injured by flying debris but the other 301 people on board
the liner were unhurt.

David Dingle, a spokesman for Miami-based Seabourn Cruises, said: "The captain
and crew did a fantastic job."

The liner was heading for Mombasa in Kenya after setting off from Alexandria in
Egypt on a 16-day cruise.

It has cancelled its stop in Mombasa and will end the cruise in the Seychelles
tomorrow.

The ship, which offers the height of luxury with huge suites, marble bathrooms
and more than one crew member to each passenger, was off east Africa in an area
of the Indian Ocean notorious for piracy.

Since March, there have been 27 attacks - two of them on food-aid ships were
successful - and Somalia has called for international help to stop the strikes.

Piracy, which costs GBP 15billion a year, tripled between 1993 and 2003 but
raids had dropped off recently.

Bandits are often after cash held in a ship's safe and the personal belongings
of those on board.

They use hi-tech equipment like mobile phones and devices for eavesdropping on
satellite communication networks to pinpoint a ship's location.

When they strike they sometimes force the crew off a ship, sail it to the
nearest port and respray it.

The raids are often violent with crews tied up and even shot.

The International Maritime Bureau says that pirates murdered 30 crew members
last year.

Hotspots are waters around south-east Asia and Africa, the Red Sea, south and
central America and the Caribbean.

Indonesian waters are hit worst with 93 incidents reported in 2004.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CRUEL SEA: Ringed is Somalia and the area of the Indian Ocean where
pirates have become such a problem that the Government has called for help
RAIDING PARTY : One of the pirates can clearly be seen carrying a bazooka over
his shoulder Picture: SKY NEWS
UNDER SEIGE: The 10,000-ton Seabourn Spirit was attacked by bazooka-wielding
pirates

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                            November 6, 2005, Sunday

BATTLE ROYAL;
 SPUD MISSILES: HARRY WILL FACE MASHING IN TERRORIST TATTIE ATTACK

BYLINE: By Mike Merritt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 307 words


PRINCE Harry is to be pelted with potatoes in a bizarre anti-terrorist training
exercise.

Officer Cadet Wales will be pelted by a mob of 100 tough Gurkha soldiers armed
with rock-hard King Edward tatties.

The spud missiles are used to simulate rocks in the counter insurgency and
peacekeeping exercise at Sandhurst Military Academy, Surrey.

Operation Broadsword will last 10 days and take place at a secret location in
the new year.

And more experienced officers have warned the prince and his 30-strong platoon
they face a real mashing.

Last night, Sandhurst spokesman Lt Col Roy Parkinson said: 'If they don't keep
their shields up they can end up with some nasty bruises.

'The potatoes are thrown with a lot of force.'We are simulating a real situation
that troops have to deal with regularly in Iraq, Bosnia and Afghanistan.

'It is a real test of the cadets' nerve and strength of character. Spectators
who have seen the exercise can't believe how frightening it is.'

A Sandhurst insider added: 'Everyone has been joking about Harry insisting on
King Edward potatoes being used - but people who have been through it will tell
him that it is no laughing matter.'

Harry will also take part in a second major exercise before he graduates in
April. The three-week test will include all he has learned - from total war to
peacekeeping - and will take place abroad, possibly Canada, Cyprus or France.

Harry hopes to join an infantry regiment after his officer training and it is
believed he is being considered for promotion to sergeant or corporal.

Lt Col Parkinson added: 'The prince is doing very well. We treat him like any
other officer cadet and the same will go for his brother.'

William joins Sandhurst for his first 14-week term on January 8 - a day before
Harry starts his last term.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sunday Herald

                                November 6, 2005

Passengers relive terror as pirates attack liner;
GBP400-a-day cruise ship re-routes after repelling grenade assault off notorious
East African coast

BYLINE: By Judith Duffy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 751 words



HIGHLIGHT: The luxury liner Seabourn Spirit, whose passengers and crew watched
as pirates attacked the ship

Photograph: Seabourn/PA


PASSENGERS and crew on a luxury cruise liner which came under attack from
pirates yesterday told how they watched helplessly as grenades were fired at
them.

Hundreds of tourists - including 18 from the UK - were on board the Seabourn
Spirit when the incident took place 100 miles off Somalia in Africa.

The crew of the cruise liner successfully managed to repel the early-morning
attack without returning fire.

The Bahamas-registered ship was carrying 302 passengers and crew at the time,
but the only casualty was one crew member who suffered minor injuries from
flying debris. The vessel escaped with minor damage.

Staff on the ship used an onboard loud acoustic bang to scare the pirates, who
finally sped off without managing to board the liner.

Solicitor Norman Fisher, 55, from north London, told how he was alerted to the
attack by the sound of a "crack" at 5.50am.

"I looked out of the window and saw a small boat with about five people in it
about 20 yards away, " he said. "Two of them had rifles and one had some kind of
rocket launcher."

Fisher said the captain tried to ram one of the boats in an attempt to capsize
it and stop the pirates getting aboard.

Edith Laird, of Seattle, was on board the ship with her daughter and a friend.
She said: "My daughter saw the pirates out of our window. At least three
rocket-propelled grenades hit the ship, one in a stateroom four doors down from
our cabin."

Richard Fuller, a barman on the liner, said: "We heard a big bang and that was
one of the grenades hitting one of the suites on deck six. We heard a few shots
fired but we weren't allowed to go out on deck for obvious reasons. It was a
very, very terrifying experience.

"A lot of the guests are a bit nervous still. The guests who were in the suite
that was hit are terrified, but apart from that we are all OK."

The ship's owners, Seabourn Cruises, stated that the vessel, which escaped with
minor damage, had only been hit by small arms fire.

The first many passengers knew of the raid was when captain Sven Erik Pedersen
came on the PA and said: "Stay inside, we're under attack."

Passengers were ordered to go to the restaurant as the ship came under fire from
grenades and guns from two 25ft rigid inflatable boats.

Fisher described the atmosphere inside the restaurant, as "a little tense", but
said that none of the passengers or crew had panicked.

He said: "The captain came in at about 6.30am and explained what was going on
and said he was reasonably confident we had lost them. Of course he got a
massive round of applause."

He added: "I suppose I had a little bit of adrenalin because I was trying to
take photographs. When I looked at the photos I realised the guy was loading the
rocket launcher right in front of me, which I hadn't seen with the naked eye.

"It was all a very surreal experience - not the kind of thing you expect on a
cruise."

David Dingle, a spokesman for the Miami-based company Seabourn Cruises, owned by
US cruise giant Carnival, said they had no reason to believe it was a terrorist
attack and that all the evidence pointed to pirates. He said: "The ship's crew
immediately initiated a trained response and as a result of protective and
evasive measures taken, the occupants of the small craft were unable to gain
access to the ship.

"The passengers were somewhat shocked because it happened at 5.30am in the
morning and they were woken.

"The passengers were mustered in a public room, told what was going on and
reassured that we were fighting off the attack. No passengers were injured."

He added: "We are extremely pleased that all the measures worked. The captain
and crew did a fantastic job."

The drama happened in an area notorious for pirate activity, leading to warnings
to stay away from that part of the coast where bandits board ships and demand
ransoms.

Somalia has had no recognised government since 1991 and at least 23 hijackings
or attempted raids have been attempted off the East African country's shore this
year, according to the International Maritime Bureau.

The liner was en-route to Mombasa in Kenya on a 16-day trip out of Alexandria in
Egypt, but it has now cancelled its stop there. The cruise will end in the
Seychelles on Monday.

The 10,000-ton Seabourn Spirit offers the height of luxury, with huge suites,
marble bathrooms and more than one crew member to each passenger on board.

Cruises cost from GBP6100 for a 16-day sail to GBP18,270 for an epic 46-day
voyage. Most of the passengers on board are believed to be American.

judith. duffy@sundayherald. com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNHER


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 7, 2005 Monday

French paper reports averted terror attacks in Europe

LENGTH: 1006 words


Text of report by Atmane Tazaghart and Roland Jacquard entitled "France in the
line of fire", published by Le Figaro (Magazine supplement) on 5 November; names
and subheadings as published

Is there a terrorist threat in France? Nicolas Sarkozy's assessment is "level
four on a scale of five!" This was on 26 September 2005, the day after an
Islamist cell headed by Algerian activist Safe Bourada was dismantled in the
Paris region.

French specialists share this opinion. They feel that not since the wave of
terrorist attacks in the summer of 1995 has the danger been as great as it is
now. It is primarily the alliance sealed in December 2004 between the head of
the Islamist guerrilla leader in Iraq, Abu Mus'ab al-Zarqawi, and the emir of
the Algerian Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat [GSPC], Abdelmalek Droukdel
[name as published], that arouses this concern.

In an audio message that was broadcast last May, Al-Zarqawi qualified Jacques
Chirac as "the crusaders' dog". In mid-September, in a similar message, Droukdel
presented France as "the mujahidin's number one enemy".

At the same time, several pieces of information revealed that Ayman al-Zawahiri,
Al-Qa'idah's second in command, had just given Al-Zarqawi the leadership of
Europe's jihadist networks.

Sarin gas attack!

In this unsettling context, an astounding piece of information reached American
intelligence in Iraq: Al-Zarqawi had allegedly ordered his North African
lieutenant, Abu Mohammed al-Tounsi [name as published], to carry out a sarin gas
attack in the heart of a European capital!

The source of this information is a former chemical engineer in Saddam Husayn's
army. He joined Al-Zarqawi's organization under the nom de guerre of Abu al-Hajr
after the Ba'th regime fell. He was arrested near Baghdad during a routine
check. He revealed to the Americans that Al-Zarqawi had ordered him in early
summer to provide accelerated training to a group of European kamikazes - or
those who had documents allowing them to spend time in the European Union - on
how to handle chemical gases.

After these candidates for martyrdom received their training, they were
allegedly taken under the wing of Abu Mohammed al-Tounsi, who was responsible
for getting them to Europe.

European intelligence services were alerted by the Americans and they got
immediately on Al-Tounsi's trail. After three weeks of tracking and intense
investigations carried out jointly in Baghdad, Algiers, Amman, Beirut and
Damascus, he was finally intercepted and killed on the Iraqi-Syrian border.

Documents found on his computer hard drive confirmed the fears, that a chemical
attack, the first of its kind in the West, was to take place... [ellipsis as
published] in France!

Along the same model as the GIA [Armed Islamic Groups]

Three other plans for terrorist attacks were discovered at the end of September
when Safe Bourada's Paris cell was rounded up. They targeted the Paris metro,
DST [Territorial Surveillance Directorate] headquarters and Orly airport.

The confessions of Algerian Islamist Mohammed Benyamina, who was arrested in
Oran a few days before Bourada's group was dismantled, revealed that this Paris
cell was merely a component of a much bigger network; the heir to the GIA
networks that had swept through Europe in the mid-90s. This network was charged
with striking three European countries simultaneously on the eve of the 29
September referendum in Algeria.

A second cell was thus rounded up in Italy. It was getting ready to carry out an
attack on Rome's underground, similar to the one carried out in London. A third
group was arrested in Brussels. It was preparing suicide attacks on NATO
headquarters and the European Commission.

Moreover, two other attacks had been allegedly planned in Paris: A bomb
explosion was just barely avoided in October. The target was a government
cafeteria where top Ministry of the Interior officials eat.

A Moroccan network

A group of Moroccan activists was rounded up at the same time. It was preparing
to assassinate a former Moroccan minister of the interior, the Islamists' sworn
enemy, who is living in Paris.

The investigation that led to this group's arrest began in July following the
seizure of a record amount of explosives in the Paris region. An investigation
by the Central Directorate of the Judicial Police and the DST established that
this batch of more than 100 kilos of explosives, which had come from the
Balkans, was destined for a network of Franco-Moroccan Islamists that was
planning terrorist attacks in France. This network was allegedly discovered
thanks to information obtained in Saudi Arabia. Moroccan activist Younes
al-Hiyari was killed during a raid on an Islamist hideout in Riyadh. Plans for
attacks and videos of potential terrorist targets in France were found in his
computer.

French targets abroad

French archeological researchers working in southern Afghanistan were the target
of attack plans in August. They were placed under the protection of French
special forces based in Spin Boldak, halfway between Kandahar and Quetta. Since
they could not get close to the researchers or attack them directly, an
Al-Qa'idah group mined the fields where they were going to carry out their
research. The vigilance of General Rondot's "men in the shadows", who are on the
lookout for any suspicious movement in the region, made it possible to avoid a
catastrophe.

Even the overseas territories are threatened

In addition, information obtained by American intelligence in Iraq made it
possible to arrest a Franco-North African Islamist network that had just arrived
on the island of Reunion to carry out attacks on public buildings.

These activists had been indoctrinated in metropolitan France at the end of the
1990s with the Pakistani (non-jihadist) Tabligh movement. They allegedly
converted to the Salafist-jihadist ideology of the Al-Qa'idah movement at a
later date.

The development of international vigilance is justified by these threats on all
fronts.

Source: Le Figaro (Magazine Supplement), Paris, in French 05 Nov 2005

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 7, 2005 Monday

Australian police say foil terror attack as arrests made

LENGTH: 162 words


Text of report by Radio Australia text website on 7 November

There have been a series of counter-terrorism raids in the Australian states of
Victoria and New South Wales.

Police say men alleged to be planning a terrorist attack in Australia have been
arrested.

The New South Wales police commissioner, Ken Moroney, says more than 400 police
officers have been involved in the raids of 15 homes in south-western Sydney.

"Six male persons have been arrested," he said.

"They're currently being interviewed by police and my expectation is that they
will appear in Sydney courts this morning."

The ABC has been told that nine arrests have been made during raids in the
southern city of Melbourne.

Commissioner Moroney says a terrorist attack has been foiled.

"I am satisfied that we have disrupted what I would regard as the final stages
of a terrorist attack or the launch of a terrorist attack in Australia," he
said.

Source: Radio Australia text website, Melbourne, in English 7 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                November 7, 2005

Comment & Debate: A battle between liberty and authoritarianism: Basic freedoms
are under attack in the name of the fight against terror. We should heed
Churchill's wartime warnings

BYLINE: Charles Kennedy

SECTION: Guardian Comment and Debate Pages, Pg. 32

LENGTH: 922 words


A crucial division of opinion is opening up between the party of civil liberties
and the party of authoritarianism. Liberal Democrats are on the side of civil
liberties. Labour - which had a proud libertarian tradition when Roy Jenkins was
home secretary in the 1960s - is now the party of authoritarianism. The prime
minister embodies a shift that is becoming a defining issue of our politics.

We take for granted our freedom in this country, but at our peril. Walter
Wolfgang, who heckled the foreign secretary at the Labour party conference, was
ejected and detained under terrorism legislation. Had he said "nonsense" twice,
he could have been charged under the Protection from Harassment Act.

Our judicial system is based on certain presumptions - the first of which is the
presumption of innocence. The onus is always on the prosecution, not the
defence, to prove its case. Second, anyone accused of a crime has the right to
be judged by his fellow citizens on a jury. Third, no one should be detained for
more than a very short period without being charged. And fourth, judges are
there to interpret the law independent of interference from the executive.

These are safeguards that have developed over hundreds of years in order to
secure our individual rights. It is customary, in a democracy, to assume our
elected leader will uphold them together with the independence of the judiciary.
Yet Tony Blair - a lawyer - has attacked them all. He has questioned the
principle of innocent until proved guilty, promoted the concept of summary
justice and now wants to lock people up without charge. His attitude appears to
be that the judiciary should be an arm of government - there to do his bidding.

Meanwhile, his ministers attack judges whose decisions they do not like. I am
confident that they will resist such intimidation. But the day that judges start
to act on the instructions of politicians is the day when we cross the line from
a free society to a totalitarian state. This authoritarianism is wrong-headed
and dangerous.

The current legislation going through parliament - ID cards, religious hatred
and the anti-terrorism bills - highlight how Blair, faced with a threat,
instinctively seeks to curtail rather than preserve our freedom. He says the
anti- terrorism legislation is a vital response to "the new terror threat".
Certainly, the July 7 bombings highlighted some legal loopholes that need to be
plugged. That is why we are supporting the proposed new offence of acts
preparatory to terrorism. But the prime minister doesn't stop there. He is
trying to push through imprisonment without trial for 90 days and an offence of
"glorification".

Neither of these is necessary. Once the other new offences are in place, the
police will have sufficient powers to hold suspects. And what on earth is the
preposterous offence of "glorification" as a means of incitement? How do you
define it? It's a gratuitous attack on our freedom of speech.

The prime minister argues that the threat of global terrorism is justification
enough. But the crystal ball is an unreliable guide and he would be wise to
consider historical precedent instead. In 1940, when a German invasion was
imminent, parliament did indeed introduce Regulation 18B allowing the government
to detain anyone considered to be a danger to the national interest. But those
detained appealed through the courts and when the immediate danger of invasion
was over, in 1943, we released the detainees - including Britain's fascist
leaders, such as Sir Oswald Mosley. The then prime minister, Winston Churchill,
was deeply unhappy about Regulation 18B. To detain a man at the wish of the
executive was, he said, "in the highest degree odious" and the foundation of all
totalitarian regimes.

Since then, the only peacetime attempt to introduce detention without trial has
been in Northern Ireland in 1971. It proved a ghastly failure, convincing the
Catholic population that the British government was its enemy, and was one of
the best recruiting sergeants the IRA ever had.

Our political opponents try to suggest that the Liberal Democrats' passion for
civil liberties somehow makes us "soft on terror". I totally disagree.
Certainly, we may find ourselves defending the rights of very small and
unpopular minorities - those accused of terrorist crimes, those seeking asylum,
those seeking to avoid deportation. But all of us are in a minority at one time
or another. All of us could be wrongly accused of a crime we did not commit. All
of us could express views or do things the government of the day does not like.
All of us do unpopular things or utter unpopular thoughts. And we all need the
protection which the impartial rule of law gives us.

Although some would like to turn the clock back, we live in an increasingly
diverse society, which is both multicultural and multidenominational. A diverse
society means a greater diversity of views - which is healthy and we should
welcome it. Go back to the 1950s and you might find a greater moral consensus,
but it was also a decade of stifling conformity. Of course, diversity doesn't
confer the right to maim or kill fellow citizens, but it does mean we have to
think about how we ensure that those who express unpopular views or follow
unpopular courses of action can rely on proper protection under the law. Our
tradition of balance and tolerance should not be sacrificed to al-Qaida.

Charles Kennedy is leader of the Liberal Democrats kennedyc@parliament.uk


LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                November 7, 2005
                              Correction Appended

Clarke rules out extra cash for victims of terror attacks

BYLINE: Alex Kumi

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 503 words


Charles Clarke has ruled out additional compensation payments for the victims of
terrorist attacks, rejecting calls for the government to establish a special
fund for those whose lives have been affected by such crimes.

The home secretary said people injured in terrorist attacks should be treated in
the same way as other victims of crime.

Many families of the victims of the July 7 bombings are already critical of the
government's compensation scheme, believing it to be inadequate given the
lifelong nature of some of the injuries. The home secretary's stance is opposite
to that of families campaigning for a fund for victims.

"Whether you are stabbed outside a pub or maimed by an explosion on a tube
train, it's not actually the way in which you are injured that is the key thing
- provided it's a criminal act - but the extent of the injuries," Mr Clarke told
the Daily Telegraph.

The home secretary made it clear that he wants victims of attacks to continue to
be handled by the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority.

His remarks, four months after the terror attacks in London which killed 52
people, come after complaints from the families of people killed and injured in
the bombings prompted the Home Office to conduct a review of compensation for
terror victims.

Mr Clarke has admitted that the compensation system must be speeded up and those
who have suffered serious injuries should receive more money. He has also
suggested that public donations could provide a source of extra money.

Despite admitting there is room for improvement, he insisted that the current
British compensation system was "the most generous in Europe".

Lawyers have told the Guardian that the most severely injured victims of the
July 7 attacks could be left struggling financially for the rest of their lives
because of the shortcomings of the government's criminal injuries compensation
scheme.

Some of the most badly hurt survivors have told solicitors they are concerned
about their financial future. Many face a struggle to pay bills because they
have been unable to return to work as a result of their injuries and
psychological trauma.

Some victims who lost limbs face bills of £20,000 for specialist prosthetics
which are not available on the NHS.

Under the government's criminal injuries compensation scheme, payouts range from
£1,000 to £250,000. In the most severe cases additional compensation for loss of
earnings and medical costs may be considered, but the total payout is capped at
£500,000.

Victims of the London attacks are also receiving money from the London Bombings
Relief Charitable Fund - known as the Mayor's Fund - which has raised around
£8.77m from public donations. But the fund, which is administered by the Red
Cross, has yet to pay out any substantial grants to survivors.

In September it was announced that the most seriously injured were likely to
receive £15,000, an amount which was condemned by a number of badly injured
victims.


LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 11, 2005

CORRECTION: * We said in an article headlined Clarke rules out extra cash for
victims of terror attacks, page 8, November 7 (some editions) that the London
Bombings Relief Charitable Fund had yet to pay out any substantial grants to
survivors of the July 7 London bombings. The LBRCF would like to make clear that
sums of £25,000 and £31,000 have been paid out and more grants are on the way.

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            November 7, 2005, Monday

BLAIR IS 'FACING THE POINT OF NO RETURN';
 THREAT TO TERROR VOTE DIPLOMAT ATTACKS PM

BYLINE: BY OONAGH BLACKMAN POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 492 words

HIGHLIGHT: CRISIS: Blair; CRITIC: Meyer


TONY BLAIR has been warned his authority is slipping away.

Former US ambassador Sir Christopher Meyer said the PM's recent troubles could
signal the beginning of the end for him.

He said: "Somewhere you reach the point of no return. I wouldn't be surprised if
this was it."

The damaging verdict from one of his closest advisers comes after a week from
hell for the PM.

Sir Christopher, who experienced the end of John Major's Tory premiership, said:
"It reminds me so much of those days."

Cabinet minister David Blunkett's resignation last weakened Mr Blair's grip on
power.

As did his near defeat in a parliamentary vote on creating a new offence of
glorifying terrorism in the post 7/7 Terrorism Bill.

This week he faces a humiliating defeat on creating powers to hold terror
suspects for up to 90 days.

In his memoirs Sir Christopher blames the Iraq war for making the UK a terror
target.

He said British-born terrorists were "radicalised and fuelled by what is going
on in Iraq". He added: "Don't tell me that being in Iraq has got nothing to do
with it. Of course it does."

Despite difficulties over the terror bill, a senior No10 source said last night
Mr Blair still thinks there is an outside chance he can win Wednesday's 90-day
vote in the Commons.

"We've got 48 hours to convince people. It is hard to believe all 198 Tories are
going to defy the police advice and vote against it," the source added.

"We want 90 days, we accept it may not be possible to get it but we are going to
keep trying."

Health Secretary Patricia Hewitt said yesterday: "It will be a matter of
opposition parties facing up to the responsibilities they have and that is to
secure the safety of our public, it is the first duty of government."

But that might be wishful thinking as Mr Blair faces having to compromise on
extending the current 14-day period, despite backing from the police.

Lord Falconer, the Lord Chancellor and close Blair ally, admitted one may have
to be found after the Tories signalled yesterday they would back nothing beyond
28 days.

He said: "We in the Government think 90 days is right but there is an issue
about whether it can get through the Commons."

Mr Blair yesterday accused Labour rebels of "woeful complacency" over the
protection of the Britain from terror attacks.

He said: "If we lose the vote, I will feel a sense of defeat not so much for me
but for the security of the country."

The PM's troubles have sparked calls for "regime change" next year from Labour
backbenchers.

Usually supportive Labour MPs are openly plotting in Commons tea rooms for a
swift handover to Gordon Brown next autumn.

Mr Blair also faces unrest for being too "strident" over health, education and
welfare reforms as well as anti-terror measures.

But he will tell his MPs they risk surrendering the centre ground to the
revitalised Tories if they shoot down his reform agenda.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            November 7, 2005, Monday

BLAIR IS 'FACING THE POINT OF NO RETURN';
 DIPLOMAT ATTACKS PM THREAT TO TERROR VOTE

BYLINE: BY OONAGH BLACKMAN POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 504 words

HIGHLIGHT: CRITIC: Meyer; CRISIS: Blair


TONY BLAIR has been warned his premiership may be fatally wounded.

Sir Christopher Meyer, ex-ambassador to Washington, said the PM's recent
troubles could signal the beginning of the end for him.

He said: "Somewhere you reach the point of no return. I wouldn't be surprised if
this was it."

Sir Christopher, who experienced the end of Sir John Major's Tory premiership,
said: "It reminds me so much of those days."

This week Mr Blair faces a humiliating defeat on creating powers to hold terror
suspects for up to 90 days without charge.

The damaging verdict from one of Mr Blair's closest advisers came after the PM's
grip on power was weakened by Cabinet minister David Blunkett's resignation.

Mr Blair also suffered a near defeat last week in a parliamentary vote on
creating a new offence of glorifying terrorism in the post 7/7 Terrorism Bill.

In his memoirs Sir Christopher blames the Iraq war for making the UK a terror
target.

He said British-born terrorists were "radicalised and fuelled by what is going
on in Iraq". He added: "Don't tell me that being in Iraq has got nothing to do
with it. Of course it does."

Despite difficulties over the terror bill, a senior No10 source said last night
Mr Blair still thinks there is an outside chance he can win Wednesday's 90-day
vote in the Commons.

"We've got 48 hours to convince people. It is hard to believe all 198 Tories are
going to defy the police advice and vote against it," the source added.

"We want 90 days, we accept it may not be possible to get it but we are going to
keep trying."

Health Secretary Patricia Hewitt said yesterday: "It will be a matter of
opposition parties facing up to the responsibilities they have and that is to
secure the safety of our public; it is the first duty of government."

But that might be wishful thinking as Mr Blair faces having to compromise on
extending the current 14-day period, despite backing from the police. Lord
Falconer, the Lord Chancellor and close Blair ally, admitted a deal may have to
be found after the Tories signalled yesterday they would back nothing beyond 28
days.

He said: "There's an issue about getting 90 days through the Commons. If it
can't get through, there'll need to be a compromise."

In a rare intervention Major said 90 days is "utterly and totally unacceptable
in a liberal society".

Mr Blair yesterday accused Labour rebels of "woeful complacency" over the
protection of Britain from terror attacks.

He said: "If we lose the vote, I will feel a sense of defeat not so much for me
but for the security of the country."

The PM's troubles have sparked calls for "regime change" in favour of Gordon
Brown from Labour backbenchers, but Mr Blair will warn MPs today of the threat
from the revitalised Tories if they reject his reform agenda.

- HOME Secretary Charles Clarke has rejected calls to increase compensation to
seriously injured terror attack victims above the current £500,000 cap.

Voice of the Mirror: Page 6

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 8, 2005 Tuesday

Chechen national found guilty of preparing terrorist attack in Russia's Omsk

LENGTH: 128 words


Chechen national Sultan Suleymenov was been sentenced to 3.5-year imprisonment
and a fine amounting to R50,000 (nearly 2,000 dollars) after he was found guilty
of preparing a terrorist attack in Omsk, Russian news agency ITAR-TASS reported
on 8 November.

Suleymenov was detained by the Omsk Federal Security Service Directorate, the
agency reported.

Arms, ammunitions as well as detailed maps of an Omsk entertainment centre and a
petrochemical plant were seized during a search of his flat. He was charged with
preparations for a terrorist attack.

Meanwhile, another criminal case is being investigated in which Suleymenov is
mentioned as a member of illegal armed formations in Chechnya, the agency said.

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0743 gmt 8 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 8, 2005 Tuesday

Web threat of pre-Christmas terror attack on Italy

LENGTH: 612 words


Text of report by Eugenio Bruno entitled "'Al-Qa'idah threats to Italy'"
published by Italian newspaper Il Sole-24 Ore website on 8 November

Rome: While Italy has been debating the timing and ways and means for
withdrawing its troops stationed in Iraq, a fresh threat of an imminent terror
attack against our country has arrived from the web.

A possible attack in Italy involving ground-to-air missiles or chemical weapons
has been announced by a forum frequented by Al-Qa'idah sympathizers. A message,
signed by Sayf al-Adal (from the name of one of the "Afghan Arabs" who fought
the Soviet invasion in the eighties and are believed to be very close to Usamah
Bin-Ladin), refers to "good news that, if it is God's will, will shortly be
arriving from the land of the Romans". With regard to the Al-Qa'idah leader, the
same "hand" stresses that "Shaykh Usamah Bin-Ladin is well and in a place of
safety, and we will soon be seeing him during the Christmas festivities in the
land of the Romans after the next attack in Europe, which will target Italy
first of all".

Interior Minister Giuseppe Pisanu was sceptical, calling for an "excessive
alarm" not to be raised and explaining: "It is a very brief and somewhat
ungrammatical message." "Whoever wrote it may be a jihadist web surfer who keeps
a close eye on European reports on political violence and has taken his cue from
them when composing his message." As the incumbent at the Viminale [Italian
Interior Ministry] saw it, all this "does not raise, but nor does it lessen, the
terror threat that continues to loom over Europe and Italy". "We will thus
continue to keep our security measures at a very high level," he concluded.

The talk in circles close to the intelligence services is of a message "whose
concrete foundation remains to be ascertained". Defence Minister Antonio Martino
also took a cautious line: "I do not know anything about it yet."

"I will comment when I know more," he said. However, we owe Martino the day's
main new development on the subject of Iraq. Addressing a conference organized
by the DS [Democrats of the Left], the minister came out in favour of "a gradual
withdrawal" of the Italian troops, voicing the hope that an agreement would be
reached with the opposition on the issue."

Senate Speaker Marcello Pera took a different view. After meeting Iraqi
President Jalal Talabani at Palazzo Giustiniani, Pera reasserted that there
could be no talk of an exit until "the political situation has taken on a stable
form and Iraq, in the first person and speaking in its own right, asks the
international troops to stand down".

Oak Tree [DS party logo] Secretary Piero Fassino, however, was not ruling out
the solution suggested by Martino, and he repeated the proposal for an exit
strategy timetable to be agreed with "the Iraqi authorities and the allies so as
to ensure that withdrawal takes place within an orderly framework". It was not
just the more radical wing's forces, such as [Communist] Renewal and the Green
Party, who stood in the way this time, but the Daisy Party as well, which, in
the person of coordinator Dario Franceschini, demanded "no change to the
mutually agreed line", meaning "withdrawal at once".

It fell to the leader of the coalition, Romano Prodi [former prime minister, EU
Commission president] to strike a compromise. He announced yesterday, in a
Newsweek International interview: "If I win [the spring 2006 parliamentary
election], we will decide an agenda for withdrawing our troops," the Professor
[nickname for Prodi] emphasized, explaining: "I will definitely not make sudden
moves like Spain has done."

Source: Il Sole-24 Ore website, Milan, in Italian 8 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Construction News

                            November 8, 2005 Tuesday

Australia police foil 'catastrophic' terror attack

BYLINE: cn lisa

SECTION: ARTICLE; News

LENGTH: 70  words



HIGHLIGHT: Police arrested 17 terror suspects in Australia's two biggest cities
today in raids they said foiled a plot to carry out a catastrophic terror
attack.


A radical Muslim cleric known for praising Osama bin Laden was charged with
masterminding the plot.    One suspect was in a critical condition after being
shot in the neck during a gunfight with police, said police Commissioner Graeme
Morgan. An officer was hit, receiving a minor graze to the hand.    A bomb squad
robot examined a backpack the suspect was wearing when he was shot and found a
handgun, Morgan said.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Construction News


                            Copyright 2005 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           November 8, 2005, Tuesday

GRAN HURT IN TERROR NIGHT OF ATTACKS;
 ASSAULTS: VICTIMS OF SPATE OF INCIDENTS ARE TEENAGERS AND PENSIONER

BYLINE: BY BEN GRIFFIN CRIME REPORTER

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 339 words

HIGHLIGHT: TERRIFIED...Jean Treanor was the victim of an attack in her own home.
Picture: Joe Bailey D29098_1


TERRIFIED grandmother Jean Treanor was left with a black eye and a broken window
following two attacks on her home which have left her living in fear of her
life.

Mrs Treanor, aged 67, whose health is so poor that she has to have daily
treatment for a blood disorder, was woken by the sound of smashing glass at 5am
on Saturday when a For Sale placard was pushed through her front window.

As she rushed downstairs a brick was also thrown through the window of her home
in Radford, Coventry.

Mrs Treanor, a mother of six, said: "I saw two youths running to a car and when
I looked in my front room there was a For Sale sign pushed through from a garden
up the road.

"They'd broken the wall dragging it over and then thrown a brick at the house.

"I think this must have something to do with a row one of my family is involved
in - but I've done nothing."

Police arrived to take details and workers from her landlords, Whitefriars
Housing, boarded up the window.

But Mrs Treanor, whose 36-year-old son was out when the thugs came, was clearing
up the glass when they came back.

She said: "They must have been watching the house because as soon as the
Whitefriars men left my door was pushed open and there was a boy standing there
in a grey anorak with a hood pulled over his face.

"He gave me a punch and I tried to push him out and lock the door...but then
another youth came running down my stairs. I don't know how he got in - unless
it was when the window was being replaced.

"I tried to stop him and he punched me right in the face. I'm so frightened of
being here now - but this is my home!"

Sgt Lee Burns, of Little Park Street police station, said: "We are treating this
matter very seriously and are progressing a number of lines of inquiry."

n HOW YOU CAN HELP: Police said if anyone had any information about the attack
to call officers on 0845 1135000 or ring the confidential Crimestoppers number,
where cash can be paid for information leading to an arrest, on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2005 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                November 8, 2005

BLAIR'S TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: by MACER HALL, Political Editor

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 183 words


ANGRY Tony Blair yesterday accused opponents of his antiterror crackdown of
handing victory to the suicide bombers.

In a desperate attempt to shore up his flagging authority, the Prime Minister
launched a blistering attack on the Tories, LibDems and rebel Labour MPs aiming
to wreck his proposed extratough new police powers.

Mr Blair has been determined to change the law so suspects can be held for 90
days without charge - but last night Home Secretary Charles Clarke accepted the
plan will not get through the Commons.

Mr Clarke was ready to slash the maximum to 42 days in a vote tomorrow.

He said of the 90-day plan: "I regretfully accept that, despite support from
about two-thirds of the British people, there is no consensus in Parliament."

In a meeting with Labour MPs earlier, Mr Blair pleaded with rebels not to wreck
his plans.

The Tories will support suspects being locked up for 28 days without charge -
double the current 14-day maximum.

Last night Mr Blair hosted a reception for emergency service personnel who dealt
with the 7/7 London bombings.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                November 8, 2005

Australia foils 'catastrophic' terrorist chemical attack: 17 arrested in raids
in Sydney and Melbourne: Railway stations thought to be likely target

BYLINE: Bernard O'Riordan, Sydney

SECTION: Guardian International Pages, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 698 words


Australian authorities believe they have foiled a major terrorist attack after
arresting 17 people in overnight raids on homes in the country's two biggest
cities, Sydney and Melbourne.

The arrests come less than a week after Prime Minister John Howard said he had
received intelligence about a "terrorist threat" to Australia.

Nine were arrested in Melbourne, including Abu Bakr, a radical cleric who has
praised Osama bin Laden, while eight were held in Sydney in raids that began at
2.30am. At least 400 officers, combining federal agents and state police in New
South Wales and Victoria, took part. The suspects had allegedly stockpiled
material for a chemical attack, possibly on a railway station in either Sydney
or Melbourne.

Australia's Sky News reported that one suspect who had been under surveillance
was shot and wounded by police involved in the raids. Police did not immediately
confirm the man was a terror suspect

Ken Moroney, the New South Wales police commissioner, said that the suspects had
been under surveillance for 18 months and were in the final stages of planning
an attack.

"We believe we've disrupted a large-scale operation which, had it been allowed
to go through to fruition, we certainly believe would have been catastrophic,"
he told local TV.

Christine Nixon, Victoria's police commissioner, said the raids were directly
related to a warning last week by Mr Howard, of a specific terrorist attack. She
said that next year's Commonwealth Games in Melbourne were not a target.

"They have been charged with a range of offences, both state and federal
offences," she said.

Australia has never suffered a major peacetime attack on home soil, but the
country has been on medium security alert since shortly after the September 11
2001, attacks on the United States.

Last week Mr Howard's Liberal-National coalition government passed an urgent
amendment to anti-terrorism laws making it easier for police to arrest suspects
believed to be in the early stages of planning an attack, even if no specific
target for the attack is known.

The legislation prompted speculation that police would move against suspects in
Sydney and Melbourne who were understood to have carried out surveil lance on
targets such as the Sydney Opera House and Harbour bridge, and railway stations
and the stock exchange in Melbourne.

Opposition parties - Labour, the Democrats and the Greens - have accused the
government of playing politics with national security and trying to scare
Australians.

But the federal treasurer, Peter Costello, told ABC Radio: "This does really
illustrate that the threat of terrorism is real, that we cannot be complacent
about it. It's no consolation to wait until after an event and then try and pick
up the suspects."

All those arrested in the largest antiterror activity ever seen in Australia
were expected to face court later in the day. Charges included membership of a
terrorist organisation and directing the activities of a terrorist organisation.

A Melbourne lawyer, Rob Stary, said he represented eight people arrested in the
city, most of whom he said had been charged with being members of a banned
organisation. They included Abu Bakr, also known as Abdul Nacer Benbrika.

"This is important - they're not charged with any covert conduct," Mr Stary
said. "In other words, they're not charged with engaging in planning or
preparation of any terrorist offence; they're simply charged with membership
offences."

Mr Bakr is a dual Algerian and Australian citizen who has lived in Melbourne's
northern suburbs since 1989. He made headlines last August when he stated
publicly in an interview his support for Osama bin Laden. At the time, he denied
being involved in any terrorist activities but told Australia's ABC Radio that
he was a supporter of the al-Qaida leader.

Keysar Trad, a spokesman for the Islamic Friendship Association of Australia,
said that sections of the media had known in advance of the anti-terror raids.

Mr Howard and the state Labour premiers in New South Wales, Morris Iemma, and
Victoria, Steve Bracks, were due to address the public later this morning.


LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                November 8, 2005

International: Australia arrests foil terror attack

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 99 words


Police in Australia foiled an alleged terror attack when they arrested 17 people
in a series of early morning raids across Sydney and Melbourne. One of the
arrested men is a prominent radical Muslim cleric. New South Wales police
commissioner Ken Moroney told Australian Broadcasting Corporation radio that 400
officers, including federal and state police, were involved in the raids. The
coordinated raids also netted evidence including chemicals, weapons, computers
and backpacks. The arrests followed a 16-month investigation by federal and
state police and intelligence agents.


LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 8, 2005, Tuesday

POLICE 'FOIL MAJOR TERRORIST ATTACK'

SECTION: Final Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 48 words


SYDNEY Police in Australia arrested 15 terror suspects early this morning and
said they had foiled a major terror attack, which was in the final stages of
planning. Four hundred officers were involved in the arrests of six men in
Sydney. Nine more suspects were held in Melbourne.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               November 08, 2005

Police foil terror attack in Australia;

SECTION:  Pg. 21

LENGTH: 161 words


Police in Australia arrested 15 terror suspects in a string of raids early today
(Australian time) and said they had foiled a major terror attack.

"I'm satisfied that we have disrupted what I would regard as the final stages of
a large scale terrorist attack ... here in Australia," New South Wales Police
commissioner Ken Moroney told Australian Broadcasting Corp radio.

Mr Moroney said 400 officers, including federal and state police, were involved
in raids in Sydney that captured six men while nine more suspects were picked up
in the southern city of Melbourne.

Police declined to give details of the likely target of the attack, but Victoria
state police chief Christine Nixon said that next year's Commonwealth Games, to
be staged in Melbourne, were not a target.

Melbourne lawyer Rob Stary said he represented eight people arrested in the
city, most of whom he said had been charged with being members of banned
organisations.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      November 8, 2005, Tuesday Edition 1

Terror attack foiled

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 56 words


   Police in Australia arrested 15 terror suspects and in a string of raids
early today and said they had foiled a major terror attack. "I'm satisfied that
we have disrupted what I would regard as the final stages of a large scale
terrorist attack here in Australia," New South Wales Police Commissioner Ken
Moroney said.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2005 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                November 8, 2005

Mother's terror at brick attack

BYLINE: Samantha Lawton

SECTION: News; 999; Autocrime; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 335 words


A mother of seven-month-old twins has hit out at vandals who hurled a brick from
a bridge over the A50, smashing the back window of her family car. Victoria
Byatt was horrified when the missile crashed into her Renault Scenic as she
drove home to Meir Park on Friday.

The whole back seat area - where twins Harry and Richard usually sit - was
showered with glass.

By sheer luck, Mrs Byatt had left the tots, who were conceived after 13 years of
IVF treatment, at home with their father while she went to play badminton with a
friend.

The 38-year-old customer service manager at first thought the loud bang was a
firework when the missile struck at 8.30pm near the Meir turn-off. Mrs Byatt,
who is married to Karl and also has a 13-year-old son Thomas, said: "I was
watching all the fireworks going off as I drove along.

"I saw these kids leaning over and then there was a big explosion.

"I thought they had thrown a firework at the car.

"All this cold air was coming through and I looked through my rear view mirror
to see the back window smashed through.

"I managed to keep control of the car but didn't stop, I was just desperate to
get home to my husband.

"It really shook me up and I cried all the way home.

"Every time I went over a bump I could hear more and more glass crunching and
falling off the window.

"There were a thousands of tiny pieces. My babies are usually with me; they
would normally be sitting in rear-facing baby seats on the back seat, which was
full of glass.

"By the time I got in I was hysterical. My teenage son was horrified and my
husband went mad.

"I feel so angry. I want these kids to realise the damage they could have
caused.

"I don't usually go out without the twins. What could have happened to them
doesn't bear thinking about." The incident has been reported to police ,who are
scanning CCTV footage for evidence.

* They have appealed for witnesses to contact them on 08453 302010 or call
Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                     © Copyright 2005 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          November 9, 2005, Wednesday

TERROR CELLS PREPARING TO ATTACK AUSTRALIA

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 164 words


Two Islamic terror cells were rushing to become the first to stage a major
"jihad" terror bombing in Australia, a prosecutor said yesterday after armed
police arrested 17 suspects in a string of co-ordinated pre-dawn raids in two
cities.

One of the suspects, Abdulla Merhi, wanted to carry out attacks to avenge the
war in Iraq, police said in a Melbourne court.

Australian Prime Minister John Howard was a strong supporter of the US-led
invasion of Iraq and still has hundreds of troops in the country.

Opponents of Howard say that has raised the likelihood of terrorists striking
Australia.

Norm Hazzard, who heads the state's counter-terror police unit, said the
suspects were followers of al Qaida chief Osama bin Laden.

About 500 armed police arrested nine men in the southern city of Melbourne and
eight in Sydney, including one man critically injured in a gun fight with
police.

Police said they expected more arrests in the coming days and weeks

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 09, 2005, Wednesday

Terror cells 'plotted devastating twin attack in Australia'

BYLINE: By Nick Squires in Sydney

SECTION: News; International Pg. 016

LENGTH: 424 words

CHILLING details of an alleged plot by Islamist radicals to carry out a
"catastrophic" terrorist attack in Australia emerged yesterday.

Police arrested 17 suspects during dawn raids involving 450 heavily-armed
policemen backed by helicopters. Authorities alleged that the suspects were
members of a terrorist cell committed to "violent jihad" on Australian soil.

Among those detained was a trainee electrician allegedly impatient to carry out
a suicide bombing in retaliation for Canberra's support for the war in Iraq.

Police refused to reveal the group's alleged targets other than to rule out the
Commonwealth Games in Melbourne in March, which will be opened by the Queen.

Terrorism suspects have previously been caught carrying out surveillance on the
Sydney Opera House and Harbour Bridge and the Melbourne stock exchange.

Eight men were arrested in Sydney and nine in Melbourne in the biggest
counter-terrorism operation in Australia's history, the culmination of 16 months
of surveillance.

One of the Sydney suspects was shot in the neck and critically injured after he
fired at police who ordered him to stop as he walked towards a mosque.

"The police forces of this country might just have prevented a catastrophic act
of terrorism," the New South Wales police minister, Carl Scully, said.

Ken Moroney, the head of the state's police force, said: "I'm satisfied that we
have disrupted what I would regard as the final stages of a large-scale
terrorist attack."

The nine members of the alleged Melbourne terror cell appeared in court, where
prosecutors said they had carried out military training in the bush and had
stockpiled chemicals capable of making bombs.

Police disclosed that they had 240 hours of secretly taped recordings in which
the suspects allegedly discussed jihad and martyrdom.

The group's alleged leader, Abdul Nacer Benbrika, 45, a Muslim preacher, was
charged with directing the activities of a terrorist organisation and being a
member of a terrorist organisation.

The remaining eight, aged between 21 and 31, were charged with being members of
a terrorist organisation.

The eight Sydney suspects were charged with preparing to manufacture explosives
in preparation for a terrorist act.

The arrested men had been plotting to "kill innocent women and children,"
Richard Maidment, QC, prosecuting, told Melbourne magistrates' court.

He said intense rivalry between the two groups meant the Melbourne cell were
keen to outdo their counterparts in Sydney by fast-tracking plans for an attack.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           November 9, 2005 Wednesday

Terror cells 'plotted devastating twin attack in Australia'

BYLINE: Nick Squires in Sydney

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 418 words


CHILLING details of an alleged plot by Islamist radicals to carry out a
"catastrophic'' terrorist attack in Australia emerged yesterday.

Police arrested 17 suspects during dawn raids involving 450 heavily-armed
policemen backed by helicopters. Authorities alleged that the suspects were
members of a terrorist cell committed to "violent jihad'' on Australian soil.

Among those detained was a trainee electrician allegedly impatient to carry out
a suicide bombing in retaliation for Canberra's support for the war in Iraq.

Police refused to reveal the group's alleged targets other than to rule out the
Commonwealth Games in Melbourne in March, which will be opened by the Queen.

Terrorism suspects have previously been caught carrying out surveillance on the
Sydney Opera House and Harbour Bridge and the Melbourne stock exchange.

Eight men were arrested in Sydney and nine in Melbourne in the biggest
counter-terrorism operation in Australia's history, the culmination of 16 months
of surveillance.

One of the Sydney suspects was shot in the neck and critically injured after he
fired at police who ordered him to stop as he walked towards a mosque.

"The police forces of this country might just have prevented a catastrophic act
of terrorism,'' the New South Wales police minister, Carl Scully, said.

Ken Moroney, the head of the state's police force, said: "I'm satisfied that we
have disrupted what I would regard as the final stages of a large-scale
terrorist attack.''

The nine members of the alleged Melbourne terror cell appeared in court, where
prosecutors said they had carried out military training in the bush and had
stockpiled chemicals capable of making bombs.

Police disclosed that they had 240 hours of secretly taped recordings in which
the suspects allegedly discussed jihad and martyrdom.

The group's alleged leader, Abdul Nacer Benbrika, 45, a Muslim preacher, was
charged with directing the activities of a terrorist organisation and being a
member of a terrorist organisation.

The remaining eight, aged between 21 and 31, were charged with being members of
a terrorist organisation.

The eight Sydney suspects were charged with preparing to manufacture explosives
in preparation for a terrorist act.

The arrested men had been plotting to "kill innocent women and children,''
Richard Maidment, QC, prosecuting, told Melbourne magistrates' court.

He said intense rivalry between the two groups meant the Melbourne cell were
keen to outdo their counterparts in Sydney by fast-tracking plans for an attack.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                                November 9, 2005

Probe into phone calls after terrorist attack

BYLINE: Veronica Lorraine

SECTION: News; Courts; CrownCourt; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 410 words


A total of 34 calls were made between the phones of a brother and sister of a
failed Derby suicide bomber in the days following his attempted terrorist attack
in Israel. Parveen and Zahid Sharif are both accused of knowing of their brother
Omar's intentions but failing to tell the police.

The Old Bailey heard yesterday that the calls were made between April 30, the
date of Omar's attempted attack on a bar in Tel Aviv, and May 2, the day the
brother and sister were arrested and taken to Paddington Green police station.

Parveen (37), of Breedon Hill Road, Normanton, told the jury that although she
may have made some of the calls, other family members may have used it to call
Zahid. But she said she did not recall talking about Omar's whereabouts after
the attack.

Omar (27), of Northumberland Street, Normanton, travelled to the Middle East
with his accomplice, Asif Hanif (21), of West London. Asif detonated his bomb in
Mike's Place, a busy beachfront bar, and killed three people. But Omar's failed
to detonate and he ran off. His body was found in the sea 12 days later.

Jonathan Laidlaw, prosecuting, asked Parveen about an e-mail she had sent to her
brother in the days before the attack, urging him to be "firm and focused".

She denied it was a message of encouragement and said it was because Omar's wife
had been at her house that morning and was upset because Omar had e-mailed her
to tell her he was leaving her.

Mr Laidlaw asked her why she did not mention to him that Tahira was so upset.

Parveen told the jury: "It was a heartfelt message, relating to the soul, it was
a sensitive letter. I wanted them to get back together." He also asked why
Parveen had written that Omar should not worry about Tahira and suggested the
message was "meaningless gobbledygook".

"By April 23, when you sent the e-mail, you knew perfectly well your brother had
been accepted for a suicide bombing mission in Israel and you were passing on
not just support, but an encouragement for that act," said Mr Laidlaw.

But Parveen said: "There was so much talk about Omar going to study in Syria, I
did not know he was in Israel, what he was doing, who he was with.

"Why would I be telling him to go and kill himself?" Both Parveen and her
brother, Zahid (39), of Upperdale Road, Derby, deny a charge of failing to
disclose information about a terrorist act.

Parveen also denies inciting terrorism.

The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                    © Copyright 2005 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 9, 2005

NO ANTI-TERROR LAW CAN PROTECT US FROM ATTACK

SECTION: Scottish Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 154 words


THIS latest piece of Blair fear-mongering is more down to his dread that his
legacy will be blotted if something does happen, than his concern for innocent
people being blown up.

It is physically impossible to stop an individual from blowing himself up along
with innocents. There are millions of us. Thousands of rail stations, dozens of
airports and thousands of bus stations. It's just not possible to stop a single
nutter, or a group of them. In that light are we to lose our hard-won freedoms
just so that Blair can say, "I have to try to stop everything from happening"?
Like it or not, we just have to live with the risk.

Blair says the police and intelligence services tell him this is what they need.
After WMD and Iraq, why should we believe a word of that? Did anyone blame
Thatcher when she and her Cabinet were targeted in Brighton for the lack of
security in the country?

Allan McInnes, Wishaw

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                November 9, 2005

Chinese hotels warned of terror attacks

LENGTH: 270 words



HIGHLIGHT: Chinese police have warned luxury hotels that they could be attacked
by Islamic extremists, the US embassy in Beijing said yesterday, 10 days ahead
of a scheduled visit by President George Bush.


Chinese police have warned luxury hotels that they could be attacked by Islamic
extremists, the US embassy in Beijing said yesterday, 10 days ahead of a
scheduled visit by President George Bush.

"The embassy has learned that Chinese police advised hotels that Islamic
extremist elements could be planning to attack four- and five-star hotels in
China some time over the course of the next week," the embassy advised in an
email message.

"American citizens visiting Chinese four- and five-star hotels should review
their plans carefully, remain vigilant with regard to their personal safety, and
exercise caution."

President Bush is to make a three-day visit to Beijing from November 19, his
first trip to China since Hu Jintao became Chinese president in 2003.

Muslim unrest in China centres on the vast western province of Xinjiang, where
much of the Turkic-speaking Uighur population seeks independence from Beijing.

The Chinese authorities claim that local separatists are linked to extremist
Islamist groups in Afghanistan and Asia, and have stepped up suppression of
cultural and religious activity since serious protests against the government in
1997.

In September Beijing's public security ministry said that 160 people had been
killed and 440 wounded in more than 220 "terrorist" actions in the province
since the 1980s. Last month the government said 19 foreigners were arrested in
Xinjiang on terrorism charges.

But rights groups claim that the government has used anti-terrorist claims as a
way of clamping down on legitimate dissent in Xinjiang, in a campaign
characterised by arbitrary arrest, trial and executions.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                     November 10, 2005 Thursday 7:06 AM GMT

China denies US embassy report of planned terrorist attacks on hotels

LENGTH: 212 words


BEIJING (AFX) - Chinese authorities said a US embassy report warning that
Islamic extremists could be planning attacks on luxury hotels in China next week
was a 'sham' fabricated by a foreigner.

'The so-called attacks on four and five star hotels in China was a sham recently
fabricated by some foreign citizen,' the Public Security Ministry said in a
one-line faxed statement.

The US embassy in Beijing posted a statement on its website yesterday saying
Chinese police issued a warning that Islamic extremists could be planning to
attack four and five star hotels in China over the next week.

'The Embassy has learned that Chinese police advised hotels that Islamic
extremist elements could be planning to attack four and five star hotels in
China sometime over the course of the next week,' the statement said.

'Chinese authorities have assured the Embassy that they are taking appropriate
security measures and investigating the possible threat thoroughly.'

The US warning advised Americans visiting Chinese four and five star hotels to
'review their plans carefully', to 'remain vigilant with regard to their
personal security' and 'exercise caution.'

Various top-class hotels in Beijing told Agence France-Presse they had received
no such warning from the police.

cs-kma/jah/dk

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 10, 2005 Thursday

Russia calls for "united front against terrorism" in wake of Jordan attacks

LENGTH: 139 words


Text of report by Russian news agency ITAR-TASS

Harstad [Norway], 10 November: Russia is calling for the consolidation of the
"united front against terrorism", Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has
said, commenting on the terrorist acts in Amman.

"Everyone is under attack now," said the Russian minister, who is taking part in
an international conference in Norway. "A real war is being waged against modern
civilization and the leaders of Muslim countries who are striving for a dialogue
between civilizations, not confrontation. We cannot allow the united front
against terrorism to disintegrate."

He said the emergency meeting of the UN Security Council, which is being
convened today under Russia's chairmanship, "will give its reaction to the
barbarous act".

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0840 gmt 10 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 10, 2005 Thursday

US report of Beijing terror attack "sheer fabrication" - spokesman

LENGTH: 175 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Beijing, 10 November: A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Thursday [10
November] denied a report that luxury hotels in Beijing could be attacked by
Islamic extremists, describing it as "sheer fabrication".

It proves that the report posted online was from an anonymous foreign citizen,
said the ministry's spokesman, Liu Jianchao, in a regular news briefing. "It is
a sheer fabrication," he said.

The spokesman said the Ministry of Public Security has never released such news
and "is making an investigation into this case".

The US Embassy in Beijing posted a statement on its website on Wednesday saying
Islamic extremists will attack luxury hotels in China over next week.

"The embassy has learned that Chinese police advised hotels that Islamic
extremist elements could be planning to attack four and five star hotels in
China sometime over the course of the next week," according to the statement.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0741 gmt 10 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 10, 2005 Thursday

Egypt condemns Amman "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 115 words


Text of report in English by Egyptian news agency MENA

Amman, 10 November: Foreign Minister Ahmad Abu-al Ghayt on Thursday [10
November] denounced the heinous terrorist attacks in the Jordanian capital Amman
last night that aimed at killing innocent lives, spreading havoc among civilians
and threatening their security and safety.

Such a horrendous crime will no doubt reinforce our determination to muster
every potential and effort on the regional and international level to confront
and uproot terrorism, he said.

He expressed his deepest condolences to Jordanian Foreign Minister Faruq
al-Qasrawi and to the Jordanian people.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 0839 gmt 10 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 10, 2005 Thursday

Yemen condemns Jordan terrorist attack

LENGTH: 108 words


Text of report in English by Yemeni news agency Saba website

Sanaa, 10 November: Yemen condemned on Thursday [10 November] strongly the
terrorist attacks which killed more than sixty people in three explosions in
Amman, Jordan.

A source in the Foreign Ministry said that Yemen considered these attacks as
terror acts, confirming the importance of gathering world efforts to rout out
the terrorism to ensure security and stability in the world.

The source expressed solidarity of Yemen with Jordan and condolence of Yemen for
families of victims and Jordanian people and government.

Source: Saba news agency website, Sanaa, in English 0001 gmt 10 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 10, 2005 Thursday

Romanian Foreign Ministry "firmly" condemns terrorist attack in Jordan

LENGTH: 144 words


Text of report in English by Romanian news agency Rompres

Bucharest, 10 November: The Romanian Ministry for Foreign Affairs (MAE) firmly
condemns the terrorist attacks in the three hotels in the capital of the
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Amman, on the night of 9 November, which ended in
numerous victims among the civilian population.

MAE sent its condolences to the families of the victims and voiced conviction
that the Jordanian authorities have the necessary capability to "identify and
punish the authors of this criminal act and to surmount these difficult
moments", reads a release sent to the press on Thursday [10 November].

The Romanian authorities voiced again their willingness to cooperate with the
international community in order to remove the sources that may fuel terrorist
actions.

Source: Rompres news agency, Bucharest, in English 1521 gmt 10 Dec 05

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 10, 2005 Thursday

Malawi president condoles Jordanian king over terror attacks

LENGTH: 108 words


Text of report by Malawian MBC radio on 10 November

Malawi has condoled with His Majesty King Abdallah of the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan over the death of 57 people in triple suicide bombings earlier this
morning.

In a statement issued in the capital, Lilongwe, today, President Bingu wa
Mutharika said he has learnt with shock the senseless deaths of the innocent
people in the three hotels.

President Mutharika prayed that God should help the government and people of
Jordan in this troubled time.

He assured King Abdallah and the world that Malawi is committed in the fight
against terrorism.

Source: MBC radio, Blantyre, in English 1030 gmt 10 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 10, 2005

MUSLIM LEADERS ATTACK TERROR BILL

BYLINE: BEN LEAPMAN

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 327 words


A PANEL of Muslims set up by Home Secretary Charles Clarke has condemned every
key aspect of the Government's Anti-Terrorism Bill.

More than 100 prominent Muslims concluded that the legislation would damage
community relations and drive young people into the arms of extremists.

In its report, published today, the panel also calls the war in Iraq a "key
contributory factor" to the 7 July bombings something consistently denied by
Tony Blair.

The Home Office said the conclusions

of the Preventing Extremism Together panel

showed that it was not afraid to listen to criticism.

Ifath Nawaz, one of the seven conveners of the panel's working group, said:
"There is huge concern about the antiterrorist legislation that is proposed -
that it is vague, that it is excessive, that it is going to drive people
underground."

Labour peer Baroness Uddin said Muslim women were concerned that this
legislation is

going to hit them directly with regard to their families".

The panel demanded a public inquiry into the underlying causes of the 7 July
attacks, something Home Office Minster Hazel Blears said was already under
consideration.

A proposed clampdown on the glorification of terrorism also came in for fierce
criticism.

"The proposal on 'inciting, justifying or glorifying terrorism', currently
formulated, could lead to a significant chill factor in the Muslim community in
expressing legitimate

support for self-determination struggles around the world," the panel concluded.

On the issue of 90-day detention, which led to Mr Blair's first defeat as Prime
Minister last night, the report says: "Rather than extend the period of
detention of innocent people, the police should concentrate on improving their
intelligence, whose failures have led to huge resentment [in] the Muslim
community."

The report concludes that anti-terror law are "already excessive" and serve as a
recruiting call for radicals.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 10, 2005, Thursday

TERROR ATTACK INQUIRY REOPENED

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 52 words


MADRID An investigation into a 1985 restaurant bombing that killed 18 people
near a US Air Force base in Torrejon has been reopened after a witness
identified an accused leader of al-Qa'ida in Europe as one of the suspects. A
group that called itself Islamic Jihad-Islamic Resistance claimed
responsibility.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     November 10, 2005, Thursday Edition 1

Terror attacks fail to halt FirstGroup's advance

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 35

LENGTH: 314 words


   Transport operator FirstGroup has reported a strong showing by its rail arm,
despite the London terror attacks having a "significant" impact on business.

The firm, which operates nearly a sixth of the UK rail network, said operating
profits at the arm rose to 34.3m in the six months to September 30 from 32.7m
last time.

It said: "This is a particularly strong performance, given the effect of the
terrorist attacks on London which had a significant adverse impact on our rail
franchises during the second quarter."

FirstGroup said its First Great Western services were starting to see a recovery
in passenger numbers following the July attacks.

Across the group, bottom-line profits were 55.3m down on 64.3m last year but in
line with expectations following changes to accounting standards and the impact
of higher fuel costs.

The group described the results as "creditable" given the additional 13m of fuel
costs.

It said the rail performance demonstrated the strength of its First TransPennine
Express and First ScotRail franchises.

ScotRail, the UK's largest rail franchise, had performed well during the 12
months since FirstGroup landed the contract, and there was a 6% rise in
passenger volumes at TransPennine Express.

FirstGroup is also Britain's largest bus operator, running more than one in five
of all local bus services. A fleet of some 9,300 buses carries 2.8 million
passengers a day in more than 40 towns and cities.

During the period, the bus arm partly offset higher fuel expenses through cost
reduction measures. Revenues at the division increased by 5.9% but operating
profits fell to 40.7m from 49.4m.

Overall, revenues increased by 14% to 1.38bn and operating profits fell to 81.4m
from 85.6m following the impact of the higher fuel costs.

FirstGroup said it was raising the interim dividend by 10% to 4.55p a share.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2005 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 11, 2005 Friday

Sudan condemns Jordan terrorist attack

LENGTH: 142 words


Text of report by Sudanese news agency Suna website

Sudan has condemned the bombings which occurred in the Jordanian capital Amman
leading to the death of a large number of innocent people.

The state minister for foreign affairs, Ali Ahmad Karti, described the bombings
as a criminal and terrorist act, which did not focus on religious, moral or
humanitarian values and was only an attempt to destabilize the stability which
the fraternal republic of Jordan was enjoying and terrorizing the innocent
people.

The state minister, Karti, also stressed that the Sudanese leadership,
government and people would stand by Jordan until they surpass this calamity and
that he had confidence in the wisdom and competence of the Jordanian king,
government and people to deal with such acts of barbarism.

Source: Suna news agency website, Khartoum, in Arabic 11 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 11, 2005 Friday

Kenyan paper slams Jordan terror attacks; urges local anti-terror legislation

LENGTH: 396 words


Text of editorial entitled "Terror: Shall we ever learn?" by Kenyan newspaper
Daily Nation website on 11 November

The term terrorism is again on everyone's lips. Barely five months since
suspected Al-Qa'idah terrorists struck in the heart of London, killing more than
50 people, they have done it again, this time in relatively tranquil Jordan,
killing, by the latest count, 57 people.

As has become an Al-Qa'idah hallmark, these attacks were synchronized to hit
three major hotels in Amman, all frequently patronized by foreigners, mainly
Americans and Israelis. But, as it turned out, most of the dead were Jordanians.

It also became clear that Jordan was targeted, not just because the Hashemite
Kingdom has been an American ally for decades, but also because it is one of two
Middle Eastern countries that have signed a peace treaty with Israel.

We, in this part of the world, are always concerned whenever we learn about one
more atrocity being committed by terror groups of any description. This is
because we have had our share of such mindless violence on at least three
occasions, the worst being the attack on the US embassy in Nairobi on 7 August
1998, in which at least 200 Kenyans died.

The plain fact is that we are not out of the woods yet, as attested by the
bombing of Paradise Hotel in Kikambala in early 2002. But beyond joining the
chorus of condemnation whenever a terror atrocity happens here or in a foreign
country, have we really done enough to deter yet another attack on Kenya?

The answer is no. Terrorists are like gadflies. Whenever you swat one, another
takes its place and stings you in another place. The only way to contain
terrorism is through a comprehensive counter-offensive, which we, in Kenya, have
not legislated into being yet.

This is critical. Two years ago, the government tried to push through the
Anti-Terrorism Bill, but the move was thwarted by parliament. The House was
rightly apprehensive about the many draconian measures that would have led to
oppression against people considered suspect.

Since then, nothing has been heard about a redrafted version that would give our
law-enforcement agencies the muscle to contain terrorism without giving them the
leeway to terrorise Kenyans.

The authorities must hasten that bill. Yet, right now, nobody seems to be
thinking about it.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 11 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           November 11, 2005, Friday

DEAD TERRORIST LINKED TO NEW BOMB ATTACKS

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 90 words


ONE of Asia's most wanted terrorists was staying in a safehouse packed with
London-style backpack bombs when he was killed, triggering speculation he was
planning more terror strikes.

Azahari bin Husin's death is another major blow to the al-Queda-linked Jemaah
Islamiyah, but at least four other senior members of the group remain on the
run, security analysts said.

The Afghan-trained explosives expert was accused of making the bombs used in the
2002 Bali nightclub attacks and at least three other deadly blasts in Indonesia.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2005 Century Newspapers Limited

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 11, 2005, Friday

Blair's Muslim task force attacks terror crackdown

BYLINE: By Philip Johnston Home Affairs Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 005

LENGTH: 485 words

TONY Blair's counter-terror crackdown came under fire yesterday from a Muslim
task force set up by the Home Office to combat extremism.

A group of Islamic experts appointed after the July 7 suicide attacks in London
said the measures risked alienating law-abiding Muslims and driving fanatics
underground.

They were especially critical of plans to outlaw groups such as Hizb-ut-tahrir
and al-Muhajiroun.

The report concluded that British foreign policy was a "key contributory factor"
in spurring British Muslims to extremism. Ifath Nawaz, the deputy convenor of
one of the seven working groups, said: "There is huge concern about the
anti-terrorism legislation, that it is excessive and it is going to drive people
underground. We have expressed concern and ask for a dialogue to be opened up."

Leading Muslims want a public inquiry into the July attacks that they believe
will expose a deep well of resentment at Government policy in Iraq and the
Middle East. A Home Office spokesman said the request was still under
consideration.

The report argued that radical impulses among the Muslim community were often
triggered by "perceptions of injustices inherent in western foreign policy". It
added: "British foreign policy - especially in the Middle East - cannot be left
unconsidered as a factor in the motivations of criminal radical extremists. We
believe it is a key contributory factor."

Other measures in the Terrorism Bill, including plans to compile a list of
extremist Muslim websites, bookshops and centres, could be perceived as
"censorship of those who might criticise British foreign policy or call for
political unity among Muslims".

The report denounced the Bill's plan for a new offence of "glorifying
terrorism".

It said: "The proposal ... could lead to a significant chill factor in the
Muslim community in expressing legitimate support for self-determination
struggles around the world, and in using legitimate concepts and terminology
because of fear of being misunderstood and implicated for terrorism by
authorities ignorant of Arabic/Islamic vocabulary.

"This would not only result in an inappropriate restriction around the practice
of Islam but also its development in the present context."

Government plans for a new police power to close mosques being used by Islamic
extremists were criticised as arbitrary and open to abuse.

"The proposal on closing certain mosques rather than simply prosecuting the
criminality in those mosques could deprive a whole congregation," the report
said.

Hazel Blears, the Home Office minister, said: "People will disagree with
decisions that the Government takes but the way of changing that in a democracy
is through the democratic process."

The task force proposed a number of initiatives, including a national tour by
mainstream imams to preach against extremism and a British-Islam website to
counter fanatical Muslim sites.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                               November 11, 2005

UK Government: EU Presidency condemns terrorist attacks in Jordan

LENGTH: 251 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-NOVEMBER 11, 2005-UK Government: EU Presidency condemns terrorist
attacks in Jordan ©1994-2005 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The United Kingdom, as Presidency of the European Union, today condemned the
attacks in Jordan's capital city Amman.

British Foreign Secretary, Jack Straw, said:

"The EU condemns the terrorist attacks in Amman on 9 November. I send our
condolences and sympathies to His Majesty the King of Jordan, to the people of
Jordan, and especially to the families of all the victims caught up in this
terrible attack.

"I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the work of the Jordanian
rescue services and to support the efforts of the Jordanian Police, and security
services who are dealing with the consequences of this appalling incident.

"When, this morning, I toured one of the hotels attacked in this blast with my
friend the Jordanian Foreign Minister Farouk Qasrawi, I reiterated our support
for their efforts in combating terrorism and finding those responsible for these
barbarous attacks.

"Terrorism is a global evil. These outrageous attacks against innocent people -
some of whom were celebrating their wedding day when they were so brutally
murdered - only strengthens our determination to defeat terrorism."

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               November 11, 2005

Blair's Islamic advisers attack terror policies

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 529 words


Hard-line measures are excessive and will only radicalise young Muslims, says
influential panel

Simon McGee

Political Editor

TOUGH anti-terror policies championed by Tony Blair are excessive, badly
implemented and only serve to radicalise young Muslims - according to the
Government's own panel of Islamic advisers.

Just hours after the Prime Minister suffered his first -ever Commons defeat over
proposals for 90-day detention without charge for terror suspects, influential
Muslims appointed by Home Secretary Charles Clarke after July 7 have published a
withering critique of Labour's plans.

Muslim clerics, politicians, academics and community leaders sitting on seven
Home Office appointed working groups, each of which looked at tackling support
for terrorism, found that British foreign policy was a "key contributory factor"
in spurring British Muslims to extremism.

And on the basis of months of visits and discussions with people at all levels
of Islamic communities across the country, they also concluded that Mr Blair's
policies risked alienating law-abiding Muslims and driving fanatics underground.

An interim report by the same advisers in September recommended a national
roadshow of Muslim scholars and setting up a new national council to guide
Muslim communities on how to avoid extremists using their mosques. Their final
report was published yesterday with 64 recommendations.

Yorkshire peer Lord Ahmed, convener of one of the seven committees, said there
had been virtual unanimity in the working groups on there being a link between
Iraq and the spread of extremism, and on concern over specific anti-terror
policies.

"Everyone in the working groups made it very clear that they believed Iraq was a
big issue and that there are problems with the legislation," he said.

"We know that the Government won't change their foreign policy or change their
terror policies as a result, but at least we've done our part by telling them
what we think. We hope that on the majority of our findings the Government will
now do their part".


Flying in the face of repeated Downing Street denials that the Iraq war has
provoked terrorism, the working groups concluded that Britain's behaviour in
Iraq and elsewhere was "a key contributory factor" in the motivation of
"criminal radical extremists".

The Muslim working groups also criticised key anti-terror measures proposed by
the Government.

Plans to ban certain Islamic organisations - Mr Blair intends to outlaw two
radical groups, Hizb ut-Tahrir and al-Muhajiroun, under a law change contained
in the current Terror Bill - could send them underground and make them "more
problematic in the future".

Proposals to draw up a list of extremist Muslim websites, bookshops and centres
could be perceived, stated the report, as "censorship of those who might
criticise British foreign policy or call for political unity among Muslims".

The report also attacked the Terror Bill's controversial plan for a new offence
of "glorifying terrorism", and further Government plans for a new police power
to close down mosques which are being used by Islamic extremists were condemned.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2005

                       Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 12, 2005 Saturday

Seychelles president condoles Jordanian monarch in wake of terror attacks

LENGTH: 162 words


Text of report in English by Seychelles Nation newspaper website on 11 November

President James A Michel has sent a message of condolence to HM King Abdallah II
of Jordan following Wednesday's (9 November) blasts in three hotels in Amman
which have resulted in loss of lives, casualties and extensive material damage.

"It was with deep shock and profound sadness that we learned of the explosions
in three hotels in Amman, resulting in the loss of innocent lives, casualties
and extensive material damage," says President Michel in his message.

"In the wake of this tragedy, the government and the people of the Republic of
Seychelles join me in expressing our deepest condolences to you, to the
government and to the people of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, as well as to
the families of the victims.

"We wish to assure you, Your Majesty, of our solidarity in this moment of
national grief," the message reads.

Source: Seychelles Nation website, Victoria, in English 11 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           November 12, 2005 Saturday

Travellers face security crackdown Critics question anti-terrorist measures
following new attacks. Charles Starmer-Smith reports

BYLINE: Charles Starmer-Smith

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 648 words


Security screening on British trains, sonic weapons on cruise ships, Arab
travellers asked to register for US flights, security fences in Sharm el-Sheikh
and Balinese villagers employed to monitor visitors - these are just some of the
hardline measures taken to combat terrorism in recent weeks.

Wednesday's bomb attacks in Jordan have highlighted the need for increased
security, but critics have argued that such steps are threatening our basic
freedom to travel.

Last week, the Government announced that screening techniques are to be tested
on the national rail and London Underground networks in response to the July 7
bombings. The trials, which will include the first use of body scanners, will
begin in the New Year at Paddington. Passengers will also face body searches,
sniffer dogs and X-ray machines for luggage.

On the New York subway there is a policy of random searches, and sniffer-dog
teams patrol a range of rail networks. Throughout the US, Muslim travellers have
this week been urged to register with federal authorities before flying, to
reduce the chances of being stopped or questioned at airports.

Daniel Sutherland, the head of civil rights for the US Department of Homeland
Security, advised Muslim or Arab passengers to complete an online form on the
Transportation Security Administration website (and provide copies of three
identification documents) prior to travel, to avoid being confused with suspects
named on the terrorist watch-list.

The department says the initiative is designed to improve relations with
Arab-Americans, but Muslims have been outraged by the demands, which they say
will have a divisive effect and allow governments to archive personal
information.

A spokesman for EPIC, the Electronic Privacy Information Centre, said that even
more stringent travel security measures are being considered.

"Some of these proposals, such as improved training for airport screeners, are
sound measures,'' he said. "But others present privacy and security risks -
including those to use biometric credentials for 'trusted travellers', and
extensive data-mining of credit history, criminal records and travel patterns to
profile airline passengers.''

The spokesman added that Nasa has suggested developing "non-invasive
neuro-electric sensors'' (brain scans) at security gates to see if people are
having suspicious thoughts.

Three-hour check-in times have become the norm for transatlantic passengers, as
US authorities demand more extensive personal information, while Daily Telegraph
readers have complained of being detained, or even shackled, because their names
were similar to those on the terrorist list.

Chris Yates, the aviation security editor of Jane's Transport, has said that
once travellers are mistakenly stopped and interrogated at US customs it may
happen again every time they return.

"At the moment, if you are misidentified and blacklisted, it is almost
impossible to get your name off the list - and there's no redress,'' he added.

In Egypt, a security cordon around the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh is
under construction in the wake of July's bomb attacks, while many of the
city-centre hotels have installed bomb- screening machines.

In Bali, following the bomb attacks in October, which claimed 20 lives, local
villagers are to be employed by police to monitor the movements of new arrivals.
And after the pirate attacks on the Seabourn Spirit cruise ship off the coast of
Somalia last week, it emerged that many such ships have been equipped with sonic
weapons to ward off further incidents.

The frequency of terrorist attacks has led insurance companies to include them
for the first time in providing cover for clients. Insure and Go said this week
that it will now insure travellers for loss of possessions, delays and
cancellations if they are caught up in attacks abroad. Medical expenses and
emergency assistance are already covered.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                               November 12, 2005

Rumour Of Terror Attack Is Quashed

SECTION: News; 999; CrimePrevention; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 208 words


Police have quashed a rumour of a possible terrorist attack in Cheltenham
following a Chinese whisper style urban myth which has been circulating the
county. Officers are urging people to "treat with caution" a rumour which warns
people to stay away from the spa town in the fortnight before Christmas.

The rumour, which is being circulated via e-mail and word of mouth, concerns an
Asian male who loses his wallet, only to have it returned to him by a member of
the public.

According to the story, the man thanks the person by warning them to stay away
from the town.

The information appears to suggest that some form of attack or major incident
will take place in the county during the festive period.

But police have said they have carried out an investigation into the
allegations, and officers are keen to reassure the public that they have found
no credibility to the rumours.

It appears the scenario involving the Asian male has been reported in other UK
cities over the past couple of years - again without foundation - and is
considered to be an "urban myth".

A police spokesman said: "We would like to thank the public for the continued
vigilance they have shown by bringing this rumour to our attention."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                    © Copyright 2005 The Gloucester Citizen

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                     November 13, 2005 Sunday 12:16 PM GMT

Indonesian anti-terror chief warns of further attacks by militants - report

LENGTH: 177 words


JAKARTA (AFX) - Islamic militants will likely carry out scattered attacks
following the death of master bombmaker Azahari Husin, said Ansyaad Mbai, the
head of the anti-terrorism desk at the security ministry, in comments broadcast
by RCTI television.

He said extremists are likely to operate in small groups, each capable of
launching attacks.

'They are metamorphozing into small groups, and each is not tied to a
hierarchy,' he said. 'Each group can autonomously interpret in what situation
they can mount an attack or who are the targets.'

'Their only bond is their ideology and mindset,' he said.

Indonesian police killed Azahari, one of Asia's most wanted militants, and an
accomplice Wednesday in a raid on a house in East Java province.

Police have mounted a massive hunt for Azahari's elusive accomplice and
compatriot Noordin Mohammad Top.

Both men, thought to be leading members of the Al Qaeda-linked Jemaah Islamiyah
extremist network, were blamed for planning last month's Bali bombings as well
as the Oct 2002 attacks there in which 202 people died.

tn/fz/swp

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           November 14, 2005, Monday

THE RAZZ: COCAINE KATE IN STALKER TERROR;
 SEX ATTACKER ON THE RUN

BYLINE: BY STEPHEN MOYES

SECTION: Streets Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 390 words


KATE MOSS has been caught up in a police hunt for a fugitive sex attacker who
confessed he is "addicted" to her.

Psychotic New York stalker Peter Braunstein is on the run suspected of a bizarre
attack on a former colleague.

Police sources said supermodel Moss, in the city for an assignment, has been
warned to stay on her guard.

Journalist Braunstein once claimed he and Moss were "meant to be together".

The mum-of-one is in New York for her first modelling job since leaving the
£2000-a-night Meadows clinic in Arizona.

She had been seeking treatment for the cocaine addiction threatening her career.
Friends of the model said last night the stalker nightmare was, "the last thing
she needs".

Braunstein, 41, reportedly dressed as a fireman and set off fire bombs to gain
entrance to an ex-colleague's flat. She was blindfolded, bound with tape,
stripped, and assaulted for 13 hours two weeks ago. The attacker had a gun and
used chloroform to knock her out.

He later forced the woman to take a sleeping pill, then took one himself before
lying down beside her for a nap.

Braunstein, a former writer for the Village Voice weekly and Women's Wear Daily,
has been dubbed the "fire fiend" and a "sex sicko" in American papers.

He published an article, Stalking Kate, in the magazine BlackBook in 2003. It
sparked fears he may have been trying to impress Moss by getting his name in the
papers - a delusion that propelled John Hinckley to shoot President Reagan in
1981 in the belief it would make actress Jodie Foster fall in love with him.

In his article, Braunstein said he became obsessed with Moss in 1992 when her
Calvin Klein perfume ads won her international fame. Three years later he wrote:
"I tried to kick Kate cold turkey."

Braunstein persuaded his girlfriend of the time to let him keep a picture of the
Croydon-born beauty next to his bed.

He wrote: "There will never be a 'next Kate' for a simple reason: Kate is always
the 'next Kate'. That makes her every woman, real or imagined, I've ever fallen
hopelessly in love with."

Investigating officers established he obtained a passport a few days back, but
there's no evidence he left the country.

There are signs Moss is rebuilding her career and Roberto Cavalli reportedly
paid her £100,000 for an assignment last week

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 14, 2005

Terrorists 'planned attack' on Sydney nuclear reactor

SECTION: LSE_04; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 123 words


A NUCLEAR reactor was a possible target for the terror suspects arrested in
Australia last week, police say. The 18 suspects were detained during raids in
Melbourne and Sydney. Some were charged with planning an attack on an
unspecified target.

A police fact sheet said Mazen Touma, Mohammed Elomar and Abdul Rakib Hasan were
stopped in a car by police near the nuclear facility at Lucas Heights, in
southern Sydney, in December 2004. The men had a trail bike and told police they
were in the area to ride it, the document said. A lock had been forced open near
the reactor site, and all three men gave different versions of the day's events.
Defence lawyers have denied the claims, which they say are politically
motivated.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               November 14, 2005

Woman confesses to role in Jordan terror attacks;

SECTION:  Pg. 29

LENGTH: 330 words


An Iraqi woman appeared on Jordanian television yesterday to confess to her
failed bid to set off an explosives belt inside one of the three Amman hotels
targeted by al-Qaida.

"My husband wore an (explosives-packed) belt and I wore another. He told me how
to use it," Sajida Mubarak Atrous al-Rishawi (35), who was shown on state-run TV
wearing the disabled bomb strapped around her waist, said.

Looking nervous and wringing her hands, al-Rishawi described Wednesday's attack
on the Radisson SAS - one of three hotels targeted.

"My husband detonated (his bomb) and I tried to explode my belt but it
wouldn't," she said.

"People fled running and I left, running with them."

Her husband, Ali Hussein Ali al-Shamari (35) was identified yesterday as one of
three Iraqi men who carried out bombings on three Amman hotels that killed 57
people.

Jordan's deputy premier Marwan Muasher said the four Iraqis drove into Jordan
from Iraq on November 4, just five days before the attacks, and rented an
apartment in western Amman. They took taxis to the attack sites last Wednesday.

The involvement of al-Zarqawi in the triple hotel bombings is a worrying
development for the region, indicating that the feared terrorist or his leaders
have deadly designs and abilities beyond war-ravaged Iraq's borders.

The female would-be bomber was identified as the sister of the slain former
militant Mubarak Atrous al-Rishawi, the former right-hand man of al-Zarqawi, the
head of al-Qaida in Iraq.

Muasher said the woman's brother was killed by US forces in the one-time
terrorist stronghold of Fallujah, west of Baghdad.

Al-Qaida in Iraq had already claimed responsibility for the bombings, which it
said it launched to strike at Jordan's support for the US and other Western
powers, and because it accused Jordan of defiling Islam.

The attacks sparked the largest Jordanian manhunt in living history and led to a
large anti-terror rally in Ammam.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 The Irish News Limited

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 15, 2005 Tuesday

Philippines police worry over possible terror attacks at Southeast Asian Games

LENGTH: 193 words


Text of report by Danilo Garcia entitled: "Manila police worried over SEA
games", published by Philippine newspaper Pilipino Star Ngayon website on 15
November

The leadership of the Manila Police District (MPD) admitted yesterday that they
are worried over possible terrorist attack in the upcoming Southeast Asian [SEA]
Games that will be launched at the Quirino Grandstand in Ermita, Manila.

MPD Director Pedro Bulaong said that it is a huge responsibility on their part
to make sure that the holding of SEA Games is peaceful.

Aside from Quirino Grandstand where the opening ceremony will be held on 27
November, they will also tightly guard San Andres Coliseum in San Andres; Emilio
Aguinaldo College Gymnasium where wrestling will be held; Roxas Boulevard where
cycling will be held; and, Rizal Sports Complex.

Ten five-star hotels in Manila where the athletes and delegates will be staying
will also be tightly guarded, aside from giving personal security to them. The
biggest problem of the police now is if terrorists will mix with the athletes
that will be sent by neighbouring countries.

Source: Pilipino Star Ngayon website, Manila, in Tagalog 15 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 15, 2005 Tuesday

Russian police on alert for terror attacks

LENGTH: 175 words


Text of report by Russian Ekho Moskvy radio on 15 November

Rebels are preparing a major new attack on Moscow in response to the failure of
their attack on Nalchik, the electronic newspaper utro.ru reports, citing a
source in the Ministry of Internal Affairs.

The police have stepped up their already high level of security measures: OMON
special-purpose troops in body armour carrying automatic weapons are on duty
alongside the traffic police at the entry points into the capital. According to
the source, the ministry has information suggesting that Chechen rebels are
planning to take revenge for Nalchik before the end of the year. An act of
terrorism is expected on a comparable scale to Nord-Ost or the blasts at
buildings on Kashirskoye Shosse and Ulitsa [Street] Guryanova, the newspaper
says, quoting the source. Astrakhan and towns in the North Caucasus are also
likely targets.

The Ministry of Internal Affairs is asking the people of Moscow and the other
towns to be vigilant.

Source: Ekho Moskvy radio, Moscow, in Russian 1200 gmt 15 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 15, 2005 Tuesday

US consulate in Hong Kong website issues warning on possible terror attack

LENGTH: 1063 words


Text of dispatch by WWP reporter Luo Ching-wen and Beijing News Centre reporter
Wang Chueh on 14 November headlined: "US issues another warning of possible
terror attack on institutions stationed in Guangzhou" by Hong Kong newspaper Wen
Wei Po website on 15 November; subheadings as published

[Abstract] Following the warning in China's Beijing about terror attack last
Wednesday, the United States issued another warning on 14 November, saying that
it has "creditable information" of a possible terrorist threat against its
facilities in the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou. Refusing to comment on
Hong Kong's risk, a spokesman of the US Consulate General in Hong Kong said: In
the event of an emergency incident, US citizens living and tourists travelling
in south China are urged to register with the US Consulate General in Guangzhou
located in Shamian. The Chinese Foreign Ministry said: China has noticed the US
security warning. The Chinese side has taken and will continue to take effective
measures to protect the safety of US facilities and citizens in China.

The website of the US Consulate General in Hong Kong has issued a warning and
emailed US citizens about a possible terrorist threat against US facilities in
Guangzhou, or places frequently visited by US citizens, such as bars,
restaurants, schools, or outdoor recreational venues. The website urged US
citizens in Guangzhou to maintain vigilance. However, US Consulate spokesman
Stevenson [as transliterated] said that in addition to the website information,
he had no more details that could be disclosed.

Possible terror attack of bars, restaurants, schools

According to the spokesman of the US Consulate General in Guangzhou, Washington
had received creditable information about a possible terror attack of US
government facilities in Guangzhou. The spokesman said: A notice has been
issued, warning US citizens of the possible effect on hotels and places
frequently visited by US citizens, such as nightclubs, restaurants, churches,
and schools. However, the spokesman refused to divulge concrete details.

Chinese side says effective protection measures already taken

In an interview with Wen Wei Po in the early evening, an official of the Chinese
Foreign Ministry Information Department expressed a three-point view: The
Foreign Ministry has noticed the security warning issued by the US side; China
has always paid close attention to protecting foreign facilities and citizens in
China; and the Chinese side has already taken and will continue to take
effective measures to protect their safety.

On the questions of whether or not the Chinese side had confirmed the
authenticity of the information, and whether or not the latest response was
different from last week's clarification on the "false report about possible
attack on four-and five-star hotels in Beijing," the Foreign Ministry said no
further information was available.

The Ministry of Public Security has refused to comment on the relevant
information. In response to a Wen Wei Po telephone inquiry, the ministry press
spokesman Wu Heping said that no comment was available at this moment, and that
everything should be based on information released by the Foreign Ministry. The
US Embassy in China also indicated that it learned about the information on the
warning from the network, and that it had no knowledge whatsoever of the source
of the information.

No confirmation is necessary before issuing warning of a possible terror attack

Last Wednesday (9 November) a warning was posted on the website of the US
Embassy in China, saying: According to the Chinese public security agency,
Islamic extremists may use the occasion of Bush's visit to attach four-and
five-star hotels in Beijing. Beijing immediately dismissed this as false
information fabricated by a certain anonymous foreigner, adding that the Chinese
public security department had never issued such a warning to hotels. At the
present, the Chinese police are still investigating this matter.

Shortly afterwards, the US Embassy in China issued another statement on its
website to retract the warning. The US Embassy spokesman explained the hoax to
Wen Wei Po in detail: Upon receiving several anonymous phone calls, the US
Embassy immediately issued the warning on its website. The US government
regulation requires its embassies stationed abroad to immediately notify US
citizens whenever tips of terror attack are received, even before the tips are
still not confirmed.

Yankees in the bars in Guangzhou unconcerned about rumours on terror attack

When WWP reporters went to the US Consulate General in Guangzhou in connection
with the so-called rumours about possible attack on US facilities in Guangzhou,
Charles [as published] of the consulate's press and cultural department said
"don't know" [English as published] repeatedly for three times and told the
reporters to visit the consulate website for the relevant information.

On a newsgathering assignment to dozens of Western restaurants, bars, and other
places frequently visited y Americans in Guangzhou from the afternoon to 2300
today [14 November], the reporters found out that the security and operational
personnel of these places were totally unaware of the aforesaid rumours. In bars
and other recreational venues, in particular, their employees dismissed the
existence of any security problem because their security measures are sound. In
the bar Starlight Boulevard on Yanjiang Road, the reporter notices that
foreigners began to arrive at around 2100. An American by the name of Hans
(phonetic) told reporters that he understood such a warning, but he did not
approve of it personally. "As we know, the current social environment in
Guangzhou is safe, and there is nothing to worry about," said Hans.

According to the security personnel, Americans usually arrived at the bar for a
drink around midnight and more people would be there by that time. In the bar
Babyface [as published], another place that Americans frequent, the bar tender
told the reporters: No warning about "possible attack on Americans" has been
received. Normally there are a lot of Americans. The bar had complete security
measures and did not need to take any precaution. Before 2300, the reporters saw
a dozen or so foreigners in the bar, but there are more Chinese customers than
usual.

Source: Wen Wei Po website, Hong Kong, in Chinese 15 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           November 15, 2005, Tuesday

TERRORISTS MAY HAVE PLANNED ATTACK ON NUCLEAR REACTOR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 356 words


Police believe a nuclear reactor in southern Sydney was a possible target of a
Sydney-based Islamic terror cell, according to details of Australia's
biggest-ever counter-terror investigation.

Police previously stopped and questioned three recently-arrested Sydney terror
suspects near Australia's only nuclear reactor in December last year, according
toan alarming outline of police allegations.

The document, made public by Sydney's Central Local Court, outlined the
allegations against eight terror suspects who were arrested last week and
charged with planning a terrorist attack.

Under the heading "Possible targets for terrorist attack," the police document
said Mazen Touma, Mohammed Elomar and Abdul Rakib Hasan were stopped in a car by
New South Wales state police near the nuclear facility at Lucas Heights, in
southern Sydney, in December 2004.

The men had an off-road motorbike and told police they were in the semi-rural
area to ride it, the document said.

When interviewed separately, however, all three men gave different versions of
the day's events, the document said. After investigating the area, police found
that the lock on one of the gates surrounding the nuclear complex "had recently
been cut," the police document said.

New South Wales state Premier Maurice Iemma sought to reassure the public that
the reactor was safe.

The reactor is used for making radioactive material for medical uses and does
not generate power. In 2000, before the Sydney Olympics, detectives in New
Zealand said they had uncovered a possible plot to attack the reactor, but there
were never any arrests.

Touma, Elomar and Hasan were arrested along with 15 other suspects in Sydney and
Melbourne last week. Police allege they were part of an Australian-based terror
network that was plotting to carry out a "catastrophic" attack.

The eight Sydney men have been charged with conspiring to manufacture explosives
in preparation for a terrorist act, and the ten Melbourne men are accused of
being members of a terrorist organisation.

All 18 suspects face a maximum of life imprisonment if convicted

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           November 15, 2005, Tuesday

TERROR SUSPECTS PLANNED ATTACK ON OZ NUKE PLANT;
 POLICE FOUND SECURITY GATE LOCK CUT

BYLINE: BY ROGER MAYNARD

SECTION: Streets Edition; NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 546 words


A NUCLEAR reactor was one of the targets surveyed by terror suspects who were
arrested in Australia last week, police have revealed Three of the 18 men
arrested last week were stopped in December 2004 outside the country's only
nuclear plant.

When challenged by the police, they said they were trail biking in the area.

Later, they gave three different stories during separate interviews with
officers.

Police documents released yesterday said: "Inquiries revealed that the access
lock for a gate to the reservoir of the reactor had recently been cut."

The reactor, near Sydney, is used for making radioactive material for medical
uses and does not generate power Files added that members of the alleged Sydney
terror cell were stockpiling bomb-making materials and training in terrorism at
Outback hunting camps.

In a 20-page glimpse into Australia's biggest ever terror investigation, police
said the 18 suspects had the know-how and were assembling the ingredients,
including chemicals and detonators, to carry out a deadly major attack.

Police said they found 24 bottles of hydrogen peroxide solution stashed on
public land behind the home of one of the suspects, Khaled Sharrouf.

When mixed with other chemicals, hydrogen peroxide can make explosives.

In October, Sharrouf also was arrested for trying to steal six digital timers
and approximately 132 batteries from a hardware store, police said.

Another alleged cell member, Abdul Rakib Hasan, tried to buy laboratory
equipment and a 100litre cooler that detectives said was to be used for storing
chemicals.

Two other men, whose identities were not released, visited a car-parts
wholesaler to buy 200 litres of brake fluid and300 litres of sulphuric acid,
police said.

They were informed by the manager that the combination of sulphuric acid and
brake fluid was a highly volatile mix.

When asked for their business details, the men said they would come back the
following day but never returned.

A search of suspect Moustafa Cheikho's home when he was arrested uncovered two
loaded semi-automatic pistols, two samurai swords and various chemicals,
detectives said, adding that he had attended a terror training camp in Pakistan
in 2001.

Police allege that, in March and April this year, several members of the group
took hunting and camping trips near the Outback town of Bourke, about 400 miles
northwest of Sydney.

Police allege that these camping and training trips were part of the jihad
training being undertaken by the group.

The statement added: "The trips are consistent with the usual modus operandi of
terrorists."

During a search of suspect Mohammed Elomar's home on June 27, police said they
found a computer memory stick that contained instructions in Arabic for making
TATP, or triacetone triperoxide.

It is a highly unstable explosive made from commercially available chemicals
such as hydrochloric and sulphuric acids, brake fluid and hydrogen peroxide.

The eight Sydney suspects have been charged with conspiring to manufacture
explosives in preparation for a terrorist act.

Ten others, held in Melbourne, are accused of being members of a terrorist
organisation.

All 18 suspects face a maximum of life imprisonment if convicted

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PLOT: A suspect in custody, left, as police chief Ken Moroney and New
South Wales premier Maurice Iemma outline the report; TARGET: The; nuclear
reactor surveyed by the alleged terrorists

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 15, 2005, Tuesday

LETTER: TERROR VOTE FOILS BLAIR ATTACK ON PARLIAMENT

BYLINE: PETER GILES

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 196 words


Sir: Paul Gillions (Letters, 12 November) raises an interesting point. Our
present form of government is supposedly a 'liberal parliamentary democracy'.
The word 'liberal' seems a misnomer nowadays " 'mass democracy' or 'popular
democracy' would seem to be more appropriate. Now Tony Blair seems to be doing
away with the 'parliamentary' part of the definition by appealing to the 'will
of the people' above that of Parliament.

My old father used to say that when the country was governed by the opinions of
the 'man in the street' on every issue, it would be the end of everything. This
sort of view is ridiculed nowadays, when the 'consumer' is supposedly king, but
there is a lot of truth in it. The point is not that public opinion is
unimportant, but the man in the street cannot understand the pros and cons of
every issue, and that is why we have MPs to examine the facts and arguments and
come to their own decisions. Too often nowadays this all goes by the board in
the interests of 'party discipline', and that is why it is so refreshing when,
as happened recently, our MPs vote for what they really believe.

PETER GILES

WHITCHURCH, SHROPSHIRE

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 15, 2005, Tuesday

LETTER: TERROR VOTE FOILS BLAIR ATTACK ON PARLIAMENT

BYLINE: COLIN STANDFIELD

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 121 words


Sir: Steve Richards says that the Prime Minister's warnings before the election
about terrorism were dismissed as spin and that 'Since then, he has been
tragically vindicated' (Opinion, 11 November).

Not at all: when Blair said those things, it was spin since he never mentioned
British terrorists, suicide bombers or simultaneous attacks on four points of
the London transport network. They were statements that he knew could only ever
be vindicated and never refuted.

I could just as easily say that there will be a murder in west London within the
foreseeable future. And I could all the more easily say it if I knew that some
action of mine two years ago might provoke it.

COLIN STANDFIELD

LONDON W7

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 15, 2005, Tuesday

LETTER: TERROR VOTE FOILS BLAIR ATTACK ON PARLIAMENT

BYLINE: ECCY DE JONGE LONDON WC1

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 88 words


Sir: Your letters pages are full of self-congratulation that Blair's proposal to
lock people up for 90 days has failed. Hold on a minute. Parliament did not
throw out the Bill: they merely changed the time the police can incarcerate
innocent people from 90 days to 28 days. This is still 21 days longer than they
could legally detain IRA suspects in the 1970s " and look what happened to the
Guildford Four, the Maguire Seven, the Birmingham Six. A credit to democracy? I
think not.

ECCY DE JONGE

LONDON WC1

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 15, 2005, Tuesday

LETTER: TERROR VOTE FOILS BLAIR ATTACK ON PARLIAMENT

BYLINE: P J STEWART

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 45 words


Sir: The Government's latest form of arm-twisting ('When the police turn to
lobbying Parliament', 14 November) is all the more outrageous when you recall
that police advice was ignored when the unenforceable hunting ban was pushed
through.

P J STEWART

OXFORD

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 16, 2005 Wednesday

UAE leader urges scholars to stand against terrorism after Amman attacks

LENGTH: 711 words


Text of report by United Arab Emirates Abu Dhabi TV on 16 November

Following his visit to those injured in Amman bombings today, His Highness Gen
Shaykh Muhammad Bin-Zayid Al Nuhayyan, heir apparent of Abu Dhabi and supreme
commander of the UAE Armed Forces, has said the Muslim scholars who live among
us must take a stand towards this terrorism. He added: If they [Muslim scholars]
do not declare them [terrorists] infidels, they should at least consider them
non-Muslims. He added that we must ask ourselves a real question and say that if
there are no honest stands towards these non-religious and inhumane operations,
these [attacks] will continue.

[Al Nuhayyan] I came here today to visit my brothers who survived this
operation. We offer condolences to them on their relatives who were killed. We
say there is no power but with God. This terrorism - [changes thought] we must
address a real question to ourselves and say if there are no honest stand
towards these non-religious, inhumane and irrational operations, they operations
will continue. To stop these operations - [changes thought] I personally blame
the men of religion. These operations were carried out by those who consider us
infidels. If our religion's scholars who live with us do not declare them
[terrorists] infidels, they should at least declare them non-Muslims. Today, in
our Arab society, we still do not believe that the person whose name I even do
not want to mention is the perpetrator of the operation. They make accusations
here and there. It is the criminals who carried out the operation and they
admitted that. Those who carried out the operation killed only our sons,
brothers, fathers and mothers. Thus, we offered our condolences today.
Therefore, our clerics and scholars must adopt a stand towards these people who
think that they have hijacked the religion and used it as a justification for
their acts.

[Al-Arabiya correspondent Sa'd al-Silawi] It is clear that the Islamic religion
has been hijacked by this group. But at the same time, what is required from the
Arab world and the international community to fight the phenomenon of terrorism
which has spread to Jordan, and we do not know how far it will reach tomorrow?

[Al Nuhayyan] I think that if there were no international and Arab stands -
[changes thought] terrorism has come bearing the name of Islam; terrorism came
carrying our names; so there is no need to throw it in another direction. If it
came carrying our name, it is our priority to confront and resist it. What logic
can explain what we saw today? What logic can explain that you kill a child, a
woman or an old person at a wedding party?

The Creator says: "If any one slew a person" [part of Koranic verse]. God said a
person; he did not specify whether it is a non-believer or Muslim. Today, we see
our Muslim brothers and kinfolk, and those who carried out this operation are
glad because they claimed responsibility for it. Unfortunately, many of our
people do not believe this because they give them the benefit of the doubt.
Brothers, this is a crime.

[Unidentified Abu Dhabi correspondent] Some link this with what is going on in
Iraq and say that these are the repercussions of what is going on in Iraq and in
other countries. How do you respond?

[Al Nuhayyan] In my personal view, whoever kills a human being has no problem
with killing a Muslim or non-Muslim. They asked one of them, namely Usamah
[Bin-Ladin]: Why did you slay Muslims in Tanzania? He said our dead are in
paradise and theirs are in hell. Is it he or the Creator who decides this? This
is a strange logic.

[Al-Arabiya correspondent Sa'd al-Silawi] It is a strange logic. Your visit
today offers support for your brother his majesty the king. What do you, Your
Highness, say to the Jordanians and to your brother his majesty the king?

[Al Nuhayyan] His majesty the king is a brother and a friend. Besides, Jordan is
a brotherly and friendly country and an ally. The Jordanians are our brothers.
We consider what has taken place in Jordan as if it had taken place in the
United Arab Emirates. I stress to the Jordanian people that we are their
brothers and that our stands are identical. [Video shows Shaykh Muhammad making
statements]

Source: Abu Dhabi TV, in Arabic 1700 gmt 16 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          November 16, 2005, Wednesday

GRAN'S WARNING AFTER KNIFE ATTACK TERROR;
 CRIME: THIEF THREATENS WOMAN WITH A SIX-INCH BLADE AND RIDES OFF WITH

BYLINE: BY BEN GRIFFIN CRIME REPORTER

SECTION: City Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 329 words

HIGHLIGHT: D29226_2. SHOOK UP... Grandmother Violet Ellice, aged 68, who was
attacked by a man wielding a knife during her daily bike ride along the Brinklow
Road in Binley. Picture: James Balfour


THIS is grandmother Violet Ellice who was threatened by a thief wielding a
six-inch knife as he tried to steal her bike.

The 68-year-old was attacked in Brinklow Road, Binley, near Coombe Abbey, on the
outskirts of Coventry, during her daily bike ride.

Now Mrs Ellice, who lives in Bull's Head Lane in Stoke, Coventry with husband
John, aged 72, has spoken out to warn others to be on their guard.

The retired staff nurse at Walsgrave Hospital had a puncture on her bike and was
pushing it along the pavement when the man pounced.

She said: "He just turned to me and said 'Give me your bike bitch'.

"He fetched a knife out and threatened me with it and I backed off. He took the
bike and started pedalling off.

"It shook me up. You lose sleep for several nights wondering what could have
happened."

As the man rode away Mrs Ellice flagged down passing cars. Seeing this, the
thief dropped the bike and ran into nearby woods after the incident, which
happened at 8.45am on Sunday, October 30.

The previous Friday Mrs Ellice and her husband, who have three grown up
children, including son Cameron, aged 35, two daughters and seven grandchildren,
had celebrated their golden wedding.

Mrs Ellice said she wanted people who cycled and jogged along Brinklow Road to
be wary.

She said: "People need to be aware of this chap. He never hurt me, but then
again you just never know what he could do. I am telling people just to be
careful and be alert."

And Mrs Ellice added: "I'd like to thank the people that stopped to help."

A spokeswoman for Warwickshire Police said: "We appeal to anyone who has any
information about this to come forward, in particular any of the passing
motorists who saw the incident."

The knifeman was white and about 5ft 9in. He had a medium build, was in his late
20s and had fair hair. He was wearing dark clothes.

Anyone with any information should telephone PC Callum McNaughton on 01788 541
111.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2005 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 17, 2005 Thursday

Security situation in Kosovo worsens due to "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 99 words


Text of report by Belgrade-based Radio B92 on 17 November

[Announcer] UNMIK [UN Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo] police
commissioner, Kai Vittrup, has said in Pristina that the security situation in
Kosovo has worsened due to a range of terrorist attacks against UNMIK and Kosovo
Police Service [KPS] personnel and vehicles.

He added that these terrorist attacks had been directed by those who want to
impose their solution of the Kosovo final status, adding that security forces
would decisively fight such terrorist activities.

Source: Radio B92, Belgrade, in Serbian 1400 gmt 17 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 18, 2005 Friday

Afghan paper brands terror as an attack against humanity

LENGTH: 319 words


Text of report by Afghan state-run newspaper Anis on 17 November

Yesterday morning a convoy of American forces came under suicide attack in
Kandahar leaving at least three people killed and many wounded. Two more
explosions in [southern] Paktika Province killed one American and five Afghan
police soldiers, and yet another two explosions in [western] Herat Province
inflicted heavy damages.

There is no doubt that with their actions in Kandahar, Paktika, and Herat, the
perpetrators of these explosions have not only provoked anger and hatred of the
people in these provinces against them and their foreign supporters, but have
also ignited the hatred of all peace-loving people of Afghanistan and the world.

Indeed, such brutal, inhuman and un-Islamic actions of the remnants of the
Taleban and al-Qa'idah can not falter the determination of our people in
following their chosen path. It, on the contrary, strengthens their resolve to
act decisively in every corner of the country to uproot terrorism, terrorists
and these professional killers.

It is clear to everyone as to why innocent humans are being slaughtered and
killed by people affiliated with terrorist groups, and who is behind these
tragedies and brutalities? This is because terrorists have been practically
defeated over the past four years, and so they see all windows of hope closing
on them. They put the killing of innocent people on their agenda in a bid to
overcome their disparity. They know that the ongoing process in Afghanistan is
against their interests, and that every passing day will only add to their
humiliation and misery.

Therefore, we can conclude that terrorist have opted to resort to terrorist
activities, planning explosions and suicide attacks against the country's
innocent and Muslim people  as the last means to quench their thirst of
animosity with humans, which will bear them no fruits.

Source: Anis, Kabul, in Dari 17 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            The Independent (London)

                            November 18, 2005 Friday
                                 First Edition

Terrorist's video threatens attacks

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 54 words


JAKARTA A masked man believed to be the terrorist Noordin Mohamed Top appeared
in a video found at his hide-out in Java, threatening attacks against the US's
allies in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Malaysian is allegedly a leader of Jemaah
Islamiyah, the al-Qa'ida-linked group thought to be behind four fatal bombings
in Indonesia.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Leamington Spa Courier

                               November 18, 2005

Victims tell of terror attack at temple

LENGTH: 518 words


Detectives probing violence at Leamington's Sikh temple are poised to make up to
50 arrests across the Midlands.

Trouble flared at a Diwali dinner on Saturday, with Warwick and Leamington MP
James Plaskitt among the injured.

Police have been studying CCTV footage and talking to community leaders to track
down the perpetrators.

Several websites campaigning against perceived disrespectful practices in the
religion are also being investigated.

Around 75 members of the Elderly Asian Men's Group were at their club next to
the temple in Queensway.

Shortly before 6pm, young men and teenagers allegedly stormed in to smash
furniture, overturn tables and throw punches. One reportedly stood on a chair to
film events.

Shocked Nin Sanghera, 37, of Kenilworth Road, was greeted by the sight of her
bloodied father Gajjan Singh, 67, staggering into the car park where she was
waiting to pick him up.

He suffered concussion and needed four stitches to a face wound and surgery for
a broken cheekbone.

Miss Sanghera, who was with daughter Annamica, seven, said: "My dad just
stumbled out. He had been beaten to a pulp and was losing consciousness by the
time we got him into an ambulance. He could have died."

Another elder was temporarily blinded after alcohol was poured over his head.
Two other men needed hospital treatment for cuts and bruises and dozens more
were injured.

Mr Plaskitt, who suffered swelling after a chair hurled across the room struck
him in the forehead, slammed the attackers as "extremely cowardly". He said:
"The men burst into the room shouting and chanting something which I didn't
understand. It quickly turned very ugly and violent. Tables and chairs were
overturned and punches were being thrown.

"A lot of furniture was flying around. One item struck me on the forehead. It
was a bit painful but my injury is quite irrelevant compared to those sustained
by others, which were much more serious."

Mr Plaskitt had addressed the party, also attended by members of the Gurdwara
Sahib temple's management committee. He later gave a statement to police

The club has been criticised for being too near to a place of worship to consume
alcohol and meat. This is among the grievances of Sikh hardliners who have been
campaigning to have traditional customs strictly observed at temples around the
country.

But Miss Sanghera said the two buildings were separate and urged the Asian
community to weed out the troublemakers.

She added: "This wasn't a minor incident, it's something that should be taken
extremely seriously by Mr Plaskitt and the police. "The community needs to stand
up to the people who did this and make statements if they have information. I
don't them to get away with it."

l A 47-year-old man has appeared in court charged with malicious wounding and
violent disorder. Jaswinder Singh Ubhi, of Coventry, appeared before Leamington
magistrates on Wednesday. He was remanded in custody for a week.

Both allegations relate to the Diwali dinner violence. The court heard police
are likely to make up to 50 arrests.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Western Mail

                          November 19, 2005, Saturday
                                 First Edition

Retro Report : Luxor terrorist attack leaves Britons dead

BYLINE: Tony Woolway Western Mail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 323 words


Luxor terrorist attack leaves Britons dead

AS many as eight Britons may have died in yesterday's terrorist gun attack on
holidaymakers in Egypt.

The Foreign Office said last night that six Britons were confirmed dead in the
massacre in the southern resort of Luxor.

Two more British people were said to be missing or unaccounted for after gunmen
opened fire on tourists and fought a three-hour gun battle with police.

British Consul Jenny Taylor has gone to Luxor and last night was still trying to
confirm the number of British victims.

A spokesman for the British Embassy in Cairo said, 'There are people unaccounted
for, unidentified bodies, but we don't know what nationalities they are. The
consul is talking to the hospitals, the authorities and tour companies and
offering comfort and assistance. We are hearing regularly from her. She is
trying to find out all the facts.'

News of British victims in the atrocity in which 70 people, including more than
60 foreigners, were killed came as British holidaymakers were being flown out of
Luxor because of the incident. Many of the dead are thought to be Japanese. The
attack was also thought to have left six terrorists and three policemen dead.

The Foreign Office in London said its concern was to ensure next of kin of the
British victims were informed. It will be some time before we can be sure that
has been done so we cannot confirm any further details at this stage, said an
official.

The Foreign Office advised UK travellers to avoid the area and issued two
emergency numbers for people concerned that relatives or friends might have been
caught up in the slaughter.

Until yesterday's atrocity, which was being blamed on Islamic extremists, the
Foreign Office was merely advising Britons visiting Egypt to be vigilant, but
after the attack near a temple on the west bank of the Nile holidaymakers were
warned to avoid the area and officials said Luxor was reported to be under
curfew.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sunday Herald

                               November 20, 2005

Torture by UK and US 'biggest human rights threat since Nazis';
WAR ON TERROR: THE LEGACY;
United Nations and Council of Europe attack coalition for war on terror policies
which are making the world a more dangerous place

BYLINE: By Neil Mackay Investigations Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1481 words



HIGHLIGHT: Manfred Nowak says the UN will continue investigations into
Guantanamo Bay 'whether we are allowed to or not'

Military police escort a prisoner at the US detention facility at Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba, where a hunger strike is now in its 101st day Photograph: EPA

'Slow death': Deghayes


BRITAIN and America have been attacked by the United Nations and the Council of
Europe for undermining democracy and making the world a more dangerous place.
Leaders of both organisations say the prosecution of the war on terror and use
of torture and degrading treatment of prisoners in Guantanamo Bay, Iraq and
Afghanistan has become the biggest threat to the rule of law and human rights
since the fall of Nazi Germany.

In exclusive interviews with the Sunday Herald, Manfred Nowak, the UN's special
rapporteur on torture, and the Council of Europe's commissioner for human
rights, Alvaro Gil-Robles, both dismantled the moral, legal, ethical and
political framework surrounding the coalition's behaviour in the war on terror
and the treatment of prisoners.

The broadside came as a joint conference by Amnesty International and Reprieve,
the organisation which provides defence lawyers for prisoners facing execution
and detainees in Guantanamo Bay, began in London to debate "the global struggle
against torture".

The conference, which runs until tomorrow, is being attended by lawyers from
around the world, representatives of the UN and the Council of Europe, released
prisoners from Guantanamo, the families of detainees and a host of
representatives from human rights organisations. High on the agenda - along with
illegal detention and torture - is the hunger strike by prisoners at Guantanamo
Bay which is now entering its 101st day, with at least 21 in hospital.

On Friday, America refused to give the UN permission for a fact-finding team to
interview detainees in Guantanamo.

Manfred Nowak said: "We expected and hoped the US government would understand
the importance of objective fact-finding.

"The US government has always made it clear to other countries that they should
comply with the UN. Now they are asking for an exemption. I find this
unacceptable and surprising from a democratic government."

Nowak "could not exclude" suspicions about why the US wanted to stop UN
investigators talking to prisoners. "The usual conclusion if a government does
not co-operate with the UN is that they have something to hide or are afraid we
will hear something they don't want us to. If they have nothing to hide, then it
is in their interest for us to check the accuracy of what they say is happening
in Guantanamo, " he said.

Nowak vowed the UN would continue its investigations "whether we are allowed in
or not". He added: "For a free and democratic society it is unusual to behave
like this. This behaviour is more usual in a non-democratic country. A free
society is usually transparent."

Referring to a recent request by the US vice-president, Dick Cheney, for the CIA
to be exempt from a proposed ban on the torture of terrorist suspects in US
custody, Nowak said: "One of the cornerstones of human rights is being put in
question. This is undermining the reputation of the US as a democratic country
based on the rule of law."

Nowak said he believed the prosecution of the war on terror was making the world
a more dangerous place and destroying the system of international human rights
legislation created as a reaction to the brutality of Nazi Germany.

"The fight against terror is making and creating situations which are both
dangerous and erode human rights, " Nowak said. "The framework of international
human rights which the UN has built up since 1945 is threatened when a
democratic country undermines the total prohibition on torture. The fight
against terrorism must be conducted in a framework of international human rights
law which has been developed over the last 60 years by the UN as a reaction to
national socialism.

"We don't have to give in to terrorists by undermining the rule of law and in
particular the absolute prohibition on torture and ill-treatment. This should
not be undermined by democratic states.

"The world is more dangerous: on the one hand due to terrorists, and on the
other due to actions taken in the fight against terrorism, which are violating
international human rights law."

Gil-Robles, who is speaking at the Amnesty/Reprieve conference, said the
treatment of terrorist prisoners "was unacceptable from all points of view and
in any circumstances".

Discussions about the acceptable limits of torture showed that America was
"stepping back from its international obligations", Gil-Robles said, adding:
"Torture is not an effective way of countering terrorism. Terrorism must be
countered in a way that respects the rule of law and human rights.

"Resorting to torture is a sign of decadence and of a democracy falling apart.
It is the method of dictatorship."

Gil-Robles said that the international community could not tolerate "black
holes"such as Guantanamo "where the rule of law did not apply".

He said that other practices - such as extraordinary rendition, which sees
terrorist suspects kidnapped and then flown by the CIA to countries including
Egypt to be tortured - "were so far beyond anything that the rule of law permits
that they are completely unacceptable".

THE British government colludes in renditions by allowing CIA jets ferrying
captives around the world to stop over at UK airports to refuel. Glasgow and
Prestwick are the two favoured stop-overs.

Gil-Robles appealed for coalition powers "to return to the principles and values
of the democratic society that we have been trying to create since the second
world war ended".

"We can forcefully deal with terrorism and still respect the rule of law, " he
said. "The democratic model is at stake here. What is happening strikes at the
very core of the idea of the society we wish to live in."

Gil-Robles says he believes that in Europe "nothing irreversible has been
undertaken so far", pointing to the recent defeat of the Labour government on a
policy to detain terrorist suspects for up to 90 days as proof that European
parliaments will "stop an executive that tries to go too far".

On the US, however, he said: "America has gone too far in the methods it is
prepared to sanction in the war on terror. It gravely undermines the moral
authority of those waging the purported war on terror."

He said a discussion on CIA exemptions from the ban on torture was "an
extraordinary debate for a civilised society to have".

"From the context of established democracies, we are now at the worst moment for
the defence of human rights since the fall of national socialism, " Gil-Robles
added.

Treating prisoners inhumanely meant "the war is lost before it's even started",
he said. "We display a lack of confidence in our values before those who are
trying to undermine them. Respecting democracy and human rights does not make
you vulnerable to terrorism.

"Democracy cannot be defended by resorting to the barbarism of torture. We can't
violate democracy in the name of democracy."

GUANTANAMO BAY HUNGER STRIKERS ARE DETERMINED TO DIE . . . UNLESS FREED

SOME 210 Guantanamo detainees have entered their 101st day of hunger strike.

They are committed to starving themselves to death in protest against their
indefinite detention.

One of the hunger strikers, Shaker Aamer, a Saudi-born British resident with
four children in London, forwarded a statement to the Sunday Herald outlining
his wish to die rather than go on living in Guantanamo - a place dubbed "the
American gulag".

Aamer, who is one of the hunger strike co-ordinators, has dropped from 17st
12lbs to 9st 4lbs. "I am dying here every day, mentally and physically, " he
wrote. "This is happening to all of us. Rather than humiliate myself, I would
rather hurry up a process that is going to happen anyway."

He is represented by the acclaimed British human rights lawyer Clive
StaffordSmith, who says that the hunger strikers are being brutally force-fed.
"They are strapped down by their ankles, waist and head, have a tube put up
their nose and into their stomach and it is kept in for 24 hours a day, " says
Stafford-Smith. "It is unconscionable."

Aamer's detention has led to kidney and lung problems, arthritis, permanent eye
damage, tinnitus, skin disease, ulcers and mental problems.

"I would just like to die quietly by myself, " he wrote.

"I want to make it easy on everyone. I want no feeding. No forced tubes, no
'help'. This is my legal right."

In another statement, UK resident Omar Deghayes said he was on hunger strike
because "we are dying a slow death in here. You have to remember that we have
not been charged with any crime. I do not understand what America is doing."

The hunger strikers are also protesting against the continued detention of
prisoners who should have been liberated after they were found innocent through
the Combatant Status Review Tribunals, and at the detention of children in
Guantanamo Bay. StaffordSmith says that one of his clients was just 14 when he
was detained.

Deghayes was blinded in one eye during a beating from camp guards. Another
inmate had his back broken and is now in a wheelchair.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNHER


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                           November 24, 2005 Thursday

Gang attack terror in cab

BYLINE: Rhiannon Beacham

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 333 words


A woman has been horrifically abused on a black cab ride home in Swansea.

Detectives have been called in to find four men who shared an early morning ride
with her.

She was reportedly subjected to a torrent of obscene acts and verbal abuse on
the short journey home.

She had caught the cab in The Kingsway after a night out.

The men climbed in as well on what should have been a quick five-minute trip to
the Uplands area of Swansea.

Investigating officers today appealed for the driver of the taxi to come forward
in the hope he can assist with their inquiries.

Details of exactly what is alleged to have happened are still being pieced
together.

But it is being described as serious by the investigation team.

A South Wales Police spokesman said the black five-seater Hackney carriage
picked up all five people in The Kingsway.

He said it was alleged that the woman  was then subjected to the obscene acts
and verbal abuse as the taxi was being driven to the Uplands area.

The woman got out of the taxi in Uplands, but the four men remained inside and
were taken to another unknown location. Police are speaking to taxi drivers in
their attempt to  track down the Hackney driver.

The police spokesman said: "We would like to stress that the investigation into
the behaviour of these men is currently ongoing.

"Therefore, we urge the taxi driver to contact Swansea Central CID and give his
account of what he knows about the incident.

"We cannot comment further on the behaviour that the victim was subject to as it
is a matter of police investigation.

"We would, as a matter of urgency, like to speak to the driver to find out more
about the incident.

"We also want to reassure the public that this was a rare and isolated incident
and we will catch the people responsible as soon as we can.

"We do, however, need to  explore all scenarios.''

The taxi driver and anyone else who might have information in relation to the
incident is asked to contact police on 01792 450618 or Crimestoppers anonymously
on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            November 25, 2005 Friday

CalMac cite fear of terrorist attack for not disclosing layout of ferry

BYLINE: Paul Gallagher

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 370 words


Calmac has refused to give out details about the layout of one of its ferries in
case it could put it at risk of a terrorist attack.

The decision came in response to a request for the information from a
Campbeltown businessman.

Russ McLean, chief executive of the Argyll Group plc, asked CalMac to reveal
plans of its MV Bute ferry, under the Freedom of Information Act.

But the company refused, as plans were already available on its website. After
Mr McLean sought a review to gain more detailed information, CalMac stood its
ground and invoked an exemption to the act, maintaining that revealing the plans
could endanger the health and safety of passengers and crew.

It also claimed that disclosure could be against its own commercial interests
and those of another company, which provided the plans for the boat.

The Freedom of Information Commissioner, Kevin Dunion, accepted CalMac's
argument that giving information on restricted areas of a vessel could
jeopardise the boat's security. These included locations of machinery,
ventilation, fuel storage and crew accommodation.

He ruled that the firm had complied with the act by withholding the plans from
Mr McLean.

However, he also found that it had failed to abide by the act in not providing
Mr McLean with advice and assistance on his request. He also dismissed CalMac's
claims of potential commercial risk.

Mr McLean revealed earlier this year that he was considering going into
competition with CalMac on routes running to and from Mull, Bute and Arran. He
aimed to do so through his subsidiary company, Arran Ferries Ltd.

The process for tendering CalMac's west coast services, required under EU rules,
is now under way, after the deadline for expressions of interest passed last
month.

It is not known if Arran Ferries is among the companies which have made a
submission.

Mr Dunion states that the plans show areas subject to monitoring and controlled
access under shipping security regulations. He adds: "I accept Caledonian
MacBrayne's argument (is) that release of the plans would increase the
vulnerability of the MV Bute, its passengers and crew to terrorist or similar
acts."

A CalMac spokesman said the company accepted the judgment and considered the
matter closed.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                           November 26, 2005 Saturday

Student tells of her terror in city flats lobby attack

BYLINE: Karen Allan

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 240 words


A Student attacked in a communal lobby in a block of Aberdeen flats spoke of the
terrifying assault.

Dorette Donald, 24, arrived in the city on Tuesday to visit a friend and to get
a break from studying in London.

Ms Donald is now going to cut short her visit to the city after Thursday's
attack.

She said: "I was standing speaking to a neighbour, talking about the weather for
about a minute, and I noticed that someone was standing behind me. I didn't take
it as anything as I obviously don't know all the people in the building.

"As soon as the neighbour walked off and I came into the lobby, he pulled my
coat and I turned around. He mentioned something about money and I started
screaming, and I must have started to get away.

"He pulled my hair and he started beating me.

"I was screaming and screaming with the intention that the neighbour would come
back.

"Then he just let go and went away. I'm feeling really scared.

"Last night, I was thinking it was a random attack, but this morning when I woke
up I was worried in case he comes back - what if he has been watching me?

"I think I might go back to London on Saturday."

The man is described as being in his late 20s or early 30s, 5ft 8in to 5ft 9in,
of slim build with black hair. He was wearing a dark  hoodie-style top at the
time, and spoke with an Aberdeen accent.

Anyone with information is asked to contact the police on 0845 600 5 700, or
anonymously on CrimeStoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            November 27, 2005 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

10 DIE IN IRAQ TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 142 words


A SUICIDE attacker in Iraq killed six yesterday when he drove his car into a
crowded station, 60 miles north of Baghdad.

A dozen people were injured and nine cars were destroyed in the blast. In
central Baghdad, a car bomb killed four civilians.

The US Army has now confirmed the death of a US Marine, who was killed by a
roadside bomb in western Iraq on Friday.

Dealing a blow to the terror network, the Army also confirmed the death of a top
aide to the leader of local al-Qaeda fighters, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi.

The US claims Abu Ubaydah was killed in a raid last month in Ramadi.

Stepping up the war on terror elsewhere, Tony Blair met the Pakistani Prime
Minister Shaukat Aziz in Malta to talk about the prospects of large numbers of
foreign terrorists flowing into Britain from Pakistan.

The leaders vowed to increase co-operation between the two countries.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 28, 2005 Monday

Customs official wounded in "terrorist attack" in Georgia's separatist Abkhazia

LENGTH: 245 words


Text of report by Abkhaz news agency Apsnypress

Sukhumi, 28 November: An employee of the state customs committee has been
wounded in a terrorist attack in Gali District.

The explosion occurred on Sunday morning, 27 November. Givi Tsulaia was heading
for his office, a customs checkpoint in the village of Tagiloni near the
Georgian-Abkhaz border.

State customs committee chairman Grigoriy Yenik told Apsnypress that a
remote-controlled homemade explosive device had been placed on the roadside.
"The fact that a bus carrying local people was allowed to pass unimpeded, while
a car carrying an Abkhaz customs official was blown up indicates that [Tsulaia]
was the target. It is a miracle that our employee survived," said Grigoriy
Yenik, adding that "despite wounds to his stomach and leg, Tsulaia kept on
driving. He drove 50 m. away from the scene and opened fire from his gun, thus
preventing the terrorists from approaching him."

The wounded customs official is in hospital. His life is not in danger.

Georgian media reports saying that Tsulaia took part in the Georgian-Abkhaz war
are false. He was just 11 at the time. Givi Tsulaia was born in 1981. He
graduated from Maykop state institute of technology. After serving in the Abkhaz
army he went on to serve in the state guard service and then in the ministry of
defence. He joined the state customs committee a month ago. He is married and
has two small children.

Source: Apsnypress, Sukhumi, in Russian 1145 gmt 28 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 28, 2005 Monday

Romanian TV says security services "unfolded" possible terror attack

LENGTH: 463 words


Text of report by Romanian TV on 28 November

[Presenter] Romania has drawn the attention of terrorist organizations. The
Romanian Intelligence Service [Serviciu Roman de Informatii - SRI] unfolded a
possible terrorist attack in the capital [Bucharest]. Several Pakistani citizens
have been expelled from our country for [alleged] links with Al-Qa'idah. The
operation has been made public by the military analyst Radu Tudor in [the daily]
Jurnalul National.

[Correspondent] The Romanian Intelligence Service carried out the operation two
weeks after the terrorist attack in London. At that time, several Pakistani
nationals arrived in Romania without having a clear objective. They told the
border police officers that they wanted to enter Romania for tourism. The
Romanian authorities became suspicious the moment they spotted the fact that
some of the Pakistani citizens were coming from the United Arab Emirates. One
discovered that the suspects had false [travel] documents, most of them issued
by a travel agency based in London. The Romanian Intelligence Services
immediately decided to place four of them under round the clock surveillance.

[SRI spokesman Marius Bercaru, over the phone] They were placed under
surveillance immediately after entering Romanian territory. By using technical
means, one officer succeeded to identify the taxi driver that drove them, the
address, in fact, two addresses, where they lodged.

[Correspondent] During their fourth day under surveillance, the suspects went
downtown. The SRI officers were in for a big surprise as two Pakistanis carrying
back-packs went to an underground station.

[Bercarul] Every moment the Romanian Intelligence Service's personnel were ready
to prevent a terrorist attack.

[Reporter] Were they ready to shoot them?

[Bercaru] They were ready to use those means that are specific for intelligence
activities so that we will avoid a terrorist attack.

[Military analyst Radu Tudor] This was a reconnaissance mission, rather. If they
had any hint that the secret services did not know about their mission, maybe
they would have acted. They may have stayed longer in Romania and acted. It is
obvious that this was - at least - a reconnaissance mission.

[Correspondent] The special agents discovered that two of the Pakistani citizens
also had travel visas for Cuba. The secret services suspect that they may have
wanted to reach the Guantanamo prison where prisoners captured in Iraq and
Afghanistan are being held.

Some suspects left Romania while others have been expelled. It is believed that
the Pakistani citizens were members of the "Karachi" organization belonging to
the Al- Qa'idah organization from Saudi Arabia, the country were Usamah
Bin-Ladin was born.

Source: Romania 1 TV, Bucharest, in Romanian 1700 gmt 28 Nov 05

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               November 29, 2005

Woman tells of terror as racist thugs attack group

BYLINE: Claire Regan

LENGTH: 367 words


A Belfast woman last night told of her terror as her partner and younger brother
were beaten up by a gang of racists.

Michelle Daniels (25) and her brother Roy (18), who are of Burmese descent, were
leaving a nightclub on Belfast's Dublin Road with her boyfriend Thomas Whiteside
and Roy's pregnant fiancee Gail (18), when a group of men began shouting racist
abuse.

As the group walked away from the nightclub shortly before 1am on Sunday, a
bottle was thrown at them.

"We turned around then and saw a group of five or six men running towards us.
Thomas and Roy started to run," Michelle said.

"The men had earlier been shouting things like 'nigger', 'punjab patrol' and
other racist remarks at me and Roy.

"Thomas said to them there was 'no need for that' and one apologised. We thought
that was the end of it, until we heard the bottle smashing."

The gang caught up with Thomas and Roy in nearby Salisbury Street and set upon
them both.

"Thomas was knocked out cold with the first blow," Michelle said.

"They stamped on his head, kicked him in the face and beat him all over his
body. Roy was a bit luckier in that he stayed conscious so was able to curl up
in a wee ball and protect himself a bit.

"Meanwhile, two girls with them were having a go at me and Gail. I told them she
was pregnant and one of them shouted 'I'll kick the baby out of you'. We were
absolutely petrified."

Thomas suffered 37 cuts to his head, a gash under one eye that needed four
stitches, a suspected broken nose, chipped teeth and substantial bruising, while
Roy suffered a dislocated elbow, broken wrist, bruising and a gash to his leg.

Michelle and Gail were not harmed physically.

Michelle said she was left "completely traumatised".

"When I found Thomas lying in the road he looked like he was gone. They left him
for dead, it's a miracle he's still alive," she added.

"There's no doubt this was a racist attack, especially after the verbal abuse we
got."

Police appealed for information on the attack to be reported to detectives at
Lisburn Road on 0845 600 8000.

A PSNI spokeswoman said officers were looking at a "possible racist motive" for
the attack.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Newspaper

               © Copyright 2005 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           November 29, 2005, Tuesday
                             NW Merseyside Edition

Firefighters rehearse terror attack drill among Italian art treasures

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 34 words


Italian firefighters wearing protective suits enter the Pitti Palace art gallery
in Florence yesterday, during a simulated nerve gas attack by terrorists. The
gallery houses paintings by Titian and Raphael

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               November 29, 2005

Police accused after brother and sister are cleared of failing to tell of
bombing plan: Would-be suicide attacker wrote of violent jihad: Anti-terrorism
officers failed to investigate

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd and Owen Bowcott

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 588 words


A British man who joined a suicide bomb mission at an Israeli bar wrote a note
about jihad which anti-terrorism officers found four months before the attack,
at a London property controlled by a suspected Muslim extremist, the Guardian
has learned.

But anti-terrorism officers made no investigation into Omar Sharif after
discovering the note in January 2003. The note also contained his home phone
number and email address.

Yesterday Sharif's brother and sister were cleared at the Old Bailey of failing
to tell the authorities about his plan to murder Israeli civilians. Months
before the discovery of the note Israel had asked Britain to be extra vigilant
for suicide bombers being recruited in Britain, Israeli sources told the
Guardian.

The attack took place on April 30 2003 when Sharif, from Derby, and Asif Hanif,
from west London, recruited by Hamas, walked into Mike's Place, a bar in Tel
Aviv, with explosives strapped to their bodies. Hanif's bomb killed three
people, and injured and maimed 65. Sharif's device failed to go off. He was
found dead a fortnight later in the sea off Israel.

Yesterday Sharif's sister Parveen and brother Zahid, both from Derby, were
cleared after becoming the first people to be prosecuted under a provision of
the Terrorism Act that makes it an offence not to disclose information about an
impending terrorist attack to the police. They had stood trial twice after a
jury failed to agree at a previous trial. At that trial, in July 2004, Omar
Sharif's wife, Tahira Tabassum, was acquitted of a similar offence.

Supporters of Zahid and Parveen Sharif said they should never have been
prosecuted. Their anger was exacerbated by the news that the police had
apparently missed clues about Omar Sharif's slide into violence. The note
written by Sharif was recovered in a raid on a property controlled by a man whom
authorities in Britain and other western countries suspected of involvement in
terrorism. He cannot be named for legal reasons.

Sharif is believed to have sent an essay about jihad to the suspected Islamic
extremist. A note bearing his name says: "It is about jihad as part of a
methodology to establish the Islamic state." Sharif said he had already handed
his essay to a publishing house, which he named, and which is suspected by
counterterrorism officials of links to terrorist groups.

A British counterterrorism source said: "Until the attack happened there was no
investigation on this in the anti-terrorism branch." Another source said
Sharif's name had been logged, but no active work had been carried out into
whether he posed any threat.

Massoud Shadjareh, of the Islamic Human Rights Commission, said: "People will
find it astonishing that while the family has been put through hell, the
authorities themselves had information which they never followed up, and they
are not accountable for their errors."

Outside court yesterday Zahid Sharif said: "We did not know what our brother was
going to do. It shocked us as much as everyone else and we are still shocked."

The crown's case had relied on two emails which the prosecution claimed Zahid
and Parveen Sharif could only have made sense of if they knew what he was
planning before he left Britain. But Parveen, a teacher, told the court: "That
is such a sick idea. I did not want Tahira to be a widow or their kids to be
fatherless."

After the attacks on the Israeli bar the radical Islamist cleric Omar Bakri
Mohammed said both men had attended lectures he gave.


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          November 30, 2005, Wednesday
                               South City Edition

Families flee in raid terror;
CRIME: Masked men attack guard outside toy shop

BYLINE: Lisa Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 208 words


PARENTS with young children fled in panic as two masked men attacked a security
guard outside a busy Solihull toy shop, stealing his cash box.

The Toys R Us store on the Marshall Lake retail park was packed with
pre-Christmas shoppers when the robbers ambushed the Securicor van, punching the
guard in the face at 5.30pm yesterday.

A police spokesman said a 38year-old guard had just left the store with a cash
box when he was attacked by two men, whose faces were covered.

One was described as 5ft 10ins, in his 20s and of medium build, while the other
was about 6ft 2ins tall. Both were wearing dark clothing.

They fled with the cash box, which contained an undisclosed amount of money, in
a silver Alfa Romeo registration BL54 OCM, which was last seen speeding away
from the junction of Blossomfield Road and Dingle Lane.

DC Craig Brewer, of Solihull Police, said the incident was the latest in a
string of such raids across the borough although this one was not being linked.

Other recent incidents included a raid on security vans at the Morrison store in
Castle Bromwich, Chester Road on November 28 and one outside Barclays Bank in
Marston Green on November 24.

Any witnesses to any of the incidents are urged to contact Solihull CID on 0845
113 5000

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Wellington Weekly News

                          November 30, 2005 Wednesday

Thugs jailed for terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 601 words


A violent young thug from Milverton is behind bars this week for his part in a
terrifying two-day attack on a resident inside his own home.

Anthony Hutton, aged 20, of Creedwell Court, has begun a two-year prison
sentence for walking into the man's flat and beating him repeatedly with a
wooden plank.

The brutal assault left 32-year-old Martin Beale in hospital, requiring stitches
for a gash to the back of his head and suffering cuts and bruises to his face
and back.

Taunton Crown Court heard on Friday how Hutton had joined another man, Scott
Bristow, for the final part of a terror campaign against Mr Beale.

Bristow was also jailed.

Bristow, aged 23, of no fixed address, began the late-night attacks following
accusations that Mr Beale had groped his girlfriend's bottom.

The court heard that at 1.30am on July 2 Bristow went to Mr Beale's ground-floor
flat in Lyngford Crescent, Taunton, to confront him over the accusations. When
Mr Beale answered the door he was punched in the face and Bristow said: "That is
for touching my girlfriend's ass."

Mr Beale was then pushed into his home and punched again.

Three days later, at around 2am, Mr Beale was in bed at home when he was
startled by banging on the door.

Fearing another attack from Bristow, he decided to lie low and wait for him to
go, but moments later he heard windows in his flat being smashed.

When Mr Beale went to see what had happened he saw Bristow leaning through a
hole in one of the windows, demanding to speak to him.

Bristow assured Mr Beale that he was on his own, but when Mr Beale opened the
door three other men were waiting with Bristow.

The men stormed the flat and Bristow punched Mr Beale in the head before
leaving. Mr Beale then locked his front door, but half an hour later Bristow
returned a third time - this time with Hutton.

The young men had armed themselves with 2ft planks of wood, taken from a broken
bunk bed outside Mr Beale's flat, and were demanding to be let in.

As Mr Beale opened the door they pushed him inside and began to beat him across
the head and back.

After repeated blows, Bristow told Mr Beale he had to be dealt a final blow to
the head if he wanted the attack to end.

Seeing no other way out, Mr Beale gave in to the thugs' violent demand and,
after hitting him, they left his home.

The court heard that when Hutton and Bristow were arrested Bristow told police
Mr Beale was "a nonce", adding: "I'll tell you the story - he has been touching
up my girlfriend."

The defence told the court that Bristow was a troubled young man who had battled
drug and alcohol addiction and had been homeless since he was 14.

Hutton was described as an "impressionable" and "immature" young man whose
family were shocked by what had happened. A non-custodial sentence was
requested.

The men both admitted charges of assault occasioning actual bodily harm and were
given credit for guilty pleas.

But Judge Graham Hume Jones said they would not escape a prison sentence. "You
are both young men who, for whatever reason, took to targeting this man and in
effect took the law into your own hands, " he told them.

"You (Bristow) went to his house three times in the early hours and on the third
occasion Anthony Hutton went along as some sort of back-up.

"This man was minding his own business in his own home and was beaten up not
just with fists but with parts of a bed. No-one can possibly say that a
non-custodial sentence can be justified. People are entitled to be in their
homes without fear of being attacked."

Bristow was jailed for two years and ten months, with the 40 days he had spent
in custody deducted from the sentence.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 Wellington Weekly News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                December 1, 2005
                              Correction Appended

G2: A gang of uniformed men burst on to an Irish ferry and announce that they
have siezed control. A terrorist attack? No - that's how the crew learned they
were being fired. Steve Morris on the siege of the Isle of Inishmore

BYLINE: Steve Morris

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1879 words


The operation was organised with military precision. As the two ships neared
port, groups of men quietly slipped into the vessels' bathrooms and swapped
their civilian clothes for dark uniforms and padded jackets. Back out on deck,
they took up their pre-arranged positions. It was coolly announced over the
Tannoys that these men in dark uniforms would henceforth be in charge of
security on the vessels.

Believing the ships under attack, some crew members raced for cover; one group
of officers sealed themselves into a secure engine control room. The officers
were still there last night, a week on, refusing to budge. Both ships have now
effectively been taken hostage by their crews.

The raid, it turned out, was no act of modern piracy; neither was it a terrorist
attack. In was, in fact, a hijack of a very different nature, the latest,
extraordinary, chapter in a bitter industrial dispute on the Irish Sea.

The basic facts are these: Irish Ferries, which runs ships between Britain and
Ireland, wants rid of 543 of its workers. It wants to replace them with cheaper
workers, mainly from eastern Europe, and for pretty obvious reasons, the
existing workers, and those concerned with the import of cheap labour from
overseas, do not think it is such a great idea. The security guards were
smuggled on board the ships to make sure that the handover to the new, cheaper
crew went smoothly.

This conflict is rather more than a little local difficulty. Questions have been
asked in the Irish parliament and a national day of protest is planned. There
are dire warnings from trade unions that the dispute could ruin almost 20 years
of good industrial relations. There are growing fears that the dispute could
have implications for the shipping industry across Europe, perhaps even for
land-based industry too. And there is more at stake than 543 jobs: this may
spell the end for that most traditional, and romantic, of British workers - the
ordinary merchant seaman.

One of the officers holed up in the engine control room of the 34,000-tonne Isle
of Inishmore is 46-year-old marine engineering officer John Curry. He went into
the engine room to protect the ship from supposed attack; he has stayed in
protest at what was actually going on. "This is not just about us and our jobs,"
says the father of four, speaking to the Guardian from the engine room on a
mobile phone. "It's much wider than that. If this company is allowed to get rid
of its workers in one fell swoop, then what's going to stop other countries
across Europe doing the same?"

The drama that led to the siege of the Inishmore and her sister ship, the
Ulysses, began as the two vessels neared the British mainland a week ago. The
Ulysses was headed for Holyhead; the Inishmore was making for Pembroke dock.
While the ferry workers began their well-drilled docking routines, groups of men
who had been travelling as foot passengers made their way to the bathrooms. They
emerged a few minutes later in security guard uniforms - "a bit like Superman",
one Irish Ferries' management source jokes. The crew members were not amused.
Some were downright scared. Since September 11, they have been repeatedly told
that they could be targeted by terrorists and they have been trained in what to
do in the event of an attack. "We really were intimidated by these men," says
Gary Jones, the Inishmore's electrical officer. "We hadn't got a clue who they
were or what they were about. Could they be terrorists? We just didn't know."

As the security guards took up posts around the Inishmore, a group of four
officers raced below the waterline into the ship's windowless engine control
room, from which most of the vessel's vital systems can be operated. They sealed
the doors behind them and tried to find out what was going on.

It soon became clear. A replacement crew, mainly workers from Latvia and Estonia
employed through an agency in Cyprus, was being moved on to the ship. After the
Inishmore was tied up at Pembroke dock in south Wales, the new crew was promptly
bussed on board. A similar scene was taking place at Holyhead in north Wales,
where the 51,000-tonne Ulysses, the biggest car ferry in the world, had docked.

"It hadn't been a great voyage," says the chief officer, Alan Taylor, from on
board the Ulysses. "We were four hours late because of the bad weather. As we
were approaching Holyhead, a manager who was on board informed us that by the
time we reached the dock we would see guards taking over the security of the
vessel and later the first of the new agency workers would be bussed on board."
Officers decided to take up positions on the bridge; they were resolved to stop
the vessel moving off again with its new crew. "We were shocked to begin with,"
says Taylor. "We didn't know what to expect of the security guards and had
visions of being dragged off the ship."

The crew had long expected Irish Ferries to try something. In mid-September, the
company announced that it was seeking redundancies among its workers in the
Irish Sea. It would replace them with agency crews who would work for less money
and under different conditions. Irish Ferries refuses to discuss how much it
intends to pay the new crew, but the figure that is bandied around - which the
company does not deny - is around half the Irish minimum wage of euros 7.65
(£5.20) an hour.

The company also made clear that it wished to ditch the Irish flag under which
it operates and work under the flag of Cyprus, a move which would make it much
harder for the British and Irish authorities to monitor crews' pay and working
conditions. (Such manoeuvres are common among ship-owning companies.) Irish
Ferries remains bullish about its plan. It argues that rising fuel costs, the
abolition of duty-free, the growth of cheap flights and the drop in tourists
taking their cars to the Republic of Ireland means it has to make cuts.
Moreover, it claims that 95% of its competitors are using "outsourced" crews and
flying non-EU flags. Irish Ferries itself already uses agency crews on its ferry
the MV Normandie, which operates between Ireland and France under the flag of
the Bahamas.

But knowing that something might be afoot did nothing to prepare the crews for
what happened next. Nor did it prepare Irish Ferries for the aftermath. A week
has gone by, and still both ships are held by their crews.

"It's been a unique experience, though not one I'd like to repeat," says Curry,
holed up on board the Inishmore. "It's a bit like living in a bank vault or the
control room in a power station. There's lots of electronic equipment and
monitoring screens. It's the heart and brains of the ship. We have control over
things like ventilation and propulsion. It would have been easy for us to make
things uncomfortable on board by shutting off power and ventilation, but we
haven't gone down that avenue."

Curry and his three comrades are unsure how things are going to play out. "When
we first went in we were sat there wondering if they would try to break the door
down. I've only been getting around two hours of sleep a night. Every time you
hear a sound outside you wake up. There's not that much to eat - just a few
sandwiches - but, luckily, we haven't felt that hungry because we've been so
worried." He says the men are determined to make their point. "Irish Ferries is
acting like a company out of the dark ages - it's the Tolpuddle Martyrs school
of industrial relations."

On Tuesday, during an emergency debate in the Irish parliament (the first since
the foot and mouth crisis), opposition employment spokesman Phil Hogan went
further. "This debate is about a greedy and grubby company that is intent on
maximising profits," he said. "It is not just seeking a cheap labour force but
seeking a criminally cheap labour force."

The unions are in no doubt about the significance of the dispute. The Irish
Congress of Trade Unions has voted to back a national day of protest on December
9, and its general secretary, David Begg, says: "This is a matter of serious
public concern - it could determine what sort of society we are creating for our
children. We can decide to adopt a threshold of decency below which we will not
go. Or we can base our future growth on gross exploitation of vulnerable and
often desperate workers."

British unions say that the Irish Ferries affair could well be the thin end of
the wedge. "Other shipowners are itching to follow Irish Ferries' shameful
example, and it is essential that trade unionists unite across national
boundaries to stop them," says the RMT's national secretary, Steve Todd. The RMT
also complains that the new crew may be paid poorly and forced to work under
harsh conditions. It highlights two cases of foreign workers with Irish Ferries
whose cases emerged earlier this year.

In one case, 44-year-old Salvacion Orge, a single mother-of-three from the
Philippines, claimed she was working 12-hour shifts as a beautician on the
Inishmore for just euros 1.08 (74p) an hour. The company called it an
"aberration" and blamed the agency that employed her. In the second case, Oksana
Karamjana, a 25-year-old Latvian, claimed she was getting euros 34 ( £23) for a
12-hour shift on an Irish Ferries vessel. "It was a terrible job," she says.
"You felt so trapped. Most of the time I was not allowed on dry land. You
worked, you slept, you worked, you slept."

John McDonnell, the Labour MP for Hayes and Harlington and a campaigner on
shipping issues, says the significance for British seafarers is immense. "Jobs
have been disappearing over the past few years. If Irish Ferries is able to do
this, it will mean other companies looking at doing the same."

It is certainly true that jobs for British merchant seamen are becoming rarer.
In the past few years, the number of ratings - ordinary crew members - has
dropped from 30,000 to 10,000. Twenty years ago 1,800 British merchant seamen
sailed out of Harwich. Now only about 60 do so. Some say it is the way of the
world - that seafaring is the ultimate globalised industry, and that British
seafarers are inevitably going to suffer while they expect higher wages than
their counterparts from, for example, the far east.

Others insist that there ought to be some protection for them, and that ferries
which do nothing but sail between two states - such as Britain and Ireland -
ought to come under the control of one of them. The European Commission drew up
a draft directive in 1998 proposing just that, but no agreement could be reached
and the proposal was withdrawn last year.

Meanwhile, Irish Ferries' chief executive, Eamonn Rothwell, who is said to be
worth more than £17m and lives in a mansion in the smart resort of Blackrock, Co
Dublin, insists the issue is "life or death" for the company. "It's about the
right of freight and passenger customers - and the Irish tourist industry - to
low-fare carriers on the Irish Sea," he says.

For the four seamen still holed up in the Inishmore's engine control room, it is
about much more than customer rights, of course. But however long they hold out,
and however the ongoing negotiations with management proceed, it seems unlikely
that Irish Ferries is going to give in on this one *


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 8, 2005

CORRECTION: * A feature on the dispute at Irish Ferries stated that the ferry,
Isle of Inishmore, was moored at Pembroke dock giving the impression it was in
the old town of Pembroke (A gang of uniformed men, etc, page 14, G2, December
1). The ferry port is a town called Pembroke Dock, a short distance from
Pembroke, which is on a separate inlet.

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 2, 2005 Friday

US pull-out from Iraq could lead to increased terror attacks - Portuguese daily

LENGTH: 376 words


Text of article by Joao Morgado Fernandes: "Victory in Iraq", published by
Portuguese newspaper Diario de Noticias website on 2 December

Pressed by a fall in the opinion polls and increasing demands to bring the
troops home, George W. Bush this week presented his strategy for "victory in
Iraq".

The document is full of good intentions and even some common sense (beginning
with the refusal to set a timescale), but in which there is no indication of how
the Americans are trying to bring about what they propose. Obviously, bearing in
mind the presuppositions behind the invasion, the American troops can only leave
Iraq by handing over power to a democratically-elected government which
guarantees minimum conditions of stability and cohesion for the mosaic of ethnic
and religious groups which makes up the country. This is, in spite of
everything, the easiest thing. Iraq already has a constitution and it has even
managed to hold elections in conditions which were rather more reasonable than
is normal in that part of the world. These ethnic divisions are perhaps waiting
for precisely the US military withdrawal to break with the shaky coexistence of
the last few months.

But all this - the country's democracy and stability - is terribly dependent on
the greater threat of terrorism. The USA knows, as Bush recognized this week,
that it cannot leave to its fate a country which has become a breeding ground
and training camp for terrorists.

The invasion of Iraq, we must remember, was done as part of a necessary,
although disproportionate, fight against terrorism, but almost three years on
the attacks continue and the world is only no more dangerous because the
presence of American troops in the country serves as an attractive lightning
conductor. One wonders, however, what will happen in the world, beginning with
Europe, when the USA withdraws the troops or when their presence loses symbolic
weight?

The attacks this summer in London and the story of a Belgian suicide bomber,
announced this week, prove the existence between Iraq and Europe of a corridor
of terror with unpredictable consequences.

Winning the Iraq war involves controlling, and if possible destroying, this
corridor.

Source: Diario de Noticias website, Lisbon, in Portuguese 2 Dec 05

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            December 2, 2005 Friday

Police hold Islamic terrorist suspects after bomb attack;
World at a glance

SECTION: LSE 04; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 535 words


. BANGLADESHI police are today questioning 39 suspected Islamic militants after
a man detonated a bomb outside a government building, killing one person and
wounding at least 29 others. The bomb exploded yesterday outside a complex in
Gazipur.

The bomber was disguised as a tea vendor. Security officers challenged him and
he refused to undergo a search. When officers threatened to shoot him, he threw
a tea flask containing the bomb to the ground, and it exploded. The bomber was
wounded but conscious, and gave his name as Abdur Razzak, 25.

There was no claim of responsibility for the latest blast, but police said they
discovered leaflets of Jumatul Mujahideen Bangladesh, a banned Islamic group, on
the bomber.

Flight aborted after 'Taliban' note

. AN America West Airbus jet made an emergency landing at Kansas City
International Airport after someone left a note in the plane's bathroom that
said: "Taliban is Here."

The plane was flying from Phoenix to Boston yesterday when a passenger saw the
note, an airport spokesman said. The passenger notified the flight crew and the
pilot landed the plane about 1:30pm. The FBI, airport police and the
Transportation Security Administration responded and police dogs searched the
plane, but no one was detained or arrested.

The flight resumed at 4.30pm.

Picture of the day

. A JAPANESE mother and child examine the colourful maple leaves at the Nanzenji
temple of the Rinzai Buddhism sect in the city of Kyoto yesterday

Dead vodka tot's parents caught

. A FLORIDA couple accused of feeding their three-month-old baby a lethal dose
of vodka to calm her down surrendered to police after detectives tracked down a
mobile phone number and persuaded them to turn themselves in. Mardala Derival,
22, and Mackenson Dantus, 25, gave themselves up yesterday in New Jersey and
were charged with aggravated manslaughter in the 2004 death of their daughter,
Makeisha. An autopsy found she had a blood-alcohol level of 0.47 and severe
liver damage.

Inquiry into naked prisoner abuse

. A RETIRED top judge will head an inquiry into a Malaysian police abuse scandal
sparked by a video showing a naked Chinese woman forced to perform squats in
police custody, the prime minister said today. The covertly filmed nude video
has bolstered claims by human rights activists that police routinely mistreat
detainees, and that the Malay-dominated police unfairly target Chinese
nationals.

China arrests 1 million gamblers

. CHINESE authorities have arrested 1.16 million people suspected of involvement
in illegal betting this year. Police seized 2.3 billion yuan (Pounds 166
million) in 163,000 cases during the crackdown, aimed mainly at preventing
public officials squandering public funds in casinos in Macau, North Korea and
Vietnam. Among the million arrested were 8,735 members of the ruling Communist
party, said a state news report.

LA grounds its Pounds 9bn airport plan

. LOS ANGELES announced it is scrapping most of the Pounds 9 billion
modernisation plan for its airport under a settlement with opponents who
threated to sue.

Under the tentative agreement, the airport would also limit passenger growth and
pay millions of dollars to soundproof nearby homes and reduce traffic
congestion.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            December 2, 2005 Friday

Highest award for police heroes of 7/7 terror attacks

BYLINE: RICHARD EDWARDS

SECTION: C MERGE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 495 words


HEROES of the aftermath of the 7 July bombings were honoured today for their
bravery.

A roll call of 96 British Transport Police officers involved in rescuing
survivors, recovering bodies and accounting for the 52 people who were killed,
were recognised for acting above and beyond the call of duty.

Transport Secretary Alistair Darling presented them with Chief Constable's
Commendations, the highest BTP award, which honours those who have shown
"special zeal, courage, skill and resourcefulness".

Among those named was Inspector Stephen Mingay, the first officer on the scene
at King's Cross where 13 people died. He was at the top of a Piccadilly line
escalator when he felt the explosion beneath him.

He and Pc Gerard Collins ran to evacuate people on the platform before entering
the smokefilled Tube tunnel to be confronted by a scene of horror.

Pcs David Coleman and Alan Muggleton and their police dogs Vinnie and Joe were
commended for "outstanding actions". They searched at King's Cross for other
devices within an hour of the blast.

Today, Mr Mingay said with tears in his eyes: "I still have nightmares about it.
It haunts me to this day."

He smashed down the doors to the mangled carriage where Jermaine Lindsay had set
off his bomb. He said: "I realised I was responding to a terrorist attack and I
knew there may be chemical or biological considerations or secondary devices.

"But I had to do my duty as the first responding officer. The scene I found
there I just don't want to tell you about. I don't think anyone should have to
read about what I saw, least of all the families of the victims." The
officershonoured today responded to all of the blast scenes at King's Cross,
Edgware Road, Aldgate and the bus bombing in Tavistock Square.

Alan Cotter, Michael Hatcher and Robert Whyte, serving Pcs for only three weeks,
were first to the Aldgate scene.

Detective Constable Ann Michelsen was commended for logging and recording
thousands of crime scene exhibits at a mortuary in "extremely unpleasant
circumstances". Pcs Stephen Cox, Jeremy Davis and Gareth Norris were honoured
for helping retrieve body parts.

Mr Darling told the officers: "Right across the world there was fantastic
admiration for the work you did."

BTP Chief Constable Ian Johnston told them: "Some of you may say the qualities
which led to today's citations are normal requirements of policing.

I don't, and the public are very fortunate indeed to be served by officers like
you."

Detective Sergeant Michael Carney, 48, pulled survivors Gill Hicks and Garri
Holness from the wreckage at King's Cross more than 150 ft underground.

He said: "Gill was seriously injured - it seemed she had lost both of her legs.

"I had to lift her from the wreckage by her belt while ambulance crews held her
shoulders and head."

DS Carney then carried her a quarter of a mile to safety, along with Mr Holness,
who lost a leg, on makeshift stretchers which he had formed by tying together
clothing he found at the scene.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                            December 2, 2005 Friday

Prescott's wife tells of terrorist attack fears

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 298 words


The wife of Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott yesterday told a court how she
feared for her life when Greenpeace activists she thought might be terrorists
climbed on to the roof of the couple's family home.

Pauline Prescott said she was "absolutely terrified" when a police guard told
her that intruders had scaled the walls of her house while her husband was away
during the General Election campaign.

She described how one of the armed officers outside her home woke her using an
intercom.

"I said, 'Who are they? Are they terrorists? Are they going to come crashing
through my windows?', " she told Hull Magistrates Court at the start of the
trial of eight Greenpeace activists, including Andrew Taylor from Stroud,
Gloucestershire.

The case follows an incident at the Prescott's detached home in Hull, on April
26.

The court heard how, despite two armed police officers being on duty outside the
property, a large number of protesters dressed in orange overalls and yellow
hard hats stormed the gates.

They then climbed up to the roof of the house using ladders and set up solar
panels on each of the two "turrets" at the front.

Mrs Prescott told the court she was not told the intruders were from Greenpeace
until 30 minutes after the incident began, when her husband called.

Asked how she felt at this time, she replied: "Absolutely terrified. In fear of
my life, quite frankly." Mrs Prescott told a district judge how she fetched her
husband's secretary Della Georgeson and the only other person in the house at
the time, and they stayed together, locked in the bedroom for eight hours after
the incident began at about 6.15am.

Mrs Prescott said: "I am a private person and what really did annoy me is that
these people knew that my husband was on the campaign trail." The case
continues.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 5, 2005 Monday

UNMIK should react following "terrorist attacks" against Serbs

LENGTH: 222 words


Text of report by Belgrade-based private BKTV on 4 December

[Presenter] The Coordination Centre for Kosovo-Metohija chairwoman, Sanda
Raskovic-Ivic, has said that frequent terrorist attacks [in Kosovo] show
Albanian extremists' nervousness and prove that the Albanian side is offering
violence instead of talks.

[Raskovic-Ivic] The attack against the bus [which occurred on 3 December] is yet
another in a range of terrorist acts and proves that Albanians are offering
violence on the eve of forthcoming talks and that they are not willing to stop
it.

I do not know whether the violence is taking place because Albanians have lost
nerve or it is how they want to blackmail the international community into
getting what they want, i.e. independence.

I believe that the international community should influence the Albanian side
constructively in some way, so that it discontinues the terrorist attacks.
Unfortunately, UNMIK [UN Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo] has not
commented previous terrorist attacks as it should have done, I do not know how
it will be following this attack. Mr [UN special envoy Martti] Ahtisaari should
also issue a statement regarding these attacks and he should note that the
Albanian side is rather uncooperative and, it seems to me, rather aggressive.

Source: BKTV, Belgrade, in Serbian 1755 gmt 4 Dec 05

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 5, 2005 Monday

Bangladesh police foil terror attack - TV

LENGTH: 186 words


Text of report by Bangladeshi ATN TV on 5 December

Police have foiled another attempted suicide bomb attack by two members of the
JMB [Jamiat-ul-Mojahedin Bangladesh] at Gajipur.

Police said they raided a JMB hideout today just before some bombs were to be
delivered for an attack. They arrested a couple who admitted that they are
members of JMB. After interrogation they said they had links with the recent
suicide attacks at Gajipur. A police squad led by Atiqul Islam, superintendent
of police, Gajipur, raided the rented house of one Jewel at Telepata near
Mymensingh road early this morning and got hold of him and his wife while
manufacturing bombs. Police also detained the caretaker of the house. Police
recovered huge quantity of bomb-making materials from the spot. Jewel admitted
that all the bombs exploded at Gajipur were supplied by him. He confessed that
he also supplied bombs to Razzak who made the suicide bomb attack on 1 December.
The owner of the house said he had no knowledge about anything. Jewel rented the
house about two months ago.

Source: ATN Bangla TV, Dhaka, in Bengali 1200 gmt 5 Dec 05

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 5, 2005 Monday

Putin offers condolences to Israel over terror attack

LENGTH: 136 words


Text of report by Russian news agency ITAR-TASS

Moscow, 5 December: President Vladimir Putin has expressed deep condolences to
President Moshe Qatzav and the people of Israel in connection with today's
terrorist act in that country.

In a telephone conversation, which took place at the initiative of the Russian
side, Putin stressed that Russia, which is a resolute opponent of terrorism,
sharply condemns the terrorist attack carried out by extremists in a bid to
undermine the peace process.

Key issues of Russian-Israeli relations were discussed during the conversation,
as well as the progress of the Middle-East settlement, the Kremlin press service
reported today.

Putin also congratulated Moshe Qatzav, who is 60 today, on the occasion of the
jubilee.

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1312 gmt 5 Dec 05

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Hastings Observer

                                December 5, 2005

Shop assistant held at knifepoint in terror attack

LENGTH: 257 words


A TERRIFIED shop assistant was held at knifepoint during a robbery at an
off-licence.

At around 9.50pm on Saturday, a man went into Thresher in Marina.

The offender, who is described as black, then produced a bladed item believed to
be a knife.

He approached the woman shop assistant and demanded money from the till.

Once she opened the tills, he took around £200 in cash before leaving of the
store. He was wearing a black hooded anorak, dark trousers and white trainers.

Police are keen to hear from any witnesses who may have seen the man in the area
at the time or from anyone who may have information relating to the robbery.

They said the victim was left 'very shaken' by the ordeal.

Lisa Fouche, manager of the shop, said she was unable to comment on the robbery.

A company spokesman said: "Thresher Group regrets to confirm that a robbery took
place last Saturday at Thresher in St Leonards.

"The safety of our staff is of paramount importance to us and hence our
dedicated security team is reviewing security arrangements at the shop and
working closely with local police to identify the offender and prevent further
incidents occurring.

"Our shop staff are at present being offered help and support by our incident
support counselling team.

"CCTV footage of the incident has been handed to the police."

Anyone who may have vital information about this crime should ring Hastings CID
on 0845 60 70 999 and quote serial 1568 of 26/11/05 or Crimestoppers anonymously
on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           December 6, 2005, Tuesday

STREETS OF FEAR;
NINE OUT OF TEN WOMEN LIVE IN TERROR OF ATTACK

BYLINE: By Paula Murray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 107 words


NINE in ten young women are terrified of being attacked on the streets of
Scotland.

Most fear being raped, many have been followed and others report having their
drinks spiked.

They blame a country awash with booze and drugs and feel they are less safe than
they were a decade ago.

But the first Safety on the Streets study of 2000 women revealed three in four
fail to take sufficient care when they have been drinking.

Most are afraid of going on public transport late at night, yet just one per
cent carry a personal alarm.

Today's young women are as afraid of being beaten up by other girls as they are
of being attacked by men

FULL STORY - PAGE 6

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            The Independent (London)

                            December 6, 2005 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Politics: All-party committee attacks anti-terror laws as 'unjust'

BYLINE: By Nigel Morris Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 648 words


Much of Tony Blair's anti-terror legislation breaches fundamental human rights,
an all-party committee of MPs and peers has warned.

The joint committee on human rights condemned the plan to outlaw the
'glorification' of terrorism, attacked the proposed offence of disseminating
terrorist publications and said incarcerating terror suspects for up to 28 days
without charge was disproportionate.

The committee even called on ministers to tighten their basic definition of
terrorism to stop the legislation being challenged in the courts. It stated:
'Even in the immediate aftermath of a serious terrorist attack, it remains the
case that all measures taken by states to counter terrorism must respect human
rights and the principle of the rule of law.

'They must exclude any form of arbitariness, as well as any discriminatory or
racist treatment. They must be subject to appropriate supervision and they must
respect the absolute prohibition of torture.'

The damning indictment of the Government's Terrorism Bill came just as ministers
braced themselves for fresh criticism of the legislation " it begins its
committee stage in the House of Lords.

Charles Clarke, the Home Secretary, has already suffered one defeat after MPs
threw out plans to hold terror suspects for up to 90 days in favour of a reduced
28-day period. Yesterday, the Government tabled an amendment to the Bill to
protect innocent librarians, academics and teachers from being made into
criminals under a provision outlawing the training of terrorists.

Critics had complained they could unwittingly be committing an offence, with a
maximum penalty of 10 years' jail, if they lent books or gave tuition that could
be useful to terrorists.

The Home Office said the legislation was being tightened so an instructor must
know, and not merely suspect, that a student has malign intentions. A spokesman
said: 'We want to set the minds of librarians and academics at rest. Clearly we
have no desire to prosecute such people when they are simply doing their
worthwhile jobs.'

In its report, the joint committee acknowledged there was a case for a new
offence of indirectly inciting terrorist acts. But it said to make the offence
compatible with human rights legislation the Government needed to 'delete the
references to glorification, insert a more tightly drawn definition of
terrorism' and require terrorist intention to be demonstrated.

The committee also called for legal safeguards for defendants to be strengthened
to bring the Bill in line with the European Convention on Human Rights. It said
the proposed offence of disseminating terrorist publications was incompatible
with the convention because of the 'lack of connection to incitement to
violence'.

Criminalising mere attendance at a place used for terrorist training was
described as 'disproportionate', as was the Government's unsuccessful demand for
police to be able to hold terror suspects for 90 days. The latter provided
'insufficient guarantees against arbitrariness'. It added: 'Similar, if less
substantial risks remain ... even in relation to the 28- day maximum period now
allowed for in the Bill.'

The MPs and peers concluded that the case had not been made for any extension
from the current 14-day detention period beyond the initial fortnight. They said
any application for detention to be extended should be only be submitted by a
very senior police officer

A Home Office spokesman said: 'We're confident the measures proposed are fully
compatible with our obligations under human rights law.'

Mark Oaten, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said: 'The strong
objections to this Bill were not just about detention without charge. There is
deep disquiet about the effect of the legislation on freedom of speech. The
Government still has time ... and should now seek a consensus in the Lords. We
can still achieve a Terrorism Bill which has broad support.'

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Charles Clarke: Defeated on 90-day detention plan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                December 6, 2005

UN: Middle East Quartet condemns Netanya terrorist attack, demands Syria close
offices of Palestinian Islamic Jihad

LENGTH: 355 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-DECEMBER 6, 2005-UN: Middle East Quartet condemns Netanya terrorist
attack, demands Syria close offices of Palestinian Islamic Jihad ©1994-2005 M2
COMMUNICATIONS LTD

The following is the text of a statement issued by the Middle East Quartet after
holding consultations on 5 December:

Representatives of the Quartet -- United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan,
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, United States Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice, United Kingdom Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, High
Representative for European Common Foreign and Security Policy Javier Solana,
and European Commissioner for External Relations Benita Ferrero-Waldner --
consulted today on the situation in the Middle East.

The Quartet condemns today's terrorist attack in Netanya in the strongest
possible terms. Representatives of Palestinian Islamic Jihad have claimed
responsibility for the bombing through al-Manar television. The Quartet repeats
its demand that the Syrian Government take immediate action to close the offices
of Palestinian Islamic Jihad and to prevent the use of its territory by armed
groups engaged in terrorist acts.

The Quartet denounces all acts of terrorism and urges all parties to exercise
restraint, avoid an escalation of violence, and keep the channels of
communication open. The Quartet encourages and supports the Palestinian
Authority's efforts to take immediate steps to prevent armed groups from acting
against law and order and the policy of the Authority itself. The Quartet
reiterates its support for efforts to assist the Palestinian Authority in the
reform and restructuring of its security services.

The Quartet believes it is imperative that all involved act decisively to ensure
that terror and violence are not allowed to undermine further progress in
accordance with the Road Map.

The Quartet will remain seized of these matters.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2005 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 7, 2005 Wednesday

Romanian Foreign Ministry condemns terrorist attack in Israel

LENGTH: 144 words


Text of report by Romanian news agency Rompres

Bucharest, 7 December: The Ministry for Foreign Affairs (MAE) in Romania has got
acquainted with much concern with the terrorist attack committed on 5 December
in Netanya that provoked victims among innocent Israeli civilians and firmly
condemns this act, expressing regrets for the big loss of human life.

"Romanian MAE reiterates on this occasion, as well, its stance according to
which these terrorist actions are blameable and the escalation of violence risks
to derail the peace process. The fight against terrorism is crucial in obtaining
a durable peace in the region and Romania expresses its availability to further
contribute in an active way to the attainment of this objective", a press
release issued by MAE on Wednesday [7 December] shows.

Source: Rompres news agency, Bucharest, in Romanian 1341 gmt 7 Dec 05

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           December 7, 2005 Wednesday

Payouts shake-up too late to help victims of 7 July terrorism attacks

BYLINE: BEN LEAPMAN; SAM LYON; FLORA STUBBS

SECTION: A MERGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 860 words


REFORM of compensation payments for crime victims is unlikely to help those
injured or bereaved in the 7 July bombings.

Today, ministers announced plans to reform the Criminal Injuries Compensation
Authority after complaints about its performance following the Tube and bus
blasts.

Future claimants are set to benefit from immediate practical help, speedier cash
payouts and the scrapping of the Pounds 500,000 ceiling on awards.

But insiders said the changes, due next year, would probably not be backdated to
help 7/7 victims. A government source said: "It's unlikely to be applied
retrospectively." In a consultation paper published today, the Home Office asks
for views on whether the improvements should be made retrospective.

However, officials envisage practical and political problems which could make
the move impossible.

Any attempt at backdating would raise the question of a cut-off date.

Victims of IRA bombings could complain if they were left out. There would also
be a question over whether the cut-off applied to the date when the injury was
sustained or when compensation was claimed.

Critics accused the Government of penny-pinching.

Sheila Henry, who lost her son Christian Small on 7 July, said it would be "
thoughtless" of ministers not to backdate the changes. Grahame Russell, whose
son Philip Russell died in the Tavistock Square blast, said he thought the
Government was unlikely to make retrospective changes but added: "Nothing is
impossible - it just depends how much they want to pay out."

Ministers point out that the 7/7 victims have already received Pounds 10million
of public money - Pounds 1million via the London Bombings Relief Charitable Fund
and Pounds 9million in top-ups from the CICA.

In the shake-up, the scope of the CICA could be extended to let Britons injured
by terrorism outside Britain claim compensation.

But the Government is set to reject calls for a separate authority to deal
solely with victims of terrorism, leaving the CICA to deal with crime victims.

Criticism of the CICA has been led by Martine Wright, who lost both legs on 7
July.

She had to wait three months before receiving any money and was left struggling
to pay her mortgage and for prosthetic limbs.

Despite facing a lifetime of lost earnings, her compensation will be capped at
Pounds 500,000 unless the Government backdates the reforms.

Anyone injured by a crime is entitled to claim from the CICA. Payouts are made
on a fixed scale according to the severity of the injury, with only Pounds 5,500
for families of those killed or Pounds 11,000 if only one relative makes a
claim.

Most of the authority's Pounds 200 million-a-year budget goes on compensating
victims of ordinary criminal attacks, not terrorism.

Under the Government's proposals, the most seriously hurt, such as knife attack
victim Abigail Witchalls, would be fast-tracked for help.

So far, the CICA has received 328 applications relating to 7/7. It has made
offers to 138 people, totalling Pounds 1.3million, and 112 have been accepted.

Any changes 'should benefit people like me'

A MOTHER who lost her son in the Russell Square bomb said today any change in
the way criminal compensation is paid must help victims of the 7/7 bombings.

Sheila Henry, who lost 28-year-old Christian Small in the attack, believes that
treating the victims differently from those of future criminal acts would be a
"disgrace" and lead to further hardship for those already struggling to cope.

"I would like to see it work retrospectively," she said. "It has got to be
available to the people living with the trauma of that tragedy. It would look
awful, especially for those who survived the attack [and] those severely
injured."

Christian died with 25 others when 19-year-old Jermaine Lindsay blew up a
Piccadilly line train. The marketing executive had been on his way to work in
Holborn from his home in Walthamstow.

Mrs Henry, a psychotherapist, is now seeking compensation.

'The Pounds 11,000 is nothing, it's an insult'

THE sister of one of the King's Cross victims is dismayed by the level of
compensation.

But while the Pounds 11,000 offered to the family of Karolina Gluck feels like
an insult, her twin sister Magda does not believe the 7 July victims should be
treated differently from victims of other terror attacks.

Magda Gluck, 29, a land surveyor, said: "Why should my sister get special
treatment when so many other people have died in other bombings?"

But the Polish national, who lives in Palmers Green, added: "I still feel very
upset about the compensation issue. The Government should have changed the law
10 years ago, when the IRA attacks were still a big issue, rather than waiting
for 52 people to be killed before it makes a change.

"It's too late, far too late, for this now." Karolina died on a Piccadilly line
train on her way to work in the administrative office of Goodenough College,
near Russell Square.

Ms Gluck said her whole family - most of whom still live in Poland - feel angry
and insulted by the Government's attitude to compensation.

She said: "The Pounds 11,000 my family has been offered is nothing, it's an
insult. It's like saying my sister's life was only worth Pounds 11,000."

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           December 8, 2005, Thursday

MYLEENE IN HAPPY SLAPPING TERROR;
TEENAGERS FILM ATTACK ON BULLY CAMPAIGN STAR

BYLINE: By Pete Samson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 468 words


FORMER Hear'Say singer Myleene Klass was left shaken yesterday after becoming a
victim of the "happy slapping" craze.

The TV presenter and anti-bullying campaigner had chips thrown on her head and
was pushed to the ground outside a newsagent near her home.

A group of three girls and two boys attempted to take pictures of the 27year-old
on their mobile phones as she ran for help.

Myleene helped launch the anti-bullying website www.stoptextbully.com on behalf
of NCH, the children's charity, earlier this year.

Her spokesman Simon Jones said: "She is OK. She is very shaken up by it but she
is back working.

"The whole point of the antibullying campaign was to say, 'Look, speak out about
this"She wants to get the message across about how important it is to report
this kind of incident to the police. She would very much like to see these
people brought to justice."

Jones said the attack took place early on Tuesday afternoon when the former
Popstars winner, who now presents the ITV1 show cd:uk, went into her local
newsagent in the Bermondsey area of London.

He said she noticed a group of three girls and two boys, all older teenagers,
outside who started singing "Pure And Simple - I am going to kill you".

One of the girls followed her into the newsagent and asked Myleene to confirm
her identity.

When Myleene emerged from the shop, one of the girls threw some chips on to her
head and the singer was pushed to the ground.

The gang members were laughing and one was heard to say "Shall I bitch slap
her?" - a reference to the craze where people are attacked and pictures are
taken on mobile phones.

A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said: "A 27-year-old woman attended a south London
police station to report a common assault."

She said there had been no arrests and inquiries were continuing.

John Carr, of the NCH charity, said: "It's ironic that this assault mirrors some
of the experiences that she's been helping NCH raise awareness of.

"This must have been a terrifying experience for Myleene and her ordeal
highlights yet again how mobile phones are used to intimidate victims.

"Myleene is a public figure who has used her celebrity to support NCH in raising
awareness of bullying before it ruins any more young lives

CRUEL CRAZE

THE "happy-slapping" craze was first reported in the playgrounds of schools in
south London last year before spreading to the rest of the UK. The phenomenon,
thought to have emerged from the garage music scene, has seen teenagers
attacking unsuspecting bystanders while capturing the attacks on mobile phones.

There have been dozens of incidents reported. One group filmed a teenager dying
after an attack and another boy hanged himself after becoming a victim of the
cruel craze.

Concern has been so great it has led to calls to introduce technology to block
the use of mobiles in schools

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2005 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 8, 2005 Thursday
                                  Eire Edition

DOG ATTACK PETS TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 90 words


A COURT heard yesterday how a pitbull terrier savaged a rabbit and left another
dog so badly injured it had to be put down.

The animal broke into a neighbour's rabbit hutch and, on a separate occasion,
attacked a dog.

Anne Doran, 21, from Tipperary, was fined e300 by Nenagh District Court.

She was minding the pitbull while her brother was in Australia.

Solicitors acting in her defence said she reported to gardai that the dog had
escaped at the time and that she apologised.

The court was told that the pitbull terrier has since been put down.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               December 12, 2005

Explosion brought terror attack fears

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 377 words


Mark Branagan

With a ball of flames rising into the sky which later turned black as night, the
blast brought terror to residents - fearing a plane crash, earthquake, or the
terrorist attack on a petrol store which experts have been anticipating for
months.

After being ordered to leave their homes, hundreds stayed at a local leisure
centre, with only the clothes they stood up in and pets, desperately waiting for
news of what had happened.

Despite early reassurances it was a simple accident, the disaster underlined the
state of Britain's nerves following the London bombings and fears about what
al-Qaida might do next.

West Yorkshire Chief Constable Colin Cramphorn has said his biggest fear is of a
young suicide bomber seizing a chlorine tanker on the M1 and driving it into the
middle of Leeds while US experts have warned terrorists may hijack fuel trucks
and ram them into petrol stations to cause blasts.

Yesterday's explosions were said to have been heard as far away as France and
Holland. But forecaster Michael Dukes, of the PA Weather Centre, said the frosty
morning created perfect conditions for the sound to be trapped close to ground
and travel a long way rather than escaping upwards.

Resident Helen Glass said: "There was just a massive explosion and a long
rumbling sound. At first I thought it was a gas explosion or that a plane had
crashed. Both children came running into my room and were absolutely terrified".



Dominic and Sheila Gizzie, a quarter of a mile from the blast, thought there may
have even been an earthquake. Another resident Humphrey Alan added: "I looked
outside the window and thought, 'have we been attacked?"'

Norrie Vine, a 71-year-old taxi driver, was thrown from a chair in his flat in
Wood Close, near Wood Lane End, Hemel Hempstead, when the blast happened. He
said: "At first I thought it was an al-Qaida thing, I have lived around the
world and I know what explosions sound like. It felt like the force of a 2,000lb
bomb.

"It was terrifying. I thought that it was going to be the end of me, everything
was shaking.

Hara Babu, 30, who lives in Leverstock Green, the area evacuated by police
yesterday morning, woke up to find the windows of his house had been shattered.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005

                       Copyright 2005 Johnston Press Plc

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                           December 13, 2005 Tuesday

Couple's terror at boiling water attack ordeal

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 344 words


A Man has been accused of tying up a couple then threatening to douse them with
boiling water and brand them with an iron.

Michael Porter was alleged to have bound their hands and feet, and put flex
around their necks.

He was also accused of pulling a knife on Elaine and David Hubbard.

The 21-year-old was arrested after an alleged incident in Aberdeen's Bridge of
Don.

Neighbours spoke of the drama that unfolded on their doorstep on Saturday.

One woman, who lives nearby, said: "I've never seen anything like it. There were
about eight police cars and four detectives."

One mum, who lives nearby, said: "We opened the curtains about 9pm and saw all
the police cars. You saw them coming and going till about lunchtime on Sunday.
The police also closed off the street."

Another neighbour said officers carried out door-to-door inquiries.

When our reporter knocked on the door of the flat at he centre of the drama the
occupants refused to answer.

A man from inside the flat said: "It was nothing. We don't want to talk about
it."

Porter appeared in private at Aberdeen Sheriff Court yesterday afternoon.

He faced two charges in connection with the alleged incident.

Represented by Aberdeen solicitor Charles Benzies, Porter was accused of
assaulting David and Elaine Hubbard at an address in Simpson Road while acting
along with another person.

It was alleged he pulled a knife on each of them, threatened to pour boiling
water over them and brand them with an iron.

The charges also stated that Porter tied their hands and feet together, put a
towel in Ms Hubbard's mouth and put flex round each of their necks.

It is alleged he tied each alleged victim to the neck of the other and held them
both against their will to their injury.

It is also alleged that  Ms Hubbard was dragged into a kitchen, forced to sit on
a cooker and punched in the face.

Porter, of 83 Dunstall Hill, Wolverhampton, made no plea or declaration and was
remanded in custody following a brief appearance before Sheriff Alexander
Jessop.

Porter is expected to appear again in private next week.

ashaw@ajl.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Aberdeen Evening Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           December 13, 2005 Tuesday

G2: How was it for you?: Five years ago today Al Gore phoned George Bush to
formally concede the presidency. Since then the United States has suffered it's
worst ever terrorist attack, become embroiled in a disastrous foreign war and
bungled the response to a natural catastrophe. So what is the Bush legacy after
half a decade? Is he a ruthless Machiavell or a bumbling puppet? A devout
idealist or a cynical opportunist? A disaster or a mild disappointment? Here,
six top American commentators - from the left and the right - deliver their
verdicts, while Steve Bell explains the chimp thing: Bush seems able to appease
his conservative evangelical base only by pandering to its wish list.

BYLINE: Jacob Weisberg

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 815 words


George Bush seems less likely to be remembered as a disastrous American
president than as an ultimately insignificant one. Despite his ambition to
reshape American politics and society in the order of a Reagan or a Thatcher,
Bush has presided over a period of national and economic drift that more closely
resembles the forgettable reign of his father.

The main goal of the Bush presidency was to transform the American electorate by
creating a durable Republican majority. Karl Rove, the architect of Bush's
political career in Texas and Washington, has drawn an implicit analogy between
his own role and that of the legendary fin-de-siecle political boss Mark Hanna,
who served President William McKinley in the 1890s.

Hanna was McKinley's political brain in the way Rove is Bush's. McKinley was an
affable, not-too-bright former congressman when Hanna helped to elect him
governor of Ohio. In 1896, Hanna raised an unprecedented amount of money, and
ran a ruthless and sophisticated campaign that got McKinley to the White House.
One could go on with this analogy. McKinley governed negligently in the
interests of big business and went to war on flimsy evidence that Spain had
blown up the USS Maine.

The key to McKinley's success was the alliance Hanna forged between wealthy
industrialists like himself, who provided cash, and workers, who provided votes.
In the Bush version, the rich again provide the cash and religious conservatives
provide the votes. The wealthy have been rewarded with tax cuts, the
evangelicals with hard-line conservative policies on abortion, gay rights and a
school prayer. Bush's re-election victory last year seemed to vindicate his and
Rove's strategy of attempting to turn the country to the right. Though it was
hardly a landslide, Bush did, unlike in 2000, win a genuine, popular endorsement
of his policies.

But a year later, that re-election victory looks like an aberration, explained
more by factors such as a weak Democratic opponent rather than any sea-change in
American politics. Less than a year into Bush's second term, his approval rating
has fallen to less than 40%, which approaches the nadir for any modern president
at any moment in his tenure. This has happened at a time when the US economy,
usually a reliable predicter of presidential popularity, has continued to grow
robustly, oblivious to Bush's irresponsible fiscal policies and neglect of
global competitiveness issues surrounding America's education and health care
systems.

Many things have gone wrong for Bush, most notably everything that has happened
in Iraq since he declared "Mission Accomplished" in the spring of 2003, but the
underlying problem is his relationship to the rightwing constituency that
elected him. Bush's debt to his big donors and to religious conservatives has
boxed him in and pitted him against the national consensus on a range of issues.
It has proven impossible for Bush to satisfy both the militant conservative base
and the eternally moderate US electorate.

The president has never understood the brilliance of Ronald Reagan's way of
dealing with this conflict. Reagan managed to appease the religious right with
rhetoric, without actually forcing retrograde changes on divisive social issues.
Reagan also placated conservatives by challenging the growth of the public
sector. This is a theme Bush has soft-pedalled, preferring to allow federal
spending and deficits to rise.

Whether because he is less adroit or because he truly believes what he says,
Bush seems able to appease his conservative evangelical base only by
surrendering to its wish-list. He has caved in to conservatives on issues
including stem-cell research, pension privatisation and the teaching of
"intelligent design" in schools. With his most recent Supreme Court nomination,
Bush has given in further, creating at least the appearance that he is trying to
get enough votes to remove the constitutional protection for abortion rights.

Through such choices, Bush propels his increasingly beleaguered administration
further towards the right-hand margin - a place where his party cannot win
future national elections. Possessed of the notion that he had won a mandate for
radical change and enshrined a new governing majority, Bush lost sight of the
eternal moderation of the American electorate. Now even rock-ribbed
conservatives who face re-election next year are running away from any
association with Bush because of his unpopularity.

When it comes to America's relations with the rest of the world, the damage Bush
caused may take longer to repair, but his historic influence is unlikely to be
any more durable. He will bequeath to our next president the remnants of a
negligently planned entanglement in Iraq, but not any coherent American approach
to foreign policy or international economics.

Jacob Weisberg is the editor of Slate.com and the author of the "Bushisms"
series

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           December 13, 2005 Tuesday

G2: How was it for you?: Five years ago today Al Gore phoned George Bush to
formally concede the presidency. Since then the United States has suffered it's
worst ever terrorist attack, become embroiled in a disastrous foreign war and
bungled the response to a natural catastrophe. So what is the Bush legacy after
half a decade? Is he a ruthless Machiavell or a bumbling puppet? A devout
idealist or a cynical opportunist? A disaster or a mild disappointment? Here,
six top American commentators - from the left and the right - deliver their
verdicts, while Steve Bell explains the chimp thing: Ignoring sums spent on
fighting terror, Bush is the most profligate president in 30 years

BYLINE: Dee Dee Myers

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 762 words


George Bush is talking again, and I don't have a clue what he's saying. It's not
that he's mangling his syntax. That's par for the course. And while it's as
amusing as it is disconcerting, I usually think I know what he's trying to say
(though I do confess to being stumped by "more and more of our imports are
coming from overseas").

Bush is talking about Iraq, which is always confusing for those of us who like
our words and facts to match. He's saying he'll "settle for nothing less than
total victory". And I'm wondering: what in the world is total victory? Does it
mean large numbers of American troops will stay until Iraq is a fully
functioning democracy with a vibrant economy and the political will to help
spread freedom across the Middle East? That could take, like, 100 years. Or does
it mean that we'll stay until we stand up enough Iraqi police officers and
soldiers to claim with a straight face that they can handle their own security?
That could mean substantial troop reductions in time to prevent total defeat in
next year's mid-term elections. I just don't know.

But this is a familiar feeling for me. I think I know what something means -
until I hear George Bush say it.

My trouble with Bush's words started early. When he was running for president in
2000, Bush said he was a "compassionate conservative". I thought I understood
compassion and conservatism separately, but put them together and it might as
well be cold fusion, a concept that, I confess, totally eludes me. Five years
later, I'm still trying to get my head around it. I guess cutting income, estate
and capital gains taxes is the compassionate part, since the cuts really help
the rich, who did have it awfully tough during the Clinton years. Or perhaps
that's the conservative part, because I'm pretty sure that adding $2.4trn to the
national debt isn't.

Neither is vastly expanding the size of government. Bush says he's for "fiscal
restraint". But during his first term, federal spending increased by $616.4bn -
not that anyone's counting, in the wake of 9/11. Obviously, I'm not looking at
this right. But even when I don't count the vast sums spent on defence and
homeland security, Bush is still the most profligate president in 30 years;
domestic spending alone is up 36%. OK, so maybe the Congress is to blame. Even
though Republicans control the place, they don't seem to have got the message
about "fiscal restraint"; they passed $91bn more in programmes than Bush
requested during his first term. Surely Bush fought hard to slow them down,
refusing to go along with their mountain of cockamamie spending measures? Or
not, since he's the first president since John Quincy Adams (1825-29) to serve
an entire term without vetoing a bill.

"Uniter" is another word that gives me trouble. Bush says he is one. Granted, he
ran a campaign aimed at dividing the country, but who can blame a guy for
wanting to win? He decided early on that he would forget about building a broad
consensus for his second term. That kind of talk is for sissies, like John
Kerry. Bush wanted a narrow victory, 50% plus one - and that's what he got. But
after the election, he said he wanted to be president of all the people, even
the dummies who didn't vote for him. And he welcomed us to just change our views
so we could all agree together. That was pretty big of him.

My list of confusing words and concepts gets longer all the time. "Competence"
is on the list. George Bush promised us he was the first MBA president and would
run the White House with cold-eyed efficiency. And it's very reassuring to hear
him say that from Iraq to New Orleans, the government is doing a "heck of a
job". Ditto torture. The president says the United States doesn't torture. Boy,
is that a relief. Now if only I had a new word for what I saw at Abu Ghraib.
Let's not forget "energy policy". I'm sure there's a good reason why Bush's
friends in the oil business ran up record profits while American consumers were
choking on record prices.

I wish I had Bush's ability to tell all those voices in my head to shut up.
Maybe I need to learn his squinty-eyed stare; it certainly seems to have had the
desired effect on the press corps. I, too, want to believe that the world is
black and white, that all problems have simple solutions, and that doubts are
for the weak and faint-hearted. I, too, want to ignore complexity and laugh in
the face of contradictory facts. I, too, want to be 14 again *

Dee Dee Myers is a political analyst and commentator, and a former White House
press secretary in the Clinton administration.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 14, 2005 Wednesday

Norway police chief fears terror attack on Scandinavia

LENGTH: 297 words


Text of report by Norwegian public broadcaster NRK website on 14 December;
subheadings as published:

"It is just a question of time before terrorists attack Norway, Sweden or
Denmark," says Joern Holme, head of the Police Security Service.

The head of the Police Security Service tells Reuters that militant Islamists
who are operating in the Nordic countries exploit their open and liberal
societies and will commit an attack in Scandinavia sooner or later.

"In recent times we have seen an increase in recruitment and radicalization in
these milieus - and that is a new situation," Holme says.

Radical youth milieus

Holme says the terror challenge in Europe is no longer first and foremost linked
to immigrants, but rather second and third-generation immigrants. Youths aged
from 16-17 and into their twenties who form their own terror cells and adopt
Al-Qa'idah's ideology.

He compares developments with how the Police Security Service has previously
seen violent right-wing groups being formed. Youths who become radicalized are
not influenced by their parents at home but in youth milieus.

"Krekar case unbelievable"

He points out the danger which a poor or non-existent integration policy
represents to society and says this could provide a breeding ground for networks
arising in Scandinavia and asks the politicians to be aware of this.

Holme also points to the [Mullah] Krekar case and says it is unbelievable that
Norway is not in a position to expel the mullah, even though the government has
said that he represents a threat to national security. He urges politicians to
think up other ways of dealing with cases in which national security is
threatened as the Police Security Service feels case processing takes too long.

Source: NRK website, Oslo, in Norwegian 1854 gmt 14 Dec 05

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                          December 14, 2005 Wednesday

Banks failing to prepare for more terror attacks

BYLINE: JAMES ROSSITER; JANE PADGHAM

SECTION: LSE 04; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 625 words


SERIOUS doubts were today cast over the ability of City banks to cope with staff
injuries from another terrorist atrocity, although it emerged businessmen feel
London's commercial status has not been dented by the 7 July attacks which
killed 52 people.

A report by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) and Bank of England found
serious shortcomings in preparedness for further attacks, saying "more than half
of participants do not address the issue of staff fatalities" in their business
continuity plans.

More than 60 major banks and insurers took part in the survey, but only half
said they have plans for handling casualties, and a mere half of those with
plans in place have actually carried out practice drills.

Even if the IT backup systems work, enabling City companies to survive, the
report concludes: "There is considerably less certainty-about the functioning
and welfare of its people in a crisis.

Big banks and insurers such as UBS, Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch and Prudential
tend to carry out at least quarterly simulated disaster drills, bank sources
told the Evening Standard, but doubts remain about the state of preparation of
the City's plethora of smaller brokers. FSA chairman Callum McCarthy warned
earlier this year that banks should be prepared for a "more severe test", as the
7/7 attacks were not even aimed at the UK financial services sector.

Meanwhile a CBI and KPMG survey to be published tomorrow reveals some 89% of UK
firms believe the capital is a good or very good place to do business, up from
87% six months ago.

The findings may be partly due to the stoicism displayed by London firms in the
face of the bombings, with most resuming normal operations within two working
days.

And while 42% said there was a slump in staff morale in the immediate aftermath,
this fell to 18% after the first week.

Speaking of the report of business leaders' confidence in the capital, CBI
director general Sir Digby Jones said: "Londoners showed remarkable resilience
after the July terrorist attacks.

"Despite a period of prolonged disruption to transport, the capital remained
open for business."

Baugur bid bags Whittard

WHITTARD of Chelsea, the 119-year-old tea and coffee shop chain, is falling into
the hands of takeover-hungry Icelandic investor Baugur for Pounds 21.5 million.

Baugur, which owns Hamleys, Mappin & Webb and a host of other well-known British
retailers, will integrate the business with its dried fruit, nut and sweets
chain Julian Graves. It is paying 90p a share.

The two brands will remain separate, although they will sell their products in
each other's stores.

Baugur was one of several bidders for Whittard in the summer, but the potential
deals were scuppered by the London bombings on 7 July.

Chief executive Mark Naughton-Rumbo will stay with the business but chairman
Richard Rose, who joined four years ago when the shares were 21p, is leaving.

. NEARLY half of Londoners ignore warnings about the UK's estimated Pounds 27
billion savings gap and fail to save money regularly.

New figures show that, while the capital's habitual savers squirrelled away more
of their earnings during the autumn, 48% have no regular savings plan.

National Savings and Investments says more than a quarter (28%) have savings of
less than Pounds 1000 and 6% have none at all.

. Argos owner GUS has splashed out Pounds 269 million on internet shoppers'
helper PriceGrabber.com.

The privately-owned US firm will join GUS's credit checking arm Experian,
expected to be offloaded next year. PriceGrabber compares prices across internet
retailers, charging them for each sales lead. In the current calendar year, it
expects sales of $60 million (Pounds 34 million) and profits before interest and
tax of $25 million - up 50% on last year.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ICELANDERS' 21M CUP OF TEA DRESS REHEARSAL: TRAINING EXERCISE IN THE
CITY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Western Mail

                          December 15, 2005, Thursday
                                 First Edition

City firms test terror attack effects

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 416 words


Some of the City's most significant financial firms may struggle to recover
quickly if they came under terrorist attack, the Financial Services Authority
warned yesterday.

More than 60 key companies, including investment banks and traders, volunteered
for a study to measure how the financial sector would be affected by a major
disruption such as a bombing or natural disaster.

While the research suggested most had highly resilient IT systems that could
recover critical functions quickly, continuity plans were often too
inward-looking and planning did not involve the third parties they rely on, such
as BT.

Hector Sants, managing director of the FSA's wholesale firms division, said,
'Several participants have described this exercise as very helpful in terms of
improving business continuity teams' understanding of their firms' critical
business functions.

'This is a welcome development but highlights that firms need to do more to
ensure that business continuity staff are sufficiently aware of the functions
they are supporting.'

The internet-based survey, launched in July 2004, focused on key financial
sector companies such as those involved in wholesale payments and settlements.

According to the responses the bulk of critical financial infrastructure could
be recovered within two hours. However a few firms were not able to recover
quickly and these companies would be given help to get systems in place.

The 60 organisations together reported having almost 400 buildings where
critical parts of business were carried out - with more than 75% of them within
a 5km radius of the heart of the City.

Over a third of the organisations said they did not think their operations would
be affected by an attack on London as they had outlying offices that work could
be switched to, meaning an attack on the City would not have much impact on
them.

The FSA, which worked with the Bank of England and the Treasury on the project,
said it was satisfied there was no need to enforce rules on managing business
continuity, but said it would continue to monitor the situation closely.

Mr Sants said: 'It is encouraging that the project has established that the core
parts of the financial system appear to have highly resilient IT systems that
allow them to recover critical functions with impressive speed.

'This stands the sector as a whole in good stead and confirms to us that we do
not, at this stage, need to write detailed rules telling firms what business
continuity arrangements they should adopt.'

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 16, 2005 Friday

Russian security chief reports thwarting preparations for terror attacks

LENGTH: 157 words


Text of report by Russian news agency RIA Novosti

Moscow, 16 December: The FSB [Federal Security Service] of the Russian
Federation has unmasked criminal groups preparing terrorist attacks in
Novosibirsk and Volgograd.

"A criminal group consisting of three people who were preparing to carry out
terrorist attacks against state institutions of Novosibirsk was discovered," the
director of the FSB, Nikolay Patrushev, said on Friday [16 December] at a
meeting with the heads of the leading Russian mass media.

He named the detainees as Baluyev, Kazakov and Rusakov. Patrushev reported that
about 40 kg of explosive substances were seized from the gang's caches.

The director of the FSB also said that 18 people suspected of preparing a series
of terrorist attacks in the regional centre were discovered in Volgograd Region.

Patrushev did not disclose any other details of these operations.

Source: RIA Novosti, Moscow, in Russian 1031 gmt 16 Dec 05

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                    Citywire

                      December 16, 2005 Friday 7:00 AM GMT

FSA discounts post-attack terrorist stockmarket activity

LENGTH: 247 words


The Financial Services Authority (FSA) has rejected any possibility that
terrorist-linked groups or individuals were active in the stock market in the
aftermath of the 7 July London bombings.

On 27 July Citywire exclusively revealed that after the 7 July terrorist
bombings the FSA's Markets Division implemented a review of market behaviour 'to
determine whether anyone abused the unusual market conditions'.

It was widely suspected that groups linked to the terrorist attacks on New
York's World Trade Centre in September 2001 had exploited the effect on the
world's stockmarkets. Stocks in the insurance sector in particular were hit hard
and some speculated that interested parties may have taken the opportunity to
short these to raise funds for further terrorist activities.

With a precedent set, the FSA took measures to establish whether any such
activity took place on the London markets in July. The day before the attacks
the FTSE 100 closed at 5,229 points. Immediately after the attacks it fell to
5,022 on the day but such was the extent of the buying in response that it
closed back up at 5,158. By the close of play next day it had recovered to
5,232.

Again suspicions were alerted, but Citywire has learned from FSA sources that:
'Following a review of market behaviour to determine whether anyone abused the
unusual market conditions, the FSA's Market Division did not find any indication
of abusive trading in connection with the 7 July 2005 terrorist bombings in
London.'

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2005 Citywire Financial Publishers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               December 16, 2005

Hospital blames 17.4m debt on London terror attacks

LENGTH: 589 words



HIGHLIGHT: A flagship foundation trust facing a takeover by watchdogs over its
17.4m deficit today blamed the London bombings for its financial woes.


A flagship foundation trust facing a takeover by watchdogs over its 17.4m
deficit today blamed the London bombings for its financial woes.

Figures published today by Monitor, the independent regulator of NHS foundation
trusts, show that University College London hospitals NHS trust has built up the
largest deficit since foundation trusts were first introduced in 2004.

In a statement issued today, UCLH blamed the opening of a new teaching hospital
and the "fallout of two terrorist incidents in July" for its financial position.

"Our staff worked tirelessly to help victims of the atrocities, which happened
right in the middle of the highly complex move to the new hospital," it said.

"While financial costs are much less important than human ones, our estimate is
that our direct loss of income because of the incidents is around 2m. The
knock-on effect, both in terms of lost activity and the extra stress put on
staff at what was already a very stressful time, has been much greater.

"This has resulted in the trust, at its half year point, having a deficit of
17.4m on an annual turnover of nearly 500m."

Some 61 people were treated at UCLH after the 7/7 bombings, 50 of whom were
reported to have minor injuries. Two-thirds of the casualties were discharged on
the same day. By the following day, the hospital had reported that the hospital
was "getting back to normal".

A spokesman for Monitor said it would keep in close touch with the hospital over
its unacceptably high deficit, and intervention by the foundation hospital
watchdog could not be ruled out in the future.

Each trust was judged on its own merits, a spokesman said. "We are satisfied
with UCLH that they are fully aware of the scale of the problem and taking
active steps to address it," he said.

Unlike other NHS hospitals, the foundation hospitals do not have to break even
at the end of each financial year and cannot be bailed out by the government if
they run into loss.

Yet paradoxically, Monitor's half yearly update shows most are doing far better
in their financial management than many of their non-foundation trust
counterparts.

But unduly large deficits trigger scrutiny from Monitor, which has the power to
intervene if the foundation trust shows itself incapable of addressing the
problem.

Last year, a foundation hospital chairman was sacked by the independent
regulator for failing to address a 11.3m deficit accrued by the trust.

William Moyes, chairman of Monitor, took the step to remove John Ryan, chairman
of Bradford teaching hospitals, for not producing a credible recovery strategy
and to prevent Tony Blair's policy of promoting self-governing hospitals
becoming tainted by the risk of bankruptcy.

Overall, the 32 foundation trusts collectively have a 2m deficit on a combined
turnover of 6.6bn, with many now in surplus.

Sue Slipman, director of the Foundation Trust Network, said Monitor's half-year
report showed foundation trusts were weathering the financial pressures in the
NHS "better than some other organisations".

"This good performance - and the improved position of those who had financial
problems last year - reflects strengthening financial management among
foundation trusts as well as the rigours of the financial regime within which
foundation trusts operate," she said.

Meanwhile, NHS trusts without foundation status face a tough year ahead.

Patricia Hewitt, the health secretary, announced last month that she would
enforce a policy of zero tolerance on NHS deficits to squeeze out an overspend
of up to 700m in England by NHS trusts.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           December 17, 2005 Saturday

NHS staff are terrorised by 60 attacks every day

BYLINE: CAROLYN CHURCHILL

SECTION: ED SC1 04; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 324 words


MORE than 22,000 assaults were carried out on NHS staff in Scotland last year.

The catalogue of attacks more than 60 a day included sexual assaults and staff
being threatened with guns and knives, spat on, punched and verbally abused.

The shocking figures show that recent campaigns to stamp out violence in the NHS
are failing.

Anne Thomson, acting deputy director of the Royal College of Nursing, claimed
the number of nurses subjected to terrifying ordeals at work was soaring.

She said: 'Our members have been threatened with guns, knives and broken
bottles.

'Some were punched or hit with chairs, suffering broken noses and other
injuries. Nurses have also been sexually assaulted.' Miss Thomson said those who
visit patients' homes were at particular risk of being attacked.

She added: 'District nurses, health visitors and midwives go on their own into
houses and often don't know what kind of situation they are walking into.

'There could be people there under the influence of alcohol or drugs who may be
very violent.

Nurses are very vulnerable.' Last year, sex offender William Kerr, 34, was
jailed for life after brutally attacking on-duty nurse Pauline Dunnery while out
of jail on licence.

He threatened her with a knife before sexually assaulting her in Perth Royal
Infirmary. Later, Mrs Dunnery, 40, fronted a union campaign to highlight the
dangers faced by health staff.

She said: 'I thought I was never going to see my children again. I just kept
thinking, "I'm going to die, I'm going to die." The trauma this man has put me
through has been unimaginable.' Health unions have called for more security
measures in hospitals and want laws protecting emergency workers extended to
cover all NHS staff.

A Scottish Executive spokesman said: 'Violence and aggression against NHS staff
is unacceptable and must stop.

'NHS boards have the power to withhold treatment to violent patients in extreme
cases, but it shouldn't have to come to that.'

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 17, 2005 Saturday
                                 Lancs Edition

CITY STAR KNIFE ATTACK TERROR;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: BY PATRICK MULCHRONE AND DARREN LEWIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 144 words


A YOUNG Premiership footballer was threatened at knifepoint by a raider who
stripped his home of luxury goods.

Manchester City midfielder Willo Flood, 20, had a blade held to his throat
before the thief stole his plasma TV and computer, loaded it into his car and
sped off.

The Irish Under-21 star was watching TV alone in Sharston, Manchester, when the
man broke in and grabbed a knife from the kitchen.

He ordered Willo to remove the TV from the wall and was forced to watch as his
PC, radio, mobile, some clothing and cash were loaded into his Vauxhall Astra.

A source said: "They really cleaned him out."

Willo, who is recovering from a double hernia op, was not hurt in the raid and
raised the alarm after he was forced him to hand over the car keys. Manchester
City said staff have been to comfort the star.

Police are hunting a skinny white man in his mid-twenties.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ORDEAL: Willo Flood

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                           December 20, 2005 Tuesday

Woman describes terror of late-night sex attack

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 386 words


Dna evidence linked a man to a sex attack which took place four years earlier, a
court has been told.

A jury at Derby Crown Court heard yesterday that the alleged victim, who was a
student at the city's university, was attacked as she walked home after a night
out.

The young woman told the court she thought she was going to be killed after she
was grabbed from behind and sexually assaulted in the early hours of October 5,
2000.

Kevin Bramhall, of Foston Mews, Foston, was arrested four years later after DNA
evidence came to light.

He denies the charge of indecent assault.

Julie Warburton, prosecuting, told the jury the alleged assault took place while
the woman, whose identity is protected by law, walked along Windmill Hill Lane,
Derby.

She said: "This defendant grabbed her from behind by her shoulders and lowered
her to the floor, covered her mouth with his hand to stop her making a noise and
screaming."

Miss Warburton said the woman tried to  struggle free but was forced to the
ground and sexually assaulted.

She added that Bramhall (47) then dragged the student up a grass bank to some
bushes where he again indecently assaulted her before she eventually escaped.

A recording was played to the jury of what the prosecution says is the woman
making muffled screams for help during the attack. Miss Warburton said the
message was left on a mobile phone belonging to the woman's friend after her
number was accidentally dialled during the incident.

Bramhall was not detected by police until four years later when he was
questioned about another matter and a DNA sample was taken. This allegedly
matched DNA found on the student's clothing.

From behind screens in the witness stand, the woman told the court: "I remember
an arm coming round my chest and he had also grabbed me with the other hand and
pulled me on to the grass. I think I screamed and struggled."

She added: "I thought he might try and kill me."

In cross-examination, Mark van der Zwart said: "I suggest this man came up and
offered to walk you home. He put his  arm around you and you clung to him and
sexual activity started to happen between the two of you. Because you had had
too much to drink and other reasons you agreed to take part in sexual activity
with this strange man."

The woman adamantly denied this was the case.

The trial continues today.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                          December 21, 2005 Wednesday

Terror as gang attacks house

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 155 words


Residents in a North-east town were  terrified after a youth gang  attacked a
house.

More than 30 teenagers were involved, and threw objects  at a  house in
Peterhead's Heath Drive.

The occupants  were left shaken and alarmed but uninjured in the violent attack,
between 7.30pm and 8.30pm.

The locked garden gate at the front of the house  was forced open and damaged.

Investigating officer Pc Fiona McLeod said: "The incident was a frightening
experience for residents in the street.

"We would like to  remind parents of their responsibility with regard to being
aware of where their children are and how they conduct themselves.

"Reports of youth annoyance in the town are becoming increasingly frequent and
have a serious effect on the quality of life of the residents in the affected
areas.

"We at Grampian Police will not tolerate this type of anti-social behaviour and
will deal firmly with anyone caught in such circumstances."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Aberdeen Evening Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 21, 2005 Wednesday

Uzbek paper calls for protecting public transport against terror attacks

LENGTH: 245 words


It is necessary to secure public transport system in Uzbek capital from
terrorist attacks, the Xalq Sozi daily has said. An article, published on 20
December argues that terrorist acts in London, Tel Aviv and Moscow have
demonstrated that public transport became a target for terrorists.

In the view of this, "maintaining security in public transport in various
regions of the republic, especially in the capital, has become an urgent
matter".

The paper called on members of the public to be vigilant and report about
suspicious or unattended baggage in public transport, quoting Obidjon Qochqorov,
head of the security department of the Toshshaharyolovchitrans (Tashkent city
public transport) joint-stock company.

"Everyday each driver is briefed on one-to-one basis and given a route sheet in
line with an action plan to prevent terrorist acts in public transport. The
identity of every person entering the public transport depot is checked and no
strangers are allowed into the transport company's territory after 1700 hours.
There are night guards at each transport company. Every route sheet has hotline
numbers written on it. Such numbers are also written inside vehicles.

"It should be noted that security officers often board buses, trolley buses,
trams and other public transport vehicles together with traffic police to raise
drivers' vigilance," Qochqorov has said.

(About 1,000 words; no further processing planned)

Source: Xalq Sozi, Tashkent, in Uzbek 20 Dec 05 p2

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            The Independent (London)

                          December 21, 2005 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Police hold suspect over failed July 21 terror strike attacks

BYLINE: By Jason Bennetto Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 255 words


A suspected terrorist was arrested at Gatwick airport yesterday in connection
with the attempted suicide bomb attacks on London's transport network on 21
July. The 23-year-old British citizen from north London is believed to have left
Britain in June and was seized as he flew in from Ethiopia.

The suspect was being questioned on suspicion of providing logistical support to
the alleged extremists involved in the attempted bombings. He is not thought to
be a bomb maker or terrorist leader. He was arrested at 5am by unarmed police
officers, who were waiting for him as he disembarked from a flight from Addis
Ababa. There are unconfirmed reports that he had been arrested and later
released in Ethiopia by local police.

His home in Tottenham, north London, was searched on Friday last week, and
although papers and other material were removed, no explosives or bombmaking
equipment were discovered. Officers waited until he had left the plane before
arresting him.

The Metropolitan Police's anti-terrorist branch is thought to have wanted to
question him since his name came up during their investigations. His name would
have been logged on a ports and airports alert system that automatically
forewarns the authorities.

He was held by officers from Sussex Police and the Met's anti-terrorist branch
under the Terrorism Act 2000 and taken to Paddington Green police station in
central London. He is the 43rd person to be arrested in connection with the
investigation into the events of 21 July. So far, 15 people have been charged.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            December 23, 2005 Friday

Double rebuke for Bush as judges attack terror moves

BYLINE: Suzanne Goldenberg, Washington

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 406 words


President George Bush faced a rare challenge from the judiciary yesterday when
two courts questioned the legality of his expansion of presidential powers in
the war on terror.

In a startling rebuke, a federal appeals court refused to allow the transfer of
a terror suspect, Jose Padilla, from military to civilian custody and strongly
suggested that the Bush administration was trying to manipulate the judicial
system.

Meanwhile, the Washington Post reported that judges of the secret court
established under the foreign intelligence surveillance act (Fisa) had demanded
a briefing from Bush administration officials on why they believed it was legal
to bypass their authority and eavesdrop on the telephone conversations and email
of American citizens without a warrant.

The Fisa court had been in charge of issuing such warrants until 2002 when
President Bush signed orders enabling the National Security Agency to monitor
domestic communications without court oversight. The judges reportedly now fear
that the information thus obtained by the NSA was then being used improperly to
obtain wiretap approvals from Fisa courts.

Such challenges to the legal philosophy of an administration are exceedingly
rare, and arrive at a time of intense debate on the White House contention that
the war on terror justified an expansion of presidential power.

The administration suffered an additional rebuff when the senate bowed to civil
liberty concerns, agreeing to renew its trademark anti-terror legislation, the
Patriot Act, for a mere six months.

However, the rebuke from the fourth circuit court of appeal in Richmond,
Virginia, was especially surprising because the judges have a reputation as
conservatives, and have previously ruled in favour of the administration's
efforts to hold Padilla indefinitely without trial.

"It was difficult for me to think of another situation where a court has said
this to the government," said Carl Tobias of the University of Richmond law
school, who has written about the government's conduct of terrorism cases.

In its ruling, the court warned the Bush administration it risked giving "an
appearance that the purpose of these actions may be to avoid consideration of
our decision by the supreme court".

The judges also warned of the dangers of leaving the impression that Padilla had
been held for years by mistake, saying that could inflict "substantial cost to
the government's credibility before the courts".

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               December 23, 2005

THREAT OF TERRORIST ATTACKS AGAINST WESTERN TOURISTS IN INDONESIA

LENGTH: 27 words


US officials said yesterday the threat of terrorist attacks against Western
tourists in Indonesia over the Christmas and New Year holidays was "very high".


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Western Mail

                           December 23, 2005, Friday
                                 First Edition

Threat of terror attacks 'high'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 336 words


The threat of terrorist attacks targeting Westerners in Indonesia over the
Christmas and New Year holidays is very high, the US embassy said yesterday,
warning of possible kidnappings, shootings or suicide bombings.

Maps and explosives obtained in a police raid on a terrorist's hideout last
month indicated the al-Qaeda-linked militant group Jemaah Islamiyah was in the
advanced stages of planning attacks, the embassy said in an emailed message to
citizens.

Indonesian authorities also warned recently that Islamic extremists may be
planning to kidnap foreigners over the holidays, and a recently discovered
website provided step-by-step instructions on how to gun down Westerners in the
streets of Jakarta.

'The embassy reminds Americans that in recent years terrorist attacks have
occurred in Indonesia during the Christmas and New Year's holiday season,' the
US message said, calling on citizens to remain vigilant.

'The possibility of terrorist attacks appears even higher this year.'

The world's most populous Muslim nation has been hit by five suicide bombings
targeting Western interests since 2002 - including October 1 restaurant attacks
on the resort island of Bali - together killing more than 242 people.

Near simultaneous church bombings on Christmas Eve five years ago left another
19 dead.

Indonesian military chief Gen Endriartono Sutarto said thousands of troops would
join police in providing security over the two-week holiday.

Additional guards and patrols also were being deployed to protect officials,
diplomats and foreigners from potential kidnappings, said police deputy
spokesman Anton Bachrul Alam.

Though Jemaah Islamiyah's bomb-making expert Azhari bin Husin was killed in a
police raid on his hideout last month, authorities have repeatedly warned that
the terror group was still capable of carrying out attacks.

Dozens of bombs and maps were found, and a videotape showed a hooded man
threatening attacks on American, Australian, Italian and British citizens for
their support of the war in Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               December 24, 2005

Salmond terror law attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 50 words



HIGHLIGHT: Alex Salmond


SNP leader Alex Salmond wants clarification over the impact of new terror laws
on Scotland.

He has said Scottish Secretary Alistair Darling must make clear whether Scots
law has been sidelined or not.

Mr Salmond said Lord Advocate Colin Boyd wasn't consulted on Scots law
implications of the legislation.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 26, 2005 Monday

"Chemical terror attack" foiled in shops in Russia's second city - TV

LENGTH: 297 words


Text of report by Russian Channel One TV on 26 December

[Presenter Vyacheslav Kriskevich] At the beginning, here is an urgent report
from St Petersburg. There has been an attempt at a terrorist attack with the use
of chemical substances there. It is possible that it was simply an act of
hooliganism. The information was confirmed at the local directorate of the FSB
[Federal Security Service]. And we will now get details of the incident from our
correspondent by telephone. Olga, over to you.

[Correspondent] Yes, Vyacheslav. We have indeed obtained confirmation from the
FSB press service that boxes containing wires, glass tubes and electronic timers
were simultaneously discovered this morning in four shops of the same chain
specializing in household goods. According to preliminary information, it was
possible to isolate the devices in three shops of the chain. In one of the shops
the device was even taken outside and put into snow in a bowl of a fountain.

But in the shop in Moskovskiy Prospekt [Avenue], there was, unfortunately, a
leak of some gas. And according to the confirmation that we obtained at the
press centre of the health care committee of St Petersburg, 66 people have now
been taken to hospital. Nothing is known about the degree of possible poisoning.
An FSB mine disposal team and chemists are working at the scene. The shops are
cordoned-off and customers are being evacuated.

Over to you, Vyacheslav.

[Presenter] Yes, we will be waiting for new details. This was Olga Martisova
from St Petersburg.

[RIA Novosti, Moscow, in Russian 1231 gmt 26 Dec 05 reported that "78 people
have sought medical help over poisoning by unknown gas in two shopping centres
of St Petersburg, 66 were taken to hospital".]

Source: Channel One TV, Moscow, in Russian 1200 gmt 26 Dec 05

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 26, 2005 Monday

Police rule out terrorism in St Petersburg attack

LENGTH: 195 words


Text of report by Russian news agency Interfax

St Petersburg, 26 December: The main reason for the poisoning in the Maksidom
chain of shops in St Petersburg is unscrupulous competition, the head of the
information service at the Main Directorate of Internal Affairs [MDIA] for St
Petersburg and Leningrad Region, Vyacheslav Stepchenko, told Interfax on Monday
[26 December].

"At present it has been established that the tubes discovered in four Maksidom
shops contained the substance mercaptan which is used for aromatic effect in
civil self-defence and which has no long-term effect. The main symptoms are
dryness in the mouth and vomiting, which all the casualties experienced,"
Stepchenko said, adding that the substance escaped from the tubes in two of the
four shops.

"The main theory is unscrupulous competition, since not long before today's
incident the Maksidom management approached the MDIA after they had started
receiving letters with threats to spoil their New Year trade," Stepchenko said.

"Now one can say with certainty that in this case a terrorist act is fully ruled
out," Stepchenko stressed.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1340 gmt 26 Dec 05

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Bath Chronicle

                           December 27, 2005 Tuesday

Terror attack advice posted on web

BYLINE: David Lewins

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 336 words


Advice on what to do in the event of a terrorist attack and how to cope with
severe weather conditions is now being issued through a council website.

New pages have been added to Bath and North East Somerset Council's website,
which can be quickly updated in the event of a emergency.

The new pages include a "current security status" which is based on early
warning information from the police.

At the moment, the message says the council's Emergency Management Unit "can
confirm that there is no known specific or reported threat to the community,
buildings and property in B&NES".

But the majority of information is devoted to advice and information.

The "incident information" part of the site refers to the London bombings and
gives advice on what people should do if they notice something suspicious.

The "severe weather" section offers advice to pedestrians and motorists in the
event of a cold snap, as well as urging people to keep an eye out for elderly
neighbours.

Gordon Hector, head of emergency management at B&NES, said the website triumphed
over printed leaflets because it could be quickly updated without the cost of a
new print run.

"Obviously if there is an emergency our first thought will not be to update the
website, but we will be able to update it when we get information," he said.

"The site can also be added to and amended, so the severe weather section might
refer to cold now, but in spring it could be about floods.

"A lot of it is about information to be prepared. If there is an emergency, and
people are properly prepared, then we will come out of it much better.

"It's about being alert but not alarmed."

He added: "We accept that some people still do not have access to the internet
and general advice information will  still be produced in printed form. But we
can only do this with long-term advice because of the cost involved in
printing."

The pages  can be accessed throughwww.bathnes.gov. uk  - click on 'emergency' in
the orange box at the top left of the page.

d.lewins@bathchron.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 27, 2005 Tuesday

Russian foreign minister condemns terror attacks in Lebanon

LENGTH: 202 words


Text of report by Russian news agency ITAR-TASS

Moscow, 27 December: Russia supports the establishment of an intra-Lebanese
dialogue and the preservation of civic peace and accord in Lebanon, Russian
Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said today at a meeting in Moscow with the
prominent politician and former Lebanese foreign minister, Jean Ubayd.

According to the Russian ministry, Lavrov sharply condemned the series of
terrorist acts in Lebanon and stressed "the importance of stabilizing the
situation in the region and preventing the emergence of new dangerous
flashpoints of tension there".

The main attention during the talks was devoted to the situation concerning
Syria and Lebanon in the light of implementation of UN Security Council
resolution 1559, and also resolutions 1636 and 1644 on the reports of the
international independent commission investigating the circumstances of the
killing of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafiq al-Hariri. Both sides noted "the
need to establish the full truth about the crime, and expressed support for
continuing the investigations, which should not be used to achieve short-term
political objectives".

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1530 gmt 27 Dec 05

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           December 27, 2005 Tuesday

Ten attempted terror attacks in London since 9/11, says mayor

BYLINE: Jonathan Milne

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 250 words


Terrorists have tried to attack London 10 times in the four years since
September 11, the mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, claimed yesterday, but he
insisted the threat to the capital was disorganised and not part of an
international conspiracy.

Mr Livingstone said eight attacks had been foiled between the attacks on New
York in 2001 and the tube and bus bombings in London in July this year. Two
attacks had been attempted since the July 7 deaths, he said, including the
failed attempt to detonate bombs on the transport network two weeks later.

Mr Livingstone, speaking on BBC Radio 4, did not provide any further details
about the attempted attacks, and his office referred further inquiries to the
Metropolitan police. He denied any "great organised international conspiracy"
against the capital, as suggested by some ministers and police lobbying for
extended powers to hold suspected terrorists in custody. "Largely what you're
talking about is fairly disorganised and small groups of disaffected people," he
said in the pre-recorded interview, which was aired yesterday.

The Met have been reluctant to disclose numbers and dates of foiled attacks for
security reasons. Sir Ian Blair, the Met commissioner, did, however, disclose
earlier this month that the authorities had thwarted several attacks since July
7, resulting in charges and some deportations.

President George Bush said two months ago that 10 al-Qaida plots had been foiled
in the past four years, including three involving UK targets.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                     December 29, 2005 Thursday 2:19 AM GMT

One killed, four injured in suspected terrorist attack in India's Bangalore

LENGTH: 470 words


BANGALORE, India (AFX) - A professor was killed and four people were injured
when a suspected terrorist opened fire during an international conference here
yesterday, police said.

Police said the shooting at the Indian Institute of Science, one of the oldest
universities in the country, may have been a terrorist attack.

'Four persons were injured and one died. Of the injured, one is in a critical
condition,' said B. S. Sial, director general of police in Karnataka state, of
which Bangalore is the capital. 'Some terrorist person is involved.'

President Abdul Kalam and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh expressed shock at the
professor's death and offered condolences to his family.

The interior ministry called an emergency meeting in capital New Delhi and an
alert was sounded across Bangalore. Police said the conference on infrastructure
development may have been targeted because of the prominence of the institute.

Officers found one Ak-47 automatic rifle, a live grenade and 11 empty cartridges
at the site which was cordoned off. Although only one person opened fire on
delegates, police said the attacker may have had accomplices. They declined to
give details.

'It was like crackers exploding. Suddenly I saw one man falling. He said 'I have
been shot. Call an ambulance.' That's when I realised that some firing was
happening,' said A.N. Sukumaran, a security supervisor who witnessed the
shooting. The intruder escaped under the cover of darkness.

The shooting sparked panic among delegates who frantically tried to find friends
and colleagues.

The conference had just ended with most of the 250 Indian delegates and 35
visiting ones leaving for dinner. None of the foreign participants were injured.

Bangalore police appealed on television to residents to report anything
suspicious.

'This can yield some clues,' said Ajay Kumar Singh, Bangalore police
commissioner.

Bangalore, an outsourcing hub, is home to more than 1,500 domestic and foreign
technology firms. India's intelligence agencies have in the past warned of
terrorist attacks on these firms.

But Karnataka police chief Sial said he had not received any intelligence about
an attack. And he said it is unclear if the gunman was targeting a particular
delegate at the conference.

'We did not get any intelligence reports from the (federal) agencies. We
generally get some during important days such as New Year's. You cannot call it
a security lapse,' Sial said.

'The police is yet to get information on how many persons are involved in the
attack. Most of the people (witnesses) we talked to are recovering from the
shock or are scared,' he said.

'At the moment, night patrolling has been intensified. More policemen have been
deployed and a search is on to nab the culprit. The institute did not request
for police protection or deployment,' he said.

jay/pg/tha

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                    AFX.COM

                     December 29, 2005 Thursday 2:19 AM GMT

One killed, four injured in suspected terrorist attack in India's Bangalore

LENGTH: 90 words


BANGALORE, India (AFX) - A professor was killed and four people were injured
when a suspected terrorist opened fire during an international conference here
yesterday, police said.

Police said the shooting at the Indian Institute of Science, one of the oldest
universities in the country, may have been a terrorist attack.

'Four persons were injured and one died. Of the injured, one is in a critical
condition,' said B. S. Sial, director general of police in Karnataka state, of
which Bangalore is the capital. 'Some terrorist person is involved.'

President Abdul Kalam and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh expressed shock at the
professor's death and offered condolences to his family.

The interior ministry called an emergency meeting in capital New Delhi and an
alert was sounded across Bangalore. Police said the conference on infrastructure
development may have been targeted because of the prominence of the institute.

Officers found one Ak-47 automatic rifle, a live grenade and 11 empty cartridges
at the site which was cordoned off. Although only one person opened fire on
delegates, police said the attacker may have had accomplices. They declined to
give details.

'It was like crackers exploding. Suddenly I saw one man falling. He said 'I have
been shot. Call an ambulance.' That's when I realised that some firing was
happening,' said A.N. Sukumaran, a security supervisor who witnessed the
shooting. The intruder escaped under the cover of darkness.

The shooting sparked panic among delegates who frantically tried to find friends
and colleagues.

The conference had just ended with most of the 250 Indian delegates and 35
visiting ones leaving for dinner. None of the foreign participants were injured.

Bangalore police appealed on television to residents to report anything
suspicious.

'This can yield some clues,' said Ajay Kumar Singh, Bangalore police
commissioner.

Bangalore, an outsourcing hub, is home to more than 1,500 domestic and foreign
technology firms. India's intelligence agencies have in the past warned of
terrorist attacks on these firms.

But Karnataka police chief Sial said he had not received any intelligence about
an attack. And he said it is unclear if the gunman was targeting a particular
delegate at the conference.

'We did not get any intelligence reports from the (federal) agencies. We
generally get some during important days such as New Year's. You cannot call it
a security lapse,' Sial said.

'The police is yet to get information on how many persons are involved in the
attack. Most of the people (witnesses) we talked to are recovering from the
shock or are scared,' he said.

'At the moment, night patrolling has been intensified. More policemen have been
deployed and a search is on to nab the culprit. The institute did not request
for police protection or deployment,' he said.

jay/pg/tha

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2005 AFX News Limited

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 29, 2005 Thursday

Indian police recover grenades, ammunition after Bangalore "terror attack"

LENGTH: 318 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Bangalore, 28 December [date as carried]: Police Thursday [29 December] did not
rule out the involvement of Pakistan-based Lashkar-i-Toiba (LIT) in the terror
attack at the premier Indian Institute of Science (IISc) campus here as two more
hand grenades were recovered from the premises. Speaking to reporters at the
J.N. Tata auditorium complex, the scene of terrorist attack which left dead a
retired professor of Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, and wounded four
others, Police Commissioner Ajay Kumar Singh did not rule out the hand of the
Pakistan-based terrorist outfit, which reportedly had the IISc on its hit list.

He also did not rule out involvement of more than one person in the attack on
delegates who were emerging out of an international conference. Police sources
said two more hand grenades were recovered this morning during the combing
operation, in addition to the one live grenade packed in a cotton pouch found
last night soon after the attack. An AK-47 like weapon, 11 empty cartridges and
two live magazines of an automatic weapon were also recovered Wednesday. Police
said the attack looked like a "well planned one".

Organizers of the annual convention of Operational Research Society of India
have, meanwhile, shifted the venue to another place. Suspected terrorists had
barged into the IISc campus and sprayed bullets indiscriminately, killing M.C.
Puri, professor emeritus in Mathematics Department of Delhi, IIT, and wounding
four others.

Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Narayana Gowda said the live hand grenades
had been defused. He said the police have so far recovered six magazines,
including one empty and another half used, and 12 empty cartridges. Gowda said
it appeared that the terrorists did not come in a vehicle and that they escaped
by scaling the wall.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0857 gmt 29 Dec 05

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2005 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                           December 29, 2005 Thursday

Web guide on how to cope in event of terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 52

LENGTH: 280 words


Advice on what to do in the event of a terrorist attack or how to cope with
other emergencies has been posted on a council website.

Bath and North East Somerset has added the pages to its current website and they
can be quickly updated in the event of an attack or an emergency.

Information on the "current  security status" will be supplied by the police
based on their assessment of the latest threats.

At present the authority's Emergency and Management Unit said on the site that
it  "can confirm that there is no known specific or  reported threat to the
community, buildings and property in B&NES".

But it does contain advice people can follow in the wake of the London bombings
and how to report anything suspicious.

Severe weather can also bring its own problems and the site has  advice on how
to cope and urges people to keep an eye out for  vulnerable neighbours.

Gordon Hector, who is in  charge of the council's emergency planning, said the
website could get information to people  more quickly than leaflets or advice
booklets.

He said: "Obviously if there is an emergency our first thought will not be to
update the website, but we will be able to update it when we get information.

"The site can also be added to and amended, so the severe weather section might
refer to cold now, but in spring it could be about floods.

"It's about being alert but not alarmed.

"We accept that some people still do not have access to the internet and general
advice information will be produced in printed form. But we can only do this
with long-term advice because of the cost involved in printing."

People can access the site  on www.bathnews.gov.uk then select emergency in the
orange box.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               December 29, 2005

2005: A YEAR TO REMEMBER;
HOLD THE FRONT PAGE From the tsunami to terrorist attacks, the G8 to the royal
wedding, the Evening Times was there to bring you the latest news

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1714 words


JANUARY

THE year started with the news that Luke Mitchell had been convicted of the
murder of his 14-year-old girlfriend, Jodi Jones, of Dalkeith, Midlothian.

Judge Lord Nimmo Smith told the 16-year-old he would not be released until 2024
for what he described as "one of the worst cases of murder of a single victim to
have come before the court in many years".

Scotland came to a standstill when it was battered by the worst storms in more
than a decade. Trains, buses and ferries were cancelled as 124mph winds swept
the country and a family-of-five were swept to their deaths in South Uist as
they tried to flee the area.

Actor Ford Kiernan, of Chewin' The Fat fame, was fined GBP3500 for a attack on a
Glasgow taxi driver after a row over a parking space at a west end supermarket.

Almost 200 Britons were reported dead or missing following the Asian tsunami.
The final British death toll was 144.

FEBRUARY

PRINCE Charles announced he was to wed Camilla Parker Bowles.

It was reported they would marry in a civil ceremony in Windsor Castle in April
and then honeymoon at Birkhall on Royal Deeside. It was also made clear Camilla
would be known as the princess consort when Charles became king.

We told how 550 crimes were committed in the Strathclyde Police force area every
day, but less than half those reported were solved.

Maxine Carr, the former girlfriend of Soham murderer Ian Huntley, was granted an
indefinite High Court order stopping her new identity being reported. Huntley
would be told later in the year he must serve a minimum 40-year-jail sentence
before being considered for parole.

Liz Lochhead was named Glasgow's new poet laureate and round-the-world sailing
record breaker Ellen MacArthur arrived home to a rapturous welcome and the news
she had been made a dame.

MARCH

THE month started with the horrific news that a toddler, shot in the head with
an airgun pellet, had died. Andrew Morton, two, lost his fight for life at the
specialist head injury unit at Glasgow's Southern General Hospital.

The toddler, from Easterhouse, was watching firefighters close to his home in
Cambusdoon Road, Craigend, when he was shot with an airgun. Mark Bonini, 27, was
jailed for 13 years for his murder.

It was revealed that congestion on the city's Kingston Bridge was costing the
country's economy GBP20million a year.

Prince Charles was caught out, muttering compaints about the press during a ski
trip to Klosters.

A powerful 8.7-magnitude earthquake struck off Indonesia's west coast, killing
hundreds of people.

And Rangers began their trophy haul by beating Motherwell 5-1 in the League Cup
final at Hampden.

APRIL

POPE John Paul II died on April 2 at 9.37pm and Catholics across the world
mourned the passing of the "People's Pontiff".

At one point 18,000 mourners an hour were passing his body as it lay in state at
the Vatican in Rome. His funeral was attended by two million people.

The doors closed on a British institution as car-maker Rover shut. More than
6000 workers were made redundant as a deal with a Chinese buyer fell through.

A 26-year-old mother, Abigail Witchalls, was critically injured in a stabbing as
she pushed her son in a buggy in a lane in Surrey.

A study found Glaswegian men have a life expectancy of 69 years - identical to
men living in the city 100 years ago.

World champion boxer Scott Harrison was banned from every pub in East Kilbride
after a series of alleged drunken bust-ups.

Actor Sir John Mills, who won an Oscar for his role in Ryan's Daughter, died. He
was 97.

MAY

THERE were heavy hearts in the east end of Glasgow as Martin O'Neill revealed he
would be leaving Celtic at the end of the season.

The manager who took the team to the Uefa Cup final in 2003, quit football to
nurse his wife Geraldine, who is fighting cancer.

Tony Blair clinched an unprecedented third term for Labour at the General
Election, but with a vastly reduced Commons majority.

The "house of blood" trial ended as Eileen McAlinden, her son John and Jamie
Gray all admitted to slaying Ian Mitchell, Anthony Coyle and David Gillespie in
a south side flat. The victims were attacked with boiling water, golf clubs and
electric drills. Their attackers were jailed for a total of 37 years.

Thousands of people attended events marking the 60th anniversary of VE Day.

And against the odds, Rangers picked up the SPL title in a last day of the
season thriller at Easter Road, beating Hibs 1-0 while Celtic lost to Motherwell
2-1.

JUNE

WE revealed a civil disobedience group that was planning to cause disruption at
the G8 summit at Gleneagles had set up its HQ in a disused Glasgow factory.

The parents of murdered prostitute Emma Caldwell, from Erskine, made an
emotional plea for help from the public to find her killer. The 27-year-old had
been murdered in April but the police were no further forward in their
inquiries.

Music was in the news. The SECC in Glasgow revealed profits of GBP28million and,
despite rumours to the contrary, the owners of the Barrowland said the venue
would stay open.

All the big bands came to the city. R.E.M. had a sell-out show on Glasgow Green
and Oasis and U2 played to 55,000 each at Hampden.

Pop star Michael Jackson was cleared of all 10 charges of molesting a boy and
giving alcohol to children by a jury in Santa Maria, California.

JULY

THE month began with the worst terrorist attack to strike the UK mainland.

On July 7, three homegrown suicide bombers set off bombs on London Tube trains
and a fourth blew himself up on a bus, killing 52 people.

Brazilian Jean Charles de Menezes was shot five times by undercover police after
being suspected of being a bomber. He turned out to be an electrician.

Terrorist attacks also took place in Turkey and in the holiday resort of Sharm
el Sheikh in Egypt. Ten Britons were killed in the bombings.

Leaders of the world's most powerful nations descended on Gleneagles for the G8
summit, and brought chaos to the sleepy locale as protesters also arrived.

Live 8 was a success as shows in Hyde Park and at Murrayfield saw rock stars bid
to help clear Third World debt.

And London beat Paris by 54 votes to 50 to be chosen to host the 2012 Olympic
Games.

AUGUST

TWO of the country's most respected MPs died in August.

On August 6, former cabinet minister Robin Cook died at the age of 59 after
suffering a heart attack while hillwalking on Ben Stack in Sutherland.

Mo Mowlam, a former cabinet colleague of Mr Cook, died on August 19.

She had battled serious illness since being diagnosed with a brain tumour in
1999. She was 55.

Rory Blackhall was murdered in Livingston. Simon Harris, the man suspected of
killing the 11-year-old schoolboy, hanged himself as police closed in.

As more than 18,000 people signed up to take part in the Great Scottish Run -
the highest number of participants in the event's history- Jack McConnell and
the city council got into the starting blocks to kick off the campaign to secure
the 2014 Commonwealth Games for Glasgow.

SEPTEMBER

LABOUR MSP Mike Watson was jailed for 16 months for setting fire to curtains at
an Edinburgh hotel after a political awards ceremony last year.

The 56-year-old was caught on CCTV starting a fire in the Prestonfield House
Hotel after the Scottish Politician of the Year Awards.

The fire caused GBP4500 worth of damage. Police officers in Strathclyde became
the first in Scotland to carry Taser guns. The weapons send 50,000 volts through
their target, causing temporary paralysis.

Four runners died as the warm weather took its toll on competitors in the 25th
Great North Run in Newcastle.

And there was a "Drum" role for Ikea at the announcement that the Swedish
furniture giant would be helping transform Drumchapel by supplying more than
1200 pre-fabricated homes as part of a GBP100million regeneration scheme.

OCTOBER

WEcalled on Health Minister Andy Kerr and the First Minister to bring the city's
health chiefs into line as they pronounced that the Southern General was the
only site suitable for the new Yorkhill to replace the Sick Kids' Hospital and
the Queen Mum's.

A survey revealed that Buchanan Street was one of the shopping wonders of the
world with just six streets across the globe commanding higher rental rates than
the city-centre thoroughfare.

Drivers on the M74 had to deal with a fairly unusual obstacle - the road and
other routes in the city were turned into skating rinks after a tanker carrying
a load of lard developed a leak and laid a 25-mile slick of the sticky stuff on
to local roads.

Ronnie Corbett led tributes to his comedy partner, Ronnie Barker, who died aged
76.

And a dead parrot left nobody laughing after it was discovered it had died from
bird flu while quarantined in Britain.

NOVEMBER

THE footballing world fell silent as one of the true stars of the beautiful
game, George Best, died.

Years of alcoholism took their toll on the 59-year-old's health and he died in
the intensive care unit at a London hospital.

The pensions commission said that people would have to work until they were 68
and save more to stave off a national pensions crisis.

It revealed that a 30-year-old man earning GBP20,000 hoping to retire at the age
of 65 would have to save GBP260 a month.

David Blunkett resigned from the cabinet for the second time in 12 months after
controversy over financial links with DNA Bioscience and other firms.

A team of French surgeons made history by carrying out the world's first face
transplant.

And after 40 years, Castlemilk's "jeely piece flats" were demolished.

DECEMBER

CELTIC stole the headlines when a football legend arrived in the city to sign
for the club he supported as a boy.

Manchester United's Roy Keane put pen to paper on an 18-month deal with Celtic.

There was reason for celebration among Rangers fans too as the club became the
first Scottish team to qualify for the quarter-finals stage of the Champions
League.

There was dismay as Royal Mail announced it intended to close the city's Hope
Street Post Office, which has been in operation since 1937.

A massive blaze wiped out the Buncefield oil depot near Hemel Hempstead. In
total, 20 petrol tanks were involved, each said to hold three million gallons of
fuel.

And one of the giants of Scottish politics returned to the streets of Glasgow
standing two metres taller.

The statue of Donald Dewar returned to Buchanan Street, raised on a granite
plinth.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                           December 29, 2005 Thursday

Bat attack terror

LENGTH: 73  words


A MOTHER and son were rushed to hospital after a baseball bat attack at their
home.

The pair were in the house in

Carrickfergus when three masked men burst in.

The 16-year-old boy suffered a wound to his forehead and bruising to his back,
arms and hands. His 33-year-old mum was struck on the back of the head.

Their injuries were not said to be life-threatening.

Police are not ruling out paramilitary involvement in the attack on Tuesday
night.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          December 31, 2005, Saturday
                                 Mersey Edition

Terror attack heroes granted pride of place for 'immense strength of spirit'

BYLINE: DEBORAH JAMES Daily Post Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 516 words


CELEBRITY chef Gordon Ramsay, veteran entertainer Bruce Forsyth, and singer Tom
Jones are among the showbusiness personalities on the Queen's New Year's Honours
List, published today.

There is anticipated recognition for Lord Sebastian Coe, who receives a
knighthood for his role securing the 2012 Olympics for London, and the title of
Dame goes to Vivienne Westwood, already known as the "Grand Dame" of British
fashion.

But it is the extraordinary valour and "immense strength of spirit and courage"
shown by the heroes and heroines of the July 7 terror attacks in London which
claim pride of place in this year's list.

The honours go to those members of the emergency services and others who,
regardless of the dangers to themselves, ran into tunnels, aided and comforted
the injured and carried them to safety, from the three London Underground trains
and the bus attacked by suicide bombers.

Among them is tube driver John Boyle, 48, who helped rescue injured passengers
after he was first on the scene at Aldgate, who receives an MBE.

Grandfather Mr Boyle, from Essex, employed by London Underground for 16 years,
was off duty but in uniform when he was passing King's Cross Tube station on
July 7.

He described how he went to search for survivors 30 metres into the tunnel,
after asking a colleague who was in tears, to call the emergency services.

He said: "I saw bodies lying on the track.

"It was like a scene of horror from a war film. It was clear there was nothing I
could do for these people."

Mr Boyle, who has a daughter, Nicola, 32, and 22-year-old twin sons John and
Robert, managed to clear virtually the entire train of about 500 people, despite
his fears there would be another explosion.

Singer Tom Jones's family yesterday said they are delighted the star is getting
a "well-deserved" knighthood.

His first cousin, Dorothy Woodward, of Caerphilly, south Wales, said: "He will
be absolutely over the moon. He was thrilled when he had the OBE.

"To be honest, I think it's well deserved."

Also on the list is fashion designer Vivienne Westwood, 64, who becomes a Dame
more than three decades since she originated the punk look with early designs
featuring safety pins, razor blades, lavatory chains and spiked dog collars.

Gordon Ramsay managed to restrain his famously colourful tongue after learning
of his OBE yesterday. The Glasgow-born chef, 39, said he was "humbled and
delighted" to receive the honour, awarded for services to the hospitality
industry.

Journalist and television presenter Peter Snow, master of the "swingometer",
receives a CBE for services to broadcasting, Harry Potter star Robbie Coltrane,
is awarded an OBE, and legendary entertainer Bruce Forsyth said he would be
"quick stepping with delight" at his CBE. Four Britons who dedicated the last
year to helping victims of the Asian tsunami are also commended on the list for
their actions after the devastating waves tore through the region.

The man who led the British police response to the Boxing Day tsunami, Deputy
Assistant Commissioner John Yates, was awarded the Queen's Police Medal.

deborahjames@dailypost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bruce Forsyth

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 3, 2006 Tuesday

Belarus unit prevented some 100 terror attacks since 1991 - Interior Ministry

LENGTH: 253 words


Text of report in English by Belarusian news agency Belapan

Minsk, 3 January: The Almaz anti-terror unit has prevented some 100 terror
attacks, defused 41 improvised explosive devices, released 106 hostages and
nabbed more than 4,500 grave crime suspects over its 15-year history.

In addition, the unit seized 464 firearms, 24,300 ammunition items, around 1,000
kilograms of explosives and 185 kilograms of narcotic drugs, the Belarusian
Interior Ministry's information and public relations department told Belapan.

Interior Minister Uladzimir Navumaw, the heads of law-enforcement agencies and
security services attended a ceremony marking the unit's 15th anniversary on 2
January.

[President] Alyaksandr Lukashenka, in his telegram, greeted the Almaz personnel
on the anniversary.

The unit was established in 1991 with a view to combating crime and preventing
prison riots. It was placed under direct command of the interior minister in
1994, with its functions expanded to include preventing terror attacks, handling
hostage situations, arresting armed offenders and criminal groups, as well as
guarding top government officials, foreign delegations, court judges and the
heads of law-enforcement and control agencies.

At present, state-of-the-art foreign-made weapons are in service with Almaz. The
unit is equipped with modern vehicles and special-purpose technologies, each
member has reliable security and communication means, and professional-level
gear.

Source: Belapan news agency, Minsk, in English 1630 gmt 3 Jan 06

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 4, 2006 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Hindus caught in backlash after July 7 terror attacks

BYLINE: By Jason Bennetto

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 333 words


A rising number of Hindus are the victims of hate crimes, partly as a backlash
from the London suicide bombings, Britain's largest Hindu organisation has said.

A telephone hotline to report attacks is being set up to help the 700,000 Hindus
in this country.

Ramesh Kallidai, secretary general of the Hindu Forum of Britain, said 'hate
crime' incidents ranged from verbal and physical attacks on worshippers to
graffiti and vandalism at Hindu temples. In one of the most recent attacks
paving slabs with swastikas scratched on them were thrown through the windows at
a hall in Basingstoke, Hampshire, while a religious meeting was taking place.

Mr Kallidai said there was evidence that Hindus and their temples had been
targeted following the 7 July bomb attacks in London, even though the terrorists
had been Muslim.

The Hindu Forum, which represents 260 Hindu organisation in Britain, has
arranged security training for volunteers to prevent attacks at Hindu temples.

Hindu groups are pressing the Home Office and police to keep separate records of
religiously motivated attacks on Hindus. At present the figures are collected
only for racial groups.

The British Crime Survey found that the number of racially-motivated incidents
in England and Wales has quadrupled since 1993 to about 50,000.

Mr Kallidai said: 'After 7/7 there was an increase in attacks on Hindus because
of mistaken identity. For almost 90 per cent of the south Asian community you
cannot tell which religion a particular person belongs to.'

The 'hate crime' hotline, due to start later this year, could also incorporate a
service aimed at young people and is modelled on the success of the Muslim Youth
Helpline.

The introduction of the service will coincide with a campaign to encourage
Hindus to report hate crime.

Britain's Hindu population is based mainly in the London and Leicester areas,
and in parts of Birmingham, Leeds, Bradford, Wolverhampton and Coventry.

Most Hindus in Britain are of Gujarati, Punjabi or Tamil ethnic origin.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                           January 4, 2006 Wednesday

Capital alert for terrorist attacks

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 85 words


A Poster campaign which aims to make it harder for terrorists to operate in
London was launched by Scotland Yard yesterday.

Almost six months to the day after the July 7 bombings, the campaign is aimed at
keeping up the level of public vigilance.

One poster warns that terrorists could use the River Thames - either to mount an
attack or as a means of moving materials or conducting reconnaissance.

Others urge landlords, residents worried about their neighbours, garage owners
and shopkeepers to be on the alert.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 5, 2006 Thursday

Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman condemns "terrorist" attacks in Iraq

LENGTH: 283 words


Text of report in English by Iranian Fars News Agency website

Tehran: Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman strongly condemned the terrorist acts
in Iraq and the barbaric terrorist operation in the vicinity of the sacred
shrine of Imam Husayn in the holy city of Karbala.

"Under conditions when Iraqi nation and officials are making serious efforts to
establish a permanent government in that country, there are some elements who do
not favour restoration of calm and security and massacre the innocent people in
an attempt to drive the society into turmoil and a state of insecurity," Hamid
Reza Asefi said according to a statement released by the general office of
information of the Iranian foreign ministry.

He added that in addition to the Iraqi pilgrims there were some Iranian pilgrims
among those wounded in the terrorist attack which took place in the vicinity of
the holy shrine of Imam Husayn, the third Imam of Shiites, today

The Iranian official also reiterated, "the Islamic Republic of Iran expects the
Iraqi government to take decisive measures in order to identify, arrest and
punish those responsible for the terrorist act and guarantee pilgrims'
security."

Asefi censured the alien forces deployed in Iraq for their poor performance in
carrying out the duties entrusted to them by the UN Security Council resolutions
to safeguard security of that country, terming them incapable of and lacking
authority to establish security in Iraq.

Islamic Republic of Iran has already declared its preparedness for the immediate
transfer of those wounded in the incident to the closest Iranian medical centres
for urgent treatment.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1405 gmt 5 Jan 06

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Peterborough Evening Telegraph

                                January 6, 2006

TERRORIST ATTACK: 'Bodies were piled up in the train and we just couldn't get
any further down the carriage'

LENGTH: 835 words


Tomorrow marks the six-month anniversary of the terrorist attacks on London's
transport network. More than 50 people were killed on the morning of July 7, and
many of those who survived have been mentally or physically scarred for life.
Andrew Papworth spoke to Ray Wright, an Underground driver from Peterborough,
who was in the cab of one of the Tube trains attacked.

WHEN Ray Wright hitched a lift to work he had no idea of the horrors he was to
witness a few minutes later.

He had barely uttered a work to his colleague, who was driving the Tube train on
July 7, when a terrorist attack changed his life forever.

Ray (54) was sitting in the driver's cab of the train travelling between
Liverpool Street and Aldgate train at 8.50am when suicide bomber Shehzad Tanweer
detonated his deadly device.

Ray escaped injury as the bomb was detonated on the second carriage of the
train.

But the aftermath of the explosion left a deep emotional scar, and he says his
memory of the tragedy continues to haunt him until this day.

Speaking for the first time about the horrific attack on his train, which killed
seven people and injured at least 100 more, Ray, of Fletton Avenue,
Peterborough, described how he witnessed terrifying scenes of panic among the
bloodied passengers.

After the explosion, he got off the train, and along with the driver, Tom Nairn,
he began calming the crowd and leading them to safety to Aldgate station.

He described awful scenes of dead bodies, broken and severed limbs and metal
carnage.

He still shudders at the memory of the horrible screams and moans of the
seriously injured.

Ray said: "It was a very unreal experience. The tunnel looked like a hospital in
a warzone because there were bodies everywhere. It was almost as if World War
Three had broken out."

Ray said the was an almighty explosion, followed by an eerie silence as the
tunnel was plunged into darkness by the lights failing.

The chilling quiet was soon broken by the moans of pain and calls for help.

He added: "Everything was dead. There was no communication with the passengers
or with the control room and there were no lights.

"We went out of the driver's cab and forced the door open on the first car. We
had to shout above the screaming. Everyone was screaming."

Eventually, he managed to calm some of the passengers down and sent a message
down a human chain to let all the passengers know that they needed to evacuate
the tunnel.

Ray then went from car to car of the train, helping people make their way up the
track. He comforted and calmed those he could, but his efforts came to an abrupt
halt when he ripped open the door where the suicide bomber had struck.

"I went into that car and it was just littered with bodies," he said. "There
were two people who had lost their left legs and we just held their hands and
reassured them until help was on the way.

"Bodies were piled up in the train and we just couldn't get any further down the
carriage."

When he got to Aldgate station, he had to physically haul people up a tall
spiral staircase because the lifts were out of action.

His nightmare finally came to an end when he reached other Underground staff and
alerted to them to the seriousness of the situation and let them take over.

He immediately took two weeks off to get over the trauma of everything he
witnessed that day, but plucked up the courage to return to work.

On his first day back, he had someone sit with him to give him reassurance and
keep him company. But the memories will never leave him.

"I still have a lot of problems and leaving King's Cross is still a very
stressful experience," he said.

"Unfortunately, when you get people coming on the train with rucksacks you are
always looking to see where they are sitting. It will always affect me for the
rest of my life."

And Ray believes the driver he went through the ordeal with will never work
again.

It was also an extremely tough day for Ray's wife, Sue, who was at work in
Peterborough when she heard about the Tube bombings. She was frantically calling
his mobile, but was unable to get through because the lines were jammed. After
several hours, Ray eventually managed to get a message through to Sue's office
that he was alive and well.

Ray will be attending an informal gathering of survivors in London tomorrow.

Carnage cost 52 people their lives

THE suicide bombs that caused carnage in London on Thursday, July 7, 2005,
killed 52 people and injured 700.

Three suicide bombers struck when they set off explosives packed in rucksacks at
8.50am.

They took place just outside Liverpool Street, Edgware Road and King's Cross
Underground stations.

An hour later, a further explosion tore apart a packed double-decker bus in
Tavistock Square, near to King's Cross.

Al-Qaida later claimed reponsibility for the bombings and later tried to repeat
the attacks on Thursday, July 21, but the explosives failed to detonate.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                             January 6, 2006 Friday

Terror of pensioner in arson attack

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 502 words


An elderly pensioner suffered life-threatening injuries when her home was
torched in a revenge attack which went wrong.

Exeter Crown Court yesterday heard that Marie Brown, 71, spent a week in
intensive care after petrol was poured through the letterbox of her Torquay home
while she slept.

But the intended victim of the revenge attack, her son, 41-year-old Neil Brown,
was not at the property in Salisbury Road, Torquay, as he had decided to stay
the night with friends.

Mrs Brown was woken at three in the morning by the smoke alarm going off. She
tried to escape, making way through the dark, smoke-filled house. In her panic,
she slipped on the stairs as she made for the front door. But the door was well
alight and the heat was too intense for her to get through.

Mrs Brown eventually managed to escape through the back door into the garden,
where she was helped by neighbours.

James Conner, who lived nearby, had heard screams and tried to get into the
house through the front door, but the heat made it impossible.

He found Mrs Brown in the garden and, together with another neighbour, John
Redman, he took the elderly lady back to his home to await an ambulance. After
being treated by paramedics she was taken to Torbay Hospital.

She was later transferred to the Frenchay Hospital burns unit in Bristol.

Mrs Brown was in intensive care for a week, in hospital for a further two weeks,
and still suffers from respiratory problems.

The raid was carried out to punish Mr Brown for having a relationship with a
woman linked to a man who offender Joseph Lock perceived as a father figure.

Lock and his half brother, David Zmaczynski, hatched a plot to take revenge on
Mr Brown.

They lay in wait outside the house for some time, but when Mr Brown did not
return Zmaczynski poured petrol through the letter box and set light to it.

The arson attack happened last June and caused several thousand pounds in damage
to the property which is still lying semi-derelict.

At court yesterday, 23-year-old Zmaczynski of Windsor Road, Torquay, and
19-year-old Lock, of Winchester Avenue, Torquay, both pleaded guilty to
conspiracy to inflict grievous bodily harm on Neil Brown.

Zmaczynski further admitted arson being reckless as to whether life would be
endangered.

The two defendants both denied a charge of conspiracy to commit arson with
intent to endanger the lives of Marie and Neil Brown.

Prosecutor Richard Crabb said the pleas were acceptable and offered no evidence
on the conspiracy to commit arson charge.

Judge John Neligan formally entered not guilty verdicts on that charge.

The judge said it looked like a revenge attack that might have got out of hand.

He adjourned the case for sentence and ordered that pre-sentence reports should
be prepared on both defendants.

Zmaczynski was remanded in custody and Lock on bail with conditions including
residence and a seven-nights-a-week curfew.

Lock was warned by Judge Neligan that the fact that he was granting bail was no
indication that he would not receive a custodial sentence.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 7, 2006 Saturday

Iraqi Friday prayers condemn terrorist attacks; rally against violence staged

LENGTH: 322 words


Iraqi Al-Sharqiyah TV at 1948 gmt on 6 January carries the following report on
Friday sermons delivered in Iraqi mosques on the same day:

Al-Sharqiyah correspondent Shafiq Abd-al-Jabbar begins by saying: "In his Friday
sermon today, Shaykh Hazim al-A'raji, imam and preacher of the Al-Kazimiyah
Mosque, denounced the terrorists acts and suicide bombings which targeted
citizens in Karbala yesterday and called for ending these acts that split
national ranks and weaken the Iraqi people's cohesion." Al-A'raji says: "Now we
defy them. After this prayer we will stage a massive demonstration that will
start from this mosque and head towards the martyr's office in holy Al-Kazimiyah
to defy terrorism and to defy Al-Zarqawi."

Abd-al-Jabbar goes on to say: "Following the Friday prayers, the worshippers
staged a massive demonstration and crowded the streets of Al-Kazimiyah. The
demonstrators denounced terrorist acts that target innocent Iraqi women,
children and old people."

Abd-al-Jabbar says: "As for the Umm al-Qura Mosque in Baghdad, Ali Khadr
al-Zand, imam and preacher of the mosque, denounced the terrorist acts and the
suicide bombings that took place in various Iraqi cities, including Karbala,
Al-Ramadi and Al-Miqdadiyah." Shaykh Al-Zand is shown speaking and saying: "What
we suffer from today in Iraq and in our country is the weakness of and the
deterioration in the security situation. The best proof of this is the bloody
day yesterday. Yesterday was a bloody day that hurt the feelings of all
honourable Iraqis. Blood was spilt in Al-Ramadi and in Karbala. Before this,
blood was spilt in Al-Miqdadiyah and in Al-Najaf and in many areas in Iraq with
no justification." He goes on to say: "I say this on the day marking the
establishment of the valiant Iraqi army - our army which was destroyed by the
occupier - the army of feats and the army of glorious history."

Source: Al-Sharqiyah, Baghdad, in Arabic 1948 gmt 6 Jan 06

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           January 7, 2006, Saturday
                                 First Edition

RESIDENTS DEMAND ACTION AFTER LATEST ATTACK;
CAR BLAST TERROR AT TOWER BLOCKS

BYLINE: MICHELLE FIDDLER Chief Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 547 words


RESIDENTS of a Merseyside estate have taken to the streets after a car explosion
became the latest in a series of attacks.

People in flats off Little Moss Hey, Stockbridge Village, fear there will be
further trouble after a car was destroyed by what some claimed was a nailbomb.
It came only weeks after another car was damaged by a firework.

Residents of the three blocks, Whincraig, Mosscraig and Firscraig, have also
spoken of vandalism, drug taking, regular car break-ins and all-night parties.

They have demonstrated outside the blocks and held a public meeting where they
called on officials to take action. Laura Parker, 36, who lives in Firscraig,
said: "It is really frightening for residents.

"Nobody knows what is going on. There are a lot of elderly residents living in
the flats, and they are scared what damage is going to be done next time.

Another resident, who did not want to be named but has lived in the flats for 30
years, said: "You had to scrape me off the ceiling when the bomb went off.

"There was a big bang and a blue flash. It was terrifying."

A police spokeswoman said the matter was being treated as a deliberate car fire
but there was no evidence it was a nailbomb.

Huyton Neighbourhood Inspector Graeme Webster, said: "I am aware of the concerns
of residents and I have met with a number of parties and a small group of
residents to discuss these issues and bring them forward.

"I appreciate that an explosion would cause fear and concern among residents but
we have put together a sustained programme during January to tackle some of the
more prolific offenders.

"A S30 dispersal order which was in place last year has also had a significant
impact on dispersing groups."

Keith Gratton, director of housing at Villages Community Housing Association,
said: "There has been an increase of problems with cars.

"We as landlords for the area, the police and other agencies are working with
the community to resolve this problem and catch the culprits.

"We also rely on information from the community to assist us in alleviating the
problem."

Stockbridge councillor Bill Weightman, who is also chairman of Merseyside Police
Authority, said a plan was being drawn up.

"I deal with crime issues in Stock-bridge Village every single day of the week.
There was a dispersal order in place last year but that has run out.

"I have arranged a meeting this month with the council, police and local housing
authority and hope to come up with an action plan to deal with these problems."

'There was a big bang and a blue flash. It was terrifying'

michellefiddler@liverpoolecho.co.uk

CALL 0151-330 4975

If you believe you, or your family or someone else are in imminent danger ring
999.

If you are prepared to talk - in strictest confidence - to the ECHO about you
experiences of anti-social behaviour, contact our hotline on 0151-330 4975,
leaving your name and contact details. You personal details will not be shared
with any third party without your consent.

Alternatively, email your own personal stories to us at
reclaim@liverpoolecho.co.uk

You can also send your mobile phone pictures or video footage to
webmaster@merseyside.police.uk or text them to 07835 860 991.

If you want to give information about anti-social behaviour anonymously contact
the Crimestoppers line on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SORT IT: Residents of flats in Stockbridge Village show their anger
over vandal attacks Picture: TONY KENWRIGHT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             January 8, 2006 Sunday

Iraqi preachers denounce "terrorist attacks" in Karbala, Al-Ramadi

LENGTH: 512 words


Text of report by Iraqi TV station Al-Iraqiyah TV on 6 January

Preachers of Friday sermons have called for robbing terrorists of the
opportunity to sow the seeds of sedition among the Iraqis. At their sermons,
they asserted that Iraq and its people will remain united and proud in spite of
the terrorist criminal acts that are rejected by religion and shari'ah.

[Begin recording]

[Al-Iraqiyah TV correspondent Majid al-Buraykan] At the Friday sermons held in
Basra mosques, the preachers and imams denounced the terrorist attacks which
claimed the lives of scores of innocent people in the holy city of Karbala as
well as other Iraqi governorates that witnessed similar attacks.

[Unidentified preacher in Basra, in progress] - in Karbala, in that peaceful
city that embraces the tomb of a man who was the nearest and dearest to Prophet
Muhammad, peace be upon him, our imam Al-Husayn, peace be upon him, the son of
Fatimah, whose tomb lies in that holy place. The evil hand of those criminals
insisted on squirting the venom of their hatred against this country and its
people by attempting to instigate sectarian sedition and civil strife in our
country.

[Al-Buraykan] Categorical denunciation and outright condemnation were expressed
by all Iraqis of all shades. The Iraqi people have unanimously viewed these
crimes as savage and criminal acts committed by those who try to terrorize
people and foment sedition among the Iraqis at a stage that represents a model
political transition.

[Another unidentified preacher in Basra] When we say the tragedy of Karbala, you
know, dear brothers, what this means. This tragedy of Karbala is still
continuing. This is because the principle is one, the word is one, and the deed
is one too. Where do these crises and obstacles lead us?

[Al-Buraykan] Looking forward to a future whose pillars are reinforced by
security and stability has become the dream of every Iraqi. The people of Iraq
keep praying to realize this dream.

[Al-Iraqiyah TV correspondent Ahmad Isma'il] Preachers of Friday sermons in
Arbil today denounced the terrorist acts that occurred in the holy city of
Karbala and Al-Ramadi, which killed dozens of innocent people. The preacher
emphasized the sanctity of the Muslim blood and asserted that these terrorist
acts are at odds with Islam, stressing the need for the Iraqi people to unite.

[Mulla Umar, imam and preacher of Rashad al-Mufti Mosque, in progress] - because
these acts of killing looting, and sabotage harm the Iraqi people in the current
phase. Therefore, we denounce these acts and call on Iraqis to unite their rank
and file and cooperate with the security and police organs to defeat these
terrorists and prevent them from committing other crimes.

[Isma'il] In spite of all the terrorist attacks that target innocent people in
many Iraqi cities, the march of development will never be stopped, nor will the
Iraqi people's determination to form a national unity government weaken or
slacken.

[Video: excerpts from preachers' Friday sermons in Basra]

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1700 gmt 6 Jan 06

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                           January 11, 2006 Wednesday

HAMZA'S 'TERROR ATTACK MANUAL';
Old Bailey told of 10 volumes on how to commit atrocities

BYLINE: PAUL CHESTON; VALENTINE LOW

SECTION: B MERGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 545 words


RADICAL Muslim preacher Abu Hamza was caught with a "terrorist manual", a court
heard today.

The 10-volume encyclopaedia was designed to assist extremists planning and
committing acts of terrorism, the jury was told.

It explained how to make explosives, the best methods of assassination and how
terrorist units could operate to maximum effect. The books were seized at
Hamza's home when the former imam of the Finsbury Park mosque was arrested in
May 2004.

Hamza's intention was to establish a world-wide Islamic state with its leader
sitting in the White House, the Old Bailey heard.

He considered Hitler had been sent to deal with the Jews because of their
"filth, blasphemy and treachery," the jury was told. Hamza preached that holy
war (jihad) was not a matter of choice but a religious obligation.

Hamza, 47, of Shepherd's Bush, denies charges of inciting racial hatred against
Jews and other non-Muslims. At his home police also found video recordings of
the cleric urging his followers to kill Jews and non-Muslims, the court heard.

Hamza used "threatening, abusive or insulting words and behaviour" at his public
meetings to stir up racial hatred, it is alleged. Before the case was opened Mr
Justice Hughes warned the jury that they should not "go hunting" on the internet
to find out more information about Hamza.

"This man is somebody who has been the object of a fair amount of press coverage
in the past and much of it critical," he said.

"You are not interested in what anybody may have said about him in the past, you
are only interested in the evidence here."

David Perry, prosecuting, told the court that Hamza used two other aliases,
Mustafa Kamel Mustafa and Hamza al Masri. "Although he uses a number of aliases
there is nothing sinister or improper about that," he added.

"For the purposes of this trial I shall call him sheikh or Mr Hamza. Sheikh is a
title considered to be a leader in the Muslim community."

Taking the jury through the indictment, Mr Perry highlighted a charge under the
Terrorism-Act accusing Hamza of possessing a document "of a kind likely to be
useful to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism".

This charge refers to 10 volumes of the Encyclopaedia of the Afghani Jihad
discovered at his home. Mr Perry said:

"This is a manual for terrorism. It explains how to make explosives. It explains
assassination methods."

Hamza denies nine charges alleging he solicited or encouraged others at public
meetings to murder people who did not believe in the Islamic faith.

He also denies four charges under the Public Order Act of "using threatening,
abusive or insulting words or behaviour with the intention of stirring up racial
hatred". He is charged with possessing video and audio recordings which he
intended to show or distribute with the intention to stir up racial hatred - a
charge he denies.

The tapes reveal Hamza's hatred of Jews and those countries trying to make peace
with Israel such as his native land of Egypt, the court heard. Mr Perry said
Hamza was "expressing his hatred and contempt in particular to the Jews, but
what he had to say did not stop with hatemongering. He exhorted his listeners to
kill, making it clear that in his view it was part of a religious duty and not a
matter of choice." The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           January 12, 2006, Thursday
                                 Mersey Edition

Mock terrorist attack on transport

BYLINE: MATT SLATER Daily Post Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 400 words


A MOCK terrorist attack will be launched on a North West transport hub this
weekend as part of a detailed training session to improve security at train
stations, airports and bus terminals.

On Saturday chiefs from the region's police forces and ambulance services will
gather in Chester for the high-pressure drill.

They will form a command unit working in an imitation operations centre that
deals with emergencies throughout Merseyside and the rest of the North West.

The team will then be told about a terrorist-related incident at a transport hub
and will be judged on how they deal with the situation.

British Transport Police Deputy Chief Constable Andrew Trotter is leading the
session and said the location would remain top secret until the actual day.

He said: "This training session is vital in helping raise the standards of
security in the North West and the whole region is involved.

"The incident could take place in Merseyside but the exact details are being
kept private.

"Everyday life for passengers will not be affected but it will seem very real to
those in the command unit.

"There will be a build up to the incident and it will be as close to a real
situation as possible.

"Since the bombings in London, transport security has never been more important
and these recreations are the best way to look at what is being done right and
what is being done wrong."

Mr Trotter was placed firmly in the spotlight in the wake of the London
transport bombings, which claimed more than 50 lives.

He was responsible for helping to co-ordinate investigations to identify the
suicide bombers and assess how security could have been improved.

He admits awareness of a potential attack on a transport network has to be at an
all time high.

"This is not just an issue that affects London. British Transport Police
officers across the country have to be on the same page," he said.

"In the capital we are improving CCTV systems and looking at ways to make safety
better for passengers.

"Those ideas are being transferred to everywhere else.

"There is a lot that can be learned from what happened in London and it can be
used to make transport safer everywhere.

"I am looking forward to the North West training weekend because it is the best
way to evaluate where improvements can be made.

"But I would like to stress we do not choose locations because of any particular
problem - they happen throughout the country."

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A firefighter goes through a decontamination washer in a previous
exercise

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 12, 2006

'HOW HAMZA TOLD MUSLIMS TO KILL'; CLERIC'S MANUAL URGED TERROR ATTACKS ACROSS
THE WORLD, COURT TOLD

BYLINE: By John Twomey

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 1115 words


MUSLIM cleric Abu Hamza kept a manual of terror which urged attacks on Big Ben,
The Eiffel Tower and the Statue of Liberty, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.

The Encyclopaedia of Afghani Jihad, dedicated to terror warlord Osama Bin Laden,
recommended targeting football stadiums, airports and large congregations at
Christmas, the jury was told.

Skyscrapers, nuclear plants and sea ports were also on the hit list along with
museums and archaeological sites.

The ten volumes of the terror encyclopaedia were seized at Hamza's home in
Shepherd's Bush, west London, when he was arrested in 2004.

Each book was dedicated to Bin Laden and other Muslim leaders engaged in holy
war - Jihad - the court heard.

David Perry, prosecuting, told the jury: "Abu Hamza's interpretation of Jihad
involves fighting, physical fighting.

"That fighting involves murder, in particular the murder of those who will not
submit to what he considers to be the true path of Islam.

"The murder of those in this country and abroad, the enemies of Islam who stand
in the way of the establishment of a world caliphate." The manual, compiled
between 1989 and 1999, was part of Hamza's campaign to create a world Islamic
state with the leader based at the White House, the jury was told.

The volumes covered a range of military topics including how to make explosives
and carry out assassinations of VIPs. There were also sections on how to run a
terror cell, including placing sleepers in communities 10 years before they were
activated.

Hamza, former Iman at the Finsbury Park Mosque in north London, preached murder
and hatred to Muslim congregations which looked to him for guidance on how to
live as a good Muslim, the court heard.

But, instead of preaching peace and toleration, Hamza urged his followers to
slaughter Jews and non-believers, it was alleged.

The cleric branded Jews as "filthy, blasphemous traitors" who should be
"removed" from the earth.

During one sermon, the court heard, Hamza even claimed that Hitler had been sent
into the world to torture and humiliate the Jewish race.

Hamza's hatred, expressed in sermons, lectures and question and answer sessions,
extended to all those who did not follow Islam - kuffars - and Muslims who had
deviated from the "true path." The self-styled Sheikh allegedly told one
audience: "We like blood and are addicted to it. If you love Allah, how much
blood of the kuffar have you given?" He allegedly told a public meeting: "If we
don't use terrorism and torture, what are we going to use?" He urged his
followers to use the "sword and Kalashnikov" to further the cause of Jihad and
told women they should train children as young as 10 to be the next generation
of Mujahedin - Jihad warriors.

Hamza, 47, was striving for a global community under the command of a caliph, or
leader, sitting in the US President's office in Washington, said Mr Perry. The
lives of the caliph's subjects would be governed by shariah law based on the
Koran and the teachings of the prophet Mohammed.

Hamza reserved a special hatred for Jews, who he claimed controlled western
liberal democracies such as Britain, said Mr Perry.

"He accused Jews of being blasphemers, traitors and dirty.

Because of their treachery, blasphemy and filth Hitler was sent into the world,
" he told the jury.

Hamza is a "hate-monger exhorting his listeners to kill. This was part of
religious duty. It should not be a matter of choice, it becomes a matter of holy
obligation." The cleric praised suicide bombers and allegedly said: "They call
it suicide to put people off. This is not suicide, this is called martyrdom. If
the only way to hurt the enemies of Islam is by taking your own life, then it is
allowed." When police seized the encyclopaedia they also discovered 2,700 audio
tapes and 570 video tapes.

In his speeches, Hamza also railed against alcohol, adultery, licensing laws,
the role of Muslim women and even E-numbers on food packaging. He singled out
officials who granted licences to "wine shops" and described them as "evil."
Hamza's sermons, which were recorded on video and audio tapes, amounted to a
"blueprint for living" as well as how to wage war against non-believers, said Mr
Perry.

The cleric denies nine charges of soliciting murder, four of stirring up racial
hatred, one of possessing a tape of a speech designed to incite race hate and
having a document, the terror manual, likely to be of use to a terrorist.

As Mr Perry opened the prosecution, Hamza, who has no hands and only one eye,
sat in the dock of Number 2 court with a file of documents on a desk in front of
him.

A female member of his defence team sat next to him turning the pages of the
file.

Mr Perry told the jury of seven men and five women that the hearing was not a
trial of Islam, the religion's holy book the Koran or the ancient right of
freedom of speech.

He said: "We are fortunate to live in a democratic society. We tolerate ideas
which shock, offend and disturb because we realise that the demands of
pluralism, broadmindedness and toleration demand the accommodation of such
ideas.

Freedom of expression and speech does not extend to racial hatred and the
encouragement of murder." Mr Perry added: "The millions of peace-loving Muslims
around the world are testament that the defendant's views involved a distortion
of a great religion. In any case, there can be no excuse for murder."
Egyptian-born Hamza, who is now a British citizen, said the leaders of Arab
states which negotiated peace terms with Israel were legitimate targets for
execution, Mr Perry told the jury.

Allies of the Jewish state were condemned as "sugar daddies." "According to the
defendant, the Jews are secretly hated by the West but this secret hatred cannot
be displayed because the Jews control the banking system and the money supply, "
said Mr Perry.

"They have a file on each politician and will blackmail them if they criticise
Israel." Hamza poured scorn on democracies and claimed Britain and the USA were
guilty of causing the deaths of Muslims.

The Muslim Council of Great Britain was also condemned during his speeches along
with liberalism.

He told one audience that his adopted country was "100 per cent anti-Islam. The
worst that could happen would be if they became European." Mr Perry said Hamza
told one public meeting that "killing kuffars for any reason is OK and killing
is OK even if there is no reason at all." The cleric even claimed that Allah had
sunk the Russian submarine Kursk with the loss of 100 sailors in August, 2000 in
revenge for Russian military action in Chechnya. The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 14, 2006 Saturday
                                 Second Edition

Greenpeace video of 'terror attack' is condemned

BYLINE: By Oliver Duff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 310 words


A video showing terrorists crashing a passenger plane into a nuclear power
station - a vivid attack on the Government's alleged intention to build a new
generation of nuclear power plants - has been condemned by the nuclear industry
as "distasteful".

The 45-second Greenpeace film shows a family on a beach when a plane screams
over them and smashes into the Sizewell nuclear plant behind them. "Do we really
want more nuclear power stations? Tell Tony Blair nuclear power is not the
answer to climate change," it warns.

British Nuclear Fuels, which runs Sellafield, said it would not dignify the
video with a full response. "We are not prepared to comment on what appears to
be a distasteful publicity campaign," said a spokesman.

The Department for Trade and Industry accused Greenpeace of trying to
"sensationalise" the issue.

Dr Frank Barnaby, a former Aldermaston nuclear physicist who now works for the
Oxford Research Group, said Greenpeace, who released the computer-generated film
on the internet, was "facing up to reality". He said: "The public have the right
to know the danger. The Government says the terrorism threat is real. Building
more nuclear power stations, especially after 11 September, is a risk we don't
have to take. For the Government to encourage it is crazy."

He added that a terrorist attack on a British nuclear plant was "going to
happen" and predicted that an attack at Sellafield in Cumbria, Britain's largest
nuclear power plant, could kill more than two million. The worst-case scenario
could see 2,500kg of caesium-137, the most dangerous isotope, escape - 100 times
more than that released in the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.

Although there are no-fly zones two miles around civil nuclear power stations to
prevent aviation accidents overhead, Dr Barnaby said that there would probably
not be enough time to prevent a terrorist attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      January 14, 2006, Saturday Edition 1

Terror attack film on N-plant 'distasteful'

BYLINE: By Julia Kennard, The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 328 words


   A shocking video depicting a terrorist attack on a nuclear power station was
last night condemned as "distasteful".

Environmental campaign group Greenpeace released the video on its website
claiming an attack on the Sellafield nuclear site in Cumbria could kill over two
million people.

Greenpeace argues that the video and its message are a realistic portrayal of
the risk throughout the UK and Europe if such an attack were to happen. But the
British Nuclear Group which runs Sellafield claims the video is "distasteful" in
the light of the September 11 attacks on New York.

In the video a family are seen enjoying a day on the beach, before a jumbo jet
appears in the sky hurtling towards a nuclear site, just a few hundred metres
away.

A BNG spokeswoman said: "We're not prepared to comment on what appears to be a
distasteful publicity campaign." A spokesman for the Government's Office for
Civil Nuclear Security said: "There are extremely stringent safety measures in
place around our nuclear power sites, and they were upgraded after September
11."

Nuclear consultant to the Oxford Research Group Dr Frank Barnaby, who was
integral in compiling the evidence used by Greenpeace, says the concerns raised
are legitimate.

He said: "There are 14 tanks of high level radioactive liquid stored in
Sellafield. If a jumbo jet full of fuel crashes into these then more than two
million people will die. The people killed will be across the North-East of
England, throughout the UK and depending on the wind and rain, Europe too."

A Greenpeace spokesman denied that the organisation was whipping up unnecessary
fear.

He said: "We are not the ones who are scare-mongering. The Government is doing
that by putting the prospect of building more nuclear power stations back on the
agenda and therefore presenting a potential catastrophic gift to terrorists."

He added: "There is a real likelihood that a disaster of this sort could
happen."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2006 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Gwent

                           January 14, 2006 Saturday

Baseball bat attack terror

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 282 words

DATELINE: Gwent


TWO women sat helplessly as baseball bat wielding thugs smashed up their car
during a motiveless daylight attack near Newport yesterday.

Police say four men in a black Audi pulled up alongside the woman and her friend
who were parked in a car in Church Lane, Marshfield. The men got out and began
smashing up the car at about 3pm before one climbed on the bonnet.

In a desperate attempt to escape, the women drove off and the man on the bonnet
was sent sprawling.

Inspector Simon Foster, of Gwent Police, said: "We received several calls
regarding a vehicle in the Marshfield area.

"We were then told that men attacked the car with baseball bats. The woman
driver was parked up when a black Audi with four men in it drove up.

"When she drove away to escape the man was thrown off the bonnet. We think the
incident was unprovoked and the women are quite shaken up." Police are linking
the Marshfield  inci-dent with one ten minutes earlier at St Mellons Business
Park    near   Cardiff where two men were seen breaking into a car.

After being approached by witnesses, the men escaped in a Citroen Saxo. One
witness was run down after he stepped in front of their car in a bid to stop
them.

Newport city councillor Bill Pursey, who represents the Marshfield ward, said he
was shocked to hear about the incident.

"Marshfield is usually a sleepy place and Church Lane is usually particularly
quiet.

"It can't have been very nice for the woman in the car." Police are appealing
for witnesses. Anyone with information is asked to phone Gwent Police on 01633
858111 or Crimestoppers 0800 555111.

Four men have been arrested in connection with the incident and are being
questioned at a Cardiff police station.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2006 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            January 15, 2006 Sunday
                                 1 Star Edition

FOOTBALL: WE FEAR A TERROR ATTACK;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: BY KEN LAWRENCE

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 77

LENGTH: 335 words


EDWIN van der Sar has revealed that Manchester United players must live with the
knowledge that Old Trafford is acknowledged as a terrorist target.

Just over 18 months ago the so-called Theatre of Dreams was in a security
lock-down, police and terrorist experts aware of a serious threat of attack
surrounding United's clash with Liverpool.

Van der Sar, like his team-mates, found himself in a state of shock at the start
of this season on his arrival from Fulham as the club's security chiefs sat
everybody down for a safety lecture - having first been briefed by police.

The Dutch goalkeeper had already been shaken as he prepared to depart Craven
Cottage.His father narrowly missed one of the 7/7 London attacks.

He was even more edgy when the players were called together for the security
talk at United's Carrington HQ. He revealed: "We, the players, have been briefed
by security experts, because Old Trafford is a prime target for terrorism.

"It could well be a place they want to hit. When they told us, it made everyone
quiet."

United's security men informed some of the biggest names in world football that
Old Trafford remains a possible target for suicide bombers.

Van der Sar said: "It is bizarre that we have to be so alert these days that we
even have to be informed by security people about danger around the corner of
Old Trafford."

A United spokesman said: "We never discuss our security arrangements." The
keeper had already been touched by the threat of terrorism. He said: "The bomb
blasts in London last summer happened an hour before my dad arrived at one of
those tube stations."

But Van der Sar is still considering staying in England when his football career
is over. He said: "I don't find England more dangerous than Holland.

"I used to think as soon as my career was finished, I would go back to Holland.
But now I don't rule out that I will stay in England and move to London.

"It has to do a lot with my love for that city. Not so much with the fact that
Holland is not a safe place any more."

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNED: Van Der Sar

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            January 15, 2006 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

First victim of 9/11 dust cloud;
The Big Apple's deadly secret: it was poisoned in terror attack

BYLINE: By Stuart Winter ENVIRONMENT EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 40

LENGTH: 1141  words


NEW YORK'S Finest paid their last respects to one of their own this week - a
hero who died protecting the city he loved.

On the Big Apple's mean streets, NYPD detectives risk constant threats of knives
and bullets. But the 34-year-old hero given a guard of honour one bitingly cold
January morning last week died in a line of duty dating from America's bloodiest
outrage, the day the Big Apple was poisoned.

Detective James Zadroga was a widower with a young daughter. Now that little
girl's father is a latter victim of 9/11, killed by the horrific pollution that
billowed from the Twin Towers that fateful, history-changing day, an
environmental catastrophe labelled as America's Chernobyl.

Unwittingly, the terrorists left a toxic legacy as deadly as their foul act as
they plunged two passenger aircraft into the World Trade Center that once
dominated the Manhattan skyline.

Amid the mangled wreckage and cavernous crater of Ground Zero, Detective Zadroga
spent hundreds of hours helping the intense forensic investigation.

Police colleagues claim working in the toxic dust, a cocktail of poisons and
chemicals, left him with "black lung disease" and mercury on the brain. Although
autopsy results are still awaited, the Detectives' Endowment Association told
the Sunday Express this week it believes Zadroga's death was caused by 9/11.

"Certain chemicals we believe came from the Ground Zero site were found in
Detective Zadroga by his private doctors, " said the DEA.

"Sadly, Detective Zadroga's wife is deceased but his four-year-old daughter will
receive a portion of his disability pension and will also receive health
benefits until she is 23."

And as his colleagues stood to attention in their dress uniforms and medals, the
Stars and Stripes and NYPD flags billowing in the wind, many were left asking if
they too would fall victim to the toxic cloud that mushroomed with such
intensity that it could be seen from space.

When American Airlines 11 and United Airlines 175 were flown into the North and
South Towers of the WTC, the terrorists were attacking a symbol of US power. But
beside their 2,749 victims they also unwittingly created a "dirty bomb" that may
kill many more.

The damaged lungs, burned throats and seared mouths of thousands of emergency
crews, rescue volunteers, construction workers - many without face masks - and
ordinary New Yorkers left caked in the poisonous miasma are now one of America's
most urgent issues.

Victims describe it as America's Chernobyl.

And like the Russian nuclear disaster of the Eighties, the poisoning of the Big
Apple is developing into a tale of cover-ups, negligence and political
infighting. Environmental groups are accusing the US federal authorities of
failing to protect people contaminated by the chemical cocktail created when the
110-storey concrete and glass buildings fell to the ground.

Initially, the jet impact produced a cataclysmic inferno that ignited the
towers' own 150,000gallons of generator fuel. Another 30,000 gallons of fluid
then unleashed from huge electrical transformers, contained PCBs
(polychlorinated biphenyls), one of the deadliest toxins known to man.

Meanwhile, shattered computers and fluorescent lights released dangerous amounts
of mercury, and deadly asbestos used in fire-resistant materials and deadly
dioxins escaped.

Billions of razor-sharp shards of glass also flew into the morning sky along
with fragments of computers, carpets and office detritus from one of America's
busiest blocks. In all, five million square feet of painted surfaces, six
million square feet of masonry and seven million square feet of flooring were
pulverised.

Workers left looking as if they had been dusted with icing sugar became an
enduring image of 9/11 but that powder coating was far from sweetly innocuous.
The white dust, which invaded every nook and cranny of New York's bustling
business area and its neighbouring blocks, was as caustic as drain cleaner.

Health officials fear 40,000 people, including firefighters, recovery workers,
survivors and Manhattan residents breathed the sullied air in the weeks after
the towers collapsed. Of 10,116 firefighters, 332 have bad respiratory problems.

Worse, thousands of clean-up and recovery workers have reported a chronic cough,
dubbed "World Trade Center Cough". In addition, checks on pregnant women have
shown a two-fold increase in the incidence of "small for gestational age" babies
born after 9/11.

Now longer-term health consequences are worrying organisations such as the
National Institute on Environmental Health Sciences.

Asbestos can cause deadly tumours up to 40 years after inhalation, and with
possibly hundreds of tons of the cancer-causing substance blasted into the
atmosphere, no one can say how high the final death toll of 9/11 will be.

The Sierra Club, America's oldest environmental organisation, maintains New
Yorkers have been failed by federal authorities.

It says: "The Sierra Club's 2004 report, Pollution and Deception at Ground Zero,
determined that the cover-up of health hazards from Ground Zero continued long
after the early press releases analysed by the Environmental Protection Agency's
Inspector General.

"This report and Sierra Club's 2005 update, Pollution and Deception at Ground
Zero Revisited: Why It Could Happen Again, found that the federal administration
has incorporated key aspects of its failed approach to disaster response at
Ground Zero into national policy for future disaster responses."

The Fireballs created by passenger airliners plunging into the Twin Towers were
fuelled by 150,000 gallons of generator fuel and caused a conflagration that was
to bring down both buildings.

A further 30,000 gallons of fluid from the towers' huge electrical transformers,
containing PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls) - one of the deadliest toxins known
to man - were also unleashed.

An estimated million tons of dust - some of it deadly asbestos - was created in
the explosions and subsequent collapse. The plume of smoke could be seen from
space.

When the layer of pink-grey dust finally settled over vast swathes of New York
and then became mixed with rainwater it created a soup as caustic as drain
cleaner.

MASONRY 6million square feet of masonry created the bulk of the choking cloud.

PAINT

It is estimated that 5million square feet of painted surfaces were pulverised
into micscropic pieces.

FLOORING

The 120-storey towers had a total of 7million square feet of floor space.

Rugs, carpets and other synthetic products found in offices produced chemicals
called PAHs - an organic pollutant.

GLASS

Billions of microscopic shards of glass proved a health risk to workers on the
scene

COMPUTERS

Burned and shattered computers with glass and plastic components would have
produced PAHs and also trace metals.

CABLING

Asbestos and other fire retardants used to protect cabling formed part of the
toxic cloud.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DUST TO DUST: New Yorkers flee the debris caused by the collapsing
towers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gloucester Citizen

                            January 16, 2006 Monday

Greens fear terror attack on nuclear site

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 204 words


Gloucestershire Green party claims a shocking new report from Greenpeace
confirms fears that existing and new nuclear power stations are and will be
terrorist targets.

Philip Booth, a Gloucestershire Green party spokesperson, said the former sites
at Berkeley and Oldbury could be at risk.

He said: "One of the most respected nuclear authorities, the International
Atomic Energy Agency, has said that a terrorist attack is now inevitable.

"This new report shows that a new nuclear power station at Oldbury would be a
serious mistake.

"Greenpeace have shown they can easily breach security at nuclear power stations
when they got into the Secure Zone at Sizewell through a fire door.

"We know already that terrorists have been found surveying a nuclear reactor in
Australia and last July the London bombers were found with documents about a UK
nuclear power station.

"Greenpeace have now released an online film which ends with a shocking view of
a jumbo jet heading directly towards a nuclear facility.

"This is clearly very scary and emotional stuff, but the reality is that these
facilities are extremely dangerous.

"It is a madness to be considering building more when we could choose
alternative, cheaper and safer renewable energy."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 The Gloucester Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 17, 2006 Tuesday

South Afghan governor blames Pakistan for terror attacks

LENGTH: 416 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 17 January

[Presenter] Asadollah Khaled, the governor of Kandahar Province, has said that
Pakistan is responsible for the recent attacks and insecurity in that province.
Speaking after the explosion in Kandahar city yesterday [16 January], he said
evidence suggested that Pakistan had been involved in the recent suicide attacks
in Afghanistan.

[Correspondent] Speaking to Tolo television by telephone, Asadollah Khaled said
Pakistan was involved in the recent attacks in Afghanistan and that all rebel
fighters lived in Pakistan and were trained there.

[Asadollah Khaled in Pashto] Pakistanis were specifically involved in one or two
of the previous attacks. They held funeral ceremonies for suicide attackers in
Pakistan. We have precise information that the enemies of our country are living
in Pakistan. They are trained there and then sent to Afghanistan.

[Correspondent] Pakistani diplomats in Kabul say the governors of Afghan
provinces bordering on Pakistan have previously made such claims against
Pakistan, but there is no evidence to prove their claims.

Dr Rangin Dadfar Spanta, President Hamed Karzai's adviser on international
affairs, says all countries of the world should understand that terrorism will
not only cause problems for Afghanistan.

[Dr Rangin Dadfar Spanta] As local forces and authorities directly face these
problems and have very specific experience of their provinces and areas, they
give their own opinions. As far as the government of Afghanistan in general is
concerned, terrorism in Afghanistan has a behind-the-scenes supporter. Terrorism
has specific sources which support it. Sources that train terrorists,
financially support terrorism and give ideological training to terrorists. There
is undeniable and viable evidence that such sources come from the other side of
the Afghan borders.

[Correspondent] Twenty six people were killed and more than 20 others were
wounded in the attacks that occurred in Kandahar yesterday.

A suicide attack occurred in Spin Boldak, near the border with Pakistan, a few
hours after a vehicle full of explosives went off and killed three national army
soldiers and wounded 15 civilians in Kandahar city. The Taleban have claimed
responsibility for the attacks.

We tried to contact authorities at the Interior Ministry several times to ask
them about these incidents, but none of them would agree to comment on the
issue.

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari and Pashto 1330 gmt 17 Jan 06

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 17, 2006 Tuesday

Search for bodies under way after terror attack in south Afghanistan

LENGTH: 485 words


Excerpt from report by Afghan independent Pajhwok news agency website

Spin Boldak, 17 January: An elderly man, who was looking for the body of his
15-year-old son who was killed in yesterday's explosion, told Pajhowk news
agency: "My son went to celebrations yesterday. We waited for a long time for
his return but he did not come home. I am here to look for his body."

Abdollah, 60, was looking through blood-stained jumpers, shoes, chadors and
shawls at the small clinic in Spin Boldak to find something belonging to his
15-year-old son.

He told Pajhwok that he had already searched the scene of the explosion but
could not find his son's body. He added: "My son's body may be among the 15
bodies here in the clinic."

Yesterday, the Achakzai and Nurzai tribes were celebrating a traditional
festival, engaging in wrestling etc, when an explosion took place. Officials
reported that that 20 were killed and 28 injured as a result.

But eyewitnesses say that the number of victims is higher. Abdol Ahad, an
eye-witness, told Pajhwok today that the number of people killed is between 25
and 30, while approximately 35 were wounded.

He said around 1600, when the festival was about to finish, a person riding a
motorbike approached and hit a Land Cruiser.

He added that a number of the wounded had been taken to the hospital belonging
to the French forces while the rest were sent to the city.

He said that a number of the wounded had lost a lot of blood and had little
chance of survival. He added that following the explosion, the bodies were sent
to a local clinic in Spin Boldak and there are still 15 unidentified bodies
there.

Abdollah is not the only one looking for his son. Dozens of others are crying
loudly and searching for the bodies of their family members.

Mohammad Karim, 75, is another elderly man looking for his son's body and the
bodies of three of his relatives. Calling his son's name he cried: "Esmat, your
hat is here, but where are you?"

When he discovered his son's hat, he said: "I brought you up with love and care
but now all that is left of you is your hat. Someone has killed you. Not even
infidels do such things. What kind of person does it take to cause grief to
hundreds of families?"

A doctor at the clinic told Pajhwok on condition of anonymity that eight
severely wounded people had been sent to Pakisitan and the rest were sent to the
hospital at the base of the French forces.

Abdolrazaq, the commander in charge of the border areas of Kandahar, told
Pajhwok that 21 people were killed and 26 injured as a result of yesterday's
explosion. He said that no government official was wounded in the attack.
[Passage omitted]

Spin Boldak, an important trading centre, has been closed off; shops have been
closed and few people are out on the streets. The town's people are either
searching for bodies or visiting the clinic.

Source: Pajhwok Afghan News website, Kabul, in Dari 1651 gmt 17 Jan 06

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                           January 18, 2006 Wednesday

Couple in shock after terror of park attack

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 416 words


A Couple are recovering after a man attacked them and tried to steal their car
in a Lincoln park.

The man's terrifying assault on Pat and Roger Daniels in Hartsholme Country Park
only ended when he thought they had a child with them.

The pair had just finished walking their two Cairn terrier dogs and were at
their Vauxhall Vectra in the car park when the man approached.

Mrs Daniels (56) was sitting in the passenger seat and her husband was outside
changing his shoes.

The man asked for directions to Doddington Park but then demanded the keys to
the car.

He hit engineer Mr Daniels (57) with a whisky bottle in the face and punched him
in the head.

Mrs Daniels locked the car from the inside and tried in vain to find her mobile
phone so she could call for help. The man, who is white and in his 20s, then
threw the bottle through the driver's side window, showering her in broken
glass.

"I heard my husband say to him that the best way to Doddington Park was through
the woods," said Mrs Daniels.

"My husband was not going to give him the keys - I wish he had -  so the man was
screaming at me to give him the keys but I didn't have them.

"Then the bottle came through. One of the dogs, Lewis, was in the back of the
car.

"It was dark by this stage and this chap just happened to look in and said 'is
that a kid in the back?' and I said 'yes it is'. He said 'I'm sorry, I didn't
realise' and he tried to shake my husband's hand before he took off."

Mr Daniels said he feared for his wife's safety as the would-be car thief
launched his attack.

"When he first hit me my main thought was that I would lose consciousness - I
felt my face and felt it was bleeding," he said.

After the attack the couple stayed at the park, off Skellingthorpe Road, calling
for their dog Lizzie, which had run off, but the man returned, accusing them of
calling the police.

Then a man came past on a bike, slowed, and appeared to speak to the  attacker
before riding off. At this point Mr and Mrs Daniels drove off.

The police later helped them to find their dog. Mr Daniels needed five stitches
in his chin. His wife suffered scratches to her nose and hands.

Since the incident, which happened at about 5pm on Friday,  the couple walk
their dogs with other people at the park or stay in the village.

Detective Constable Chris Dickinson, of Lincoln CID, said: "This is a
tremendously shocking incident for anyone to have experienced.

"With a thin, bony face, a woolly hat and beige coat, the description of the
suspect is distinctive."

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2006 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Western Mail

                          January 18, 2006, Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Foreign terrorists did die in US attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 347 words


Britain yesterday warned Iran it faced international isolation unless it was
prepared to abandon work on its nuclear programme which could lead to the
development of an atomic bomb. Senior officials dismissed a reported offer by
Iran of fresh talks with the E3 group of Britain, France and Germany as
'vacuous'.

Diplomats from the three European nations are working on a draft resolution
calling for Iran to be referred to the United Nations Security Council.

The final version will be presented to an emergency meeting of the board of the
International Atomic Energy Agency - the UN's nuclear watchdog - in Vienna on
February 2 and 3.

PAKISTANI provincial authorities yesterday said four or five foreign terrorists
were killed in last Friday's US missile strike that has strained relations with
the Muslim nation that is a key ally in President Bush's war on terror.

Pakistan's Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz said that despite the importance of ties
with the US, attacks inside Pakistan 'cannot be condoned'.

Eighteen local people were also killed in the attack on the border village of
Damadola. Pakistani officials said the target was al-Qaeda number two Ayman
al-Zawahri, who was invited to an Islamic celebration but sent aides instead. US
officials haven't ruled out that he did die in the attack.

ONE victim is a five-year-old boy who fell ill after killing a duck for New
Year's dinner and is now in critical condition. Another is his 12-year-old
sister, who died last weekend. Three were siblings who succumbed in rapid
succession.

Just as in east and southeast Asia, where at least 77 people have died of bird
flu since it re-emerged in 2003, children appear to be particularly susceptible
to the lethal H5N1 strain - if only because they are more likely to play with
diseased birds.

A World Health Organisation spokeswoman said

all but two of the 21 confirmed human cases involved children aged four to 18.

Turkey's Health Ministry said preliminary tests had detected the deadly strain
in another child from Dogubayazit - the hometown of all four of the children who
so far have died.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                January 19, 2006

Britain - Activists attack Britain's focus on terror above human rights;

LENGTH: 305 words


Human Rights Watch accused the British government yesterday of neglecting human
rights in favour of lucrative trade deals and international co-operation on
"anti-terror" measures.

In its annual report, the pressure group warned that Britain and the EU have
been ignoring abuses in countries such as Russia and Saudi Arabia, simply to
secure big business contracts.

It noted an "unseemly competition" between Prime Minister Tony Blair, French
President Jacques Chirac and former German chancellor Gerhard Schroeder to
proclaim the closeness of their relationship with Russian President Vladimir
Putin, despite severe human rights concerns in Chechnya.

"The British government pressed hard for Saudi Arabia to buy arms from British
manufacturers while remaining silent on the kingdom's abysmal human rights
record," the document added.

Campaign Against Arms Trade spokesman Mike Lewis welcomed the watchdog's report,
noting that 2005 had repeatedly seen human rights "play second fiddle" to
business interests.

"New Labour began the year announcing a manifesto commitment for a treaty
preventing weapons sales to human rights abusers," he said.

"It ended it with Defence Secretary John Reid flying to Saudi Arabia to broker a
massive arms deal with one of the world's most repressive regimes."

Mr Lewis warned that "the deal will go ahead with public funding and without
parliamentary scrutiny unless voters speak out immediately."

Other domestic measures and practises, particularly those dealing with alleged
terror suspects, were harshly criticised by the human rights group.

The New York-based group dismissed government attempts to obtain guarantees,
under so-called memorandums of understanding, that terror suspects would not be
tortured by foreign governments as "meaningless."

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2006

               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Post Magazine

                                January 19, 2006

NEWS; UK WARNED OF FIVE FURTHER TERRORIST ATTACKS.

SECTION: Pg.3

LENGTH: 220 words

DATELINE: UK


The UK will suffer five terrorist attacks in the next 18 months, according to
the latest political risk forecast.

The attacks will be on a similar scale to London's 7 July bombings but will not
necessarily be focused on the capital, explained an expert at a briefing held
this week.

Simon Sole, managing director of Exclusive Analysis, said: "The government's
decision to place more police in and around target areas such as tube stations
will merely help manage the aftermath of a bombing but will not prevent such
strikes."

Eight other European countries are considered to be under serious threat of
attack this year, including the Netherlands, Spain and France. Mr Sole added
Italy's fallout with the United States over the death of Nicola Calipari, an
Italian negotiator who was mistakenly killed by US troops last year, has
weakened the Italians' intelligence capability and made the country more
susceptible to terrorist attack.

In addition, the success of Norway's special forces in Afganistan has increased
its chances of suffering an attack by Sunni extremists.

Meanwhile, Mr Sole strongly advised underwriters not to get involved in Iraq as
the situation was likely to get worse before it got better, saying: "Information
to the contrary is probably based on political wishful thinking."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                 Copyright 2006 Timothy Benn Publishing Limited

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                January 20, 2006

Chirac threatens nuclear attack on states sponsoring terrorism

BYLINE: John Lichfield in Paris

LENGTH: 688 words


President Jacques Chirac has dropped a political bombshell by threatening to
retaliate with nuclear strikes against any state found to be responsible for a
large-scale terrorist attack on France.

In the biggest shift in French nuclear doctrine for 40 years, M. Chirac revealed
that the force de frappe - the French nuclear deterrent - had already been
reconfigured to allow it to destroy the "power centres" of any state which
sponsored a terrorist assault.

He also raised once again an idea that he first floated in 1995 that the British
and French nuclear deterrents should be rededicated to the defence of the entire
European Union. In future, he said, France should regard its allies and its
sources of strategic supplies - in other words oil - as covered by its nuclear
umbrella.

The President insisted that fundamental French nuclear policy would remain
unchanged. There would be no battlefield use of nuclear weapons and no "first
strike". Nonetheless, his speech yesterday at France's main nuclear submarine
base, at Ile Longue, near Brest, in Brittany, took French defence policy into
uncharted waters.

He appeared to imply that any large-scale, state-sponsored terrorist attack on
France - whether or not it used weapons of mass destruction - would invite a
closely targeted nuclear response from France.

"The leaders of states who use terrorist methods against us, as well as those
who consider using in one way or another weapons of mass destruction, must
understand that they would expose themselves to a firm and appropriate response
on our part," President Chirac said.

"This response could be a conventional one. It might also be of a different
kind."

"Against a regional power, we should not have to choose between inaction and
obliteration... the flexibility and reactivity of our strategic forces should
allow us to respond directly against his power centres, against his capacity to
act.

"All our nuclear forces have been reconfigured accordingly. To this end, the
number of warheads has been reduced on some missiles on our submarines."

France's nuclear submarines were previously said to have 16 missiles, with six
warheads each. Reducing the number of warheads implies the use of smaller
nuclear charges, more easily aimed at specific targets.

President Chirac's motives appear to be a mixture of the personal, the electoral
and the strategic. Opinion polls suggest that France no longer regards him as a
significant player in world or domestic events, and his speech yesterday appears
to be an attempt to thrust himself back into the limelight as an experienced
world statesman with a finger on the nuclear button.

He may also calculate that the nuclear issue will play badly for his hated
former protege, the Interior Minister, Nicolas Sarkozy, who remains favourite to
replace him in the presidential elections next spring.

M. Sarkozy is among a number of figures in France who have begun to question the
cost of the French nuclear deterrent, which is estimated at EUR3bn (£2bn) a
year, or 10 per cent of the defence budget, at a time when French public
spending faces drastic cuts to meet EU targets.

Beyond all that, however, M. Chirac was attempting to devise a new justification
for a nuclear force which he regards as one of the components of France's global
influence and one of the proudest achievements of the De Gaulle era.

He was also responding to those - at home and abroad - who suggest that France
has no right to lecture would-be nuclear powers such as Iran while it retains
its own weapons of mass destruction.

Some commentators suggested that M. Chirac's switch of nuclear policy could take
France into dangerous territory. By talking of closely targeted attacks on
regional "power centres", the President was making it sound as if the country's
"never-to-be-used" nuclear arsenal might be used after all.

The Communist deputy Jacques Brunhes said M. Chirac's position was extremely
dangerous: "It can only encourage states which have signed the non
-proliferation treaty to opt for military uses of nuclear technology."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Newspaper

               © Copyright 2006 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 20, 2006 Friday
                                 First Edition

Chirac threatens nuclear attack on states sponsoring terrorism

BYLINE: By John Lichfield in Paris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 675 words


President Jacques Chirac has dropped a political bombshell by threatening to
retaliate with nuclear strikes against any state found to be responsible for a
large-scale terrorist attack on France.

In the biggest shift in French nuclear doctrine for 40 years, M. Chirac revealed
that the force defrappe the French nuclear deterrent - had already been
reconfigured to allow it to destroy the "power centres" of any state which
sponsored a terrorist assault.

He also raised once again an idea that he first floated in 1995 that the British
and French nuclear deterrents should be rededicated to the defence of the entire
European Union. In future, he said, France should regard its allies and its
sources of strategic supplies - in other words oil - as covered by its nuclear
umbrella.

The President insisted that fundamental French nuclear policy would remain
unchanged. There would be no battlefield use of nuclear weapons and no "first
strike". Nonetheless, his speech yesterday at France's main nuclear submarine
base, at He Longue, near Brest, in Brittany, took French defence policy into
uncharted waters.

He appeared to imply that any large-scale, state-sponsored terrorist attack on
France - whether or not it used weapons of mass destruction - would invite a
closely targeted nuclear response from France.

"The leaders of states who use terrorist methods against us, as well as those
who consider using in one way or another weapons of mass destruction, must
understand that they would expose themselves to a firm and appropriate response
on our part," President Chirac said.

"This response could be a conventional one. It might also be of a different
kind."

"Against a regional power, we should not have to choose between inaction and
obliteration... the flexibility and reactivity of our strategic forces should
allow us to respond directly against his power centres, against his capacity to
act.

"All our nuclear forces have been reconfigured accordingly. To this end, the
number of warheads has been reduced on some missiles on our submarines."

France's nuclear submarines were previously said to have 16 missiles, with six
warheads each. Reducing the number of warheads implies the use of smaller
nuclear charges, more easily aimed at specific targets.

President Chirac's motives appear to be a mixture of the personal, the electoral
and the strategic. Opinion polls suggest that France no longer regards him as a
significant player in world or domestic events, and his speech yesterday appears
to be an attempt to thrust himself back into the limelight as an experienced
world statesman with a finger on the nuclear button.

He may also calculate that the nuclear issue will play badly for his hated
former protZgZ, the Interior Minister, Nicolas Sarkozy, who remains favourite to
replace him in the presidential elections next spring.

M. Sarkozy is among a number of figures in France who have begun to question the
cost of the French nuclear deterrent, which is estimated at EUR3bn (pounds 2bn)
a year, or 10 per cent of the defence budget, at a time when French public
spend-ing faces drastic cuts to meet EU targets.

Beyond all that, however, M. Chirac was attempting to devise a new justification
for a nuclear force which he regards as one of the components of France's global
influence and one of the proudest achievements of the De Gaulle era.

He was also responding to those - at home and abroad - who suggest that 0 France
has no right to lecture would-be nuclear powers such as Iran while it retains
its own weapons of mass destruction.

Some commentators suggested that M. Chirac's switch of nuclear policy could take
France into dangerous territory. By talking of closely targeted attacks on
regional "power centres", the President was making it sound as if the country's
"never-to-be-used" nuclear arsenal might be used after all.

The Communist deputy Jacques Brunhes said M. Chirac's position was extremely
dangerous: "It can only encourage states which have signed the non-proliferation
treaty to opt for military uses of nuclear technology."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jacques Chirac at the Me Longue naval base, home port of the nuclear
submarine fleet REMY DE LA MAUVINIERE/AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       January 20, 2006, Friday Edition 1

Bin Laden warns of new terror attacks

BYLINE: By Geoff Meade, The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 404 words


   Television news channel Al-Jazeera yesterday aired an audiotape purportedly
from Osama bin Laden, who says al Qaida is making preparations for attacks in
the United States, but offering a truce "with fair conditions".

The tape's release comes days after a US airstrike in Pakistan that was
targeting bin Laden's deputy, Ayman al-Zawahri, and reportedly killed four
leading al Qaida figures, including possibly al-Zawahri's son-in-law.

There was no mention of the attack on the segments that were broadcast. It was
the first tape which claimed to be of the al Qaida leader in more than a year
the longest period without a message since the September 11 2001 suicide
hijackings in the United States.

Al-Jazeera said the tape was recorded in the Islamic month that corresponds with
December.

The speaker refers to an alleged comment by US President George Bush about
bombing the Qatar headquarters of Al-Jazeera, which was first reported in the
British press on November 22.

He also refers indirectly to the July 7 bombings in London that killed 56
people, and to poll numbers that showed a fall in Bush's popularity, as occurred
in late 2005.

There was no immediate confirmation of the tape's authenticity, although the
voice resembled that of bin Laden's in previous messages.

US counter-terror officials said they have seen no specific or credible
intelligence to indicate an upcoming al Qaida attack on the country, despite a
new audio tape claiming preparations for such a mission.

The voice on the tape, purported to be bin Laden, said he was directing his
message to the American people after polls showed that "an overwhelming majority
of you want the withdrawal of American troops from Iraq but [Bush] opposed that
desire."

He said insurgents were winning the conflict in Iraq and warned that security
measures in the West and the United States could not prevent attacks there.

The speaker did not spell out conditions for a truce in the excerpts aired by
Al-Jazeera.

"We do not mind offering you a long-term truce with fair conditions that we
adhere to," he said.

Jeremy Bennie, a terrorism analyst for Jane's Defence Weekly, said bin Laden
appeared to be "playing the peacemaker, the more statesmanlike character" with
his offer of a truce.

The CIA had authenticated the voice on tape played by al-Jazeera as Osama bin
Laden, an agency official said in Washington late last night.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2006 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 21, 2006 Saturday

Two hundred schools closed down in Afghanistan for fear of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 336 words


Text of report by Pakistan-based Afghan Islamic Press news agency

Kandahar, 21 January: The chairman of the human rights office in southwest
Afghanistan says more than 200 schools have been closed down after a number of
schools were set ablaze in some areas.

Abdol Qader Nurzai, the chairman of the human rights office in the southwest,
told Afghan Islamic Press [AIP] in an interview today that more than 200 schools
had been closed down in the provinces of Kandahar, Urozgan, Zabol and Helmand.

He added: "Fifty schools have been closed down in Urozgan, 59 in Helmand, 50 in
Kandahar and 61 in Zabol after schools were set on fire and students, teachers
and other officials were attacked and leaflets were distributed in the south.
Many teachers, students and other officials are not willing to go to school."

Nurzai said: "We have informed our central office and the local security forces.
But security forces have said there are not enough of them to protect all
schools."

He said: "If these problems are not solved, there is a possibility that other
schools will be closed down and thousands of students will be deprived of
education."

The head of the Kandahar Education Department, Hayatollah Rafiqi, has also
confirmed the closure of 50 schools in Kandahar and told AIP: "We have informed
the Education Ministry."

There are reports that schools have been set on fire and students and teachers
have been attacked in the provinces of Helmand, Kandahar and also in other
regions.

The spokesman for the Taleban, Qari Mohammad Yusof, told AIP that the Taleban
themselves were students and would never attack schools that do not teach
anti-Islamic educational materials.

The Taleban spokesman denied their involvement in the attacking or burning of
schools.

Recent attacks on schools have left a negative impact on the southwestern
provinces. Observers say if the government fails to deal with the problem, there
will be negative consequences.

Source: Afghan Islamic Press news agency, Peshawar, in Pashto 0939 gmt 21 Jan 06

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 21, 2006 Saturday

Russia: Nalchik attackers reportedly condemn masterminds behind terrorist act

LENGTH: 152 words


Text of report by New York-based KavkazWeb.net website on 21 January

21 January: The editor's office of KavkazWeb.net has received a letter from
those involved in the October attack on Nalchik. Authors of the letter expressed
their disfavour for organizers of the terrorist act and described them as
"cowards and instigators" because they had not wanted to be killed along with
terrorists [the attackers].

The terrorists [the authors of the letter] described a former US prisoner, Rasul
Kudayev, as "the main mastermind behind Jihad in the Republic of
Kabarda-Balkaria" and said that Kudayev had allegedly managed to buy off and
fled to Turkey.

We failed to receive confirmation of the given utterances for the time being.
According to local experts, however, names of the authors of the letter are of
the Wahhabis well-known in Kabarda-Balkaria.

Source: KavkazWeb.net website, New York, in Russian 1622 gmt 21 Jan 06

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           January 21, 2006 Saturday

My sex attack terror in A&E;
Groggy and attached to a drip, this teenager froze with fear as a patient forced
himself on her just feet from nurses . . . yet another example of the hospital
chaos Labour has failed to fix

BYLINE: OLINKA KOSTER

SECTION: ED 1ST; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 796 words


SUFFERING agonising stomach cramps, Anne-Marie lay in a hospital bed waiting to
be seen by casualty staff.

The 17-year-old felt she was in safe hands and the mystery illness that had laid
her low at home for a week would finally be diagnosed.

Instead, she became the victim of a horrifying sex attack by fellow patient
Damien Madden.

Staff had twice spotted the 28-year-old in Anne-Marie's room but took no action.

The third time, powerfully-built Madden sat on her bed and sexually assaulted
her as she lay frozen in terror, her arm hooked up to a drip.

Yesterday, Anne-Marie who has asked for her surname not to be revealed said lax
security in underfunded hospitals could lead to similar attacks.

She was expecting to see a nurse when Madden first entered her side-room off the
A&E ward at East Surrey Hospital in Redhill.

'The door was open so he just walked straight in and sat down on a chair and
said "Hello",' she recalled.

A nurse spotted him and ordered him out but minutes later he was back, this time
carrying a roll of white surgical tape.

He turned around, revealing that he was naked under his open hospital gown, and
asked the teenager to tape up the back for him.

Again a nurse spotted him, but because Anne-Marie thought he was harmless she
made no complaint and he was not told to leave.

Madden began staring at her, telling her she was beautiful and pestering her for
her phone number, then abruptly left.

Moments later he was back, carrying a pen. This time he closed the door.

Anne-Marie wrote a false phone number on his hand hoping he would go away but
instead he sat on the edge of her bed and tried to kiss her.

Anne-Marie, who was groggy after being given strong painkillers, said: 'I was
still in pain and couldn't move because I was attached to the drip.

'I pulled my head away but all I could do was move it from side to side. I
pushed him off and told him to get out but he just said "You're spoiling it".

'Then he grabbed one of my breasts. All I had on was my bra and gown and it was
really scary. Normally I like to think I can protect myself and would stand up
to anyone who attacked me.

'But he was really broad and tall and I was so weak. At the time, even though I
am 5ft 11in, I only weighed around 7st because I wasn't eating properly.

'While he was touching me I tried to push him away but he started moving his
hand around.

'Then he grabbed my left hand which wasn't attached to the drip and put it on
his crotch. It was disgusting.

'I didn't want to cry in front of him. I was trying to hold it in but I told him
to stop it or I would call the nurse.' Anne-Marie said she was unable to reach
the panic button because it was 6ft away.

'Then he said to me "Come on, I'm going to have sex with you, you're just making
it harder for yourself",' she said.

At the point where Anne-Marie felt she was about to be raped, a nurse arrived
and ordered Madden out. Two minutes later police arrived and set up a security
cordon.

Madden, of Croydon, South London, was arrested and charged with sexual assault
and causing a woman to engage in sexual activity without consent.

For the next 18 months he prolonged his victim's ordeal by refusing to plead
guilty.

She began to prepare for the ordeal of giving evidence in court, but Madden
changed his plea to guilty to both charges at the last minute.

This month, he was sentenced to 20 months in prison for the August 2004 attack
and placed on the sex offenders' register for ten years.

Anne-Marie said: 'I was really messed up after it happened and lost all my
confidence. I realised I couldn't protect myself and that has really scared me.

'I'm afraid to go out on my own and worry that something might happen again,
particularly if I have to go into hospital again.

'I don't blame the nurses because they are so busy, and the NHS is underfunded.

It needs more money but hospitals should make sure that such a simple thing,
such as a patient being able to reach their alarm, is in place.' She said her
mother, an aircraft cleaner, and father, who owns a landscaping business, have
not pushed her for details of the attack.

'I haven't really talked to my family about what happened as they have to see me
every day and I don't really want them to have to look at me and imagine what
happened,' she said.

'If the nurse had not come in at that moment I would have been raped so I think
Madden should have been sentenced as if he had raped me.

'Twenty months doesn't seem very long and he is going to be out before that and
I am worried, from what I saw of his personality, that he is the type of person
who might try to find me.' Immediately after her ordeal, Anne-Marie now 18 and
an interior design student was moved to a maternity ward and diagnosed with a
burst ovarian cyst. She has made a full recovery.

o.koster@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 22, 2006 Sunday

Afghan daily says districts must be reinforced to avert terror attacks

LENGTH: 295 words


Text of editorial by Afghan state-run newspaper Hewad on 21 January entitled
"Strengthening districts"

Terrorists have recently stepped up their subversive attacks. We maintain that
the terrorists' efforts will be in vain and no attack can hamper the ongoing
reconstruction process and formation of the state system.

However, this does not mean that officials should take for granted or remain
indifferent to these attacks. The norms of politics and war require that the
more the enemy steps up its terrorist attacks the more effective and stronger
measures should be taken to thwart their subversive efforts.

Strengthening local departments, particularly border districts, is of great
importance in the current climate as domestic and foreign enemies of peace and
stability have changed the tactics of their operations.

Military developments over the past four years have demonstrated that the
terrorists have lost the power to carry out extensive military operations and
can carry out subversive attacks only in remote regions.

In order to prevent such attacks, border districts should be strengthened. After
the terrible explosion in Spin Boldak, religious scholars and influential people
in Kandahar put forward a proposal to Hamed Karzai to strengthen border
districts.

This proposal is helpful and people hope that officials will consider effective
ways of strengthening these districts. One point should be clear: only a
politically, economically and militarily strong district can prevent terrorist
attacks or foreign interference.

Also, the policy of appointments at district level needs to be reviewed again.
Only patriotic, experienced and professional people should be appointed as
district chiefs and security commanders.

Source: Hewad, Kabul, in Pashto 21 Jan 06

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 23, 2006 Monday

Afghan daily says killing civilians in terror attacks never justified

LENGTH: 202 words


Text of editorial by Afghan state-run newspaper Eslah on 22 January entitled
"Islam does not permit the unjustified killing of a Muslim"

Al-Qa'idah leader Usamah Bin-Ladin recently claimed that the US presence in
Afghanistan and Iraq is against the will of the American people.

This is the Al-Qa'idah leader's first message following one year of silence. It
also indicates that Al-Qa'idah's suicide attacks will continue.

Al-Qa'idah terrorist attacks are still continuing in Iraq and they have been
carrying out suicide attacks in an unprecedented manner in Afghanistan.

The tactics used by this organization have changed. In addition to targeting
NATO and Afghan military forces, Al-Qa'idah recently launched terrorist attacks
that led to the martyrdom of 27 people and left another 20 injured. All the
people killed and injured were civilians with no connection to any political
party or organization. By killing them, Al-Qa'idah has again shown that it is an
extremist organization. It wants to create panic among civilians by doing this.

Regardless of in what name it is done, killing civilians is against all the
teachings and principles of Islam. Islam condemns such acts.

Source: Eslah, Kabul, in Dari 22 Jan 06

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 24, 2006 Tuesday

Washington alerts Bangladesh to possible terror attack

LENGTH: 385 words


Text of report by Arif Newaz Farazi entitled: "Security beefed up as JMB plan to
kill Peace Corps members" published by Bangladeshi newspaper New Age on 24
January

Security for members of the US Peace Corps in Bangladesh has been heightened
after the embassy of the United States informed the foreign ministry of a plot
by the banned Islamist organization Jamaat-ul-Mojahedin Bangladesh to kill them,
said sources in the home ministry.

The Peace Corps members have already been warned of the Jamaat-ul- Mojahedin
plot, Sanaul K. Chowdhury, security investigations officer of the embassy, told
New Age on Monday [23 January]. 'We have also informed the foreign ministry of
the plot to take necessary measures.'

The embassy sent a letter to the foreign ministry a couple of days back,
claiming that the suicide squad of the militant organization had plans to kill
the Peace Corps members, confirmed sources in the ministry.

'The Foreign Office, in its turn, informed the home ministry of the plan and
asked it to look into the matter and take necessary steps,' said a foreign
ministry official.

The embassy took note of a 18 January report in the local media that
Jamaat-ul-Mojahedin was planning to assign suicide squads to kill Peace Corps
members. The report was based on the confessional statement of a Mojahedin.

'We came to know about the plot after a national daily had carried the report in
the third week of January and immediately notified the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and the US State Department in Washington,' said an embassy source.

More than 100 members of the Peace Corps are currently working in Bangladesh and
a security investigations officer has been assigned for their security, he said.
'We have also advised them [Peace Corps members] to move with caution.'

The Ministry of Home Affairs has, meanwhile, ordered heightened security at the
embassy and all other institutions of the US in Bangladesh, said intelligence
sources.

Enayetullah Jewel, an explosives expert of Jamaat-ul-Mojahedin who was arrested
at village Telipara of Joydevpur in Gazipur on 5 December, 2005 with a huge
quantity of bomb-making materials and a 10-kilogram bomb, is reported to have
confessed during interrogation that the organization had plans to kill the Peace
Corps members.

Source: New Age, Dhaka, in English 24 Jan 06

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            January 24, 2006 Tuesday

Interior minister in Russia's Kabarda-Balkaria warns of new terror attacks

LENGTH: 149 words


Text of report by Russian news agency Regnum

23 January: "The reports coming in show that those gang leaders and members who
are still at large have not given up their criminal plans and are getting ready
for new terrorist attacks on civilians, which they call jihad," Kabarda-Balkar
Interior Minister Lt-Gen Khachim Shogenov has said at a session of the Interior
Ministry.

He emphasized that in this connection efforts should be stepped up to search and
detain members of the criminal underground and to stop their financial support.
Reports show that they have substantial amounts of money, the minister said. The
attack on Nalchik, the responsibility for which has been claimed by well-known
international terrorists, is part of a major well-funded plan to destabilize the
situation in Russia's south and in the country as a whole, he said.

Source: Regnum, Moscow, in Russian 1300 gmt 23 Jan 06

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           January 24, 2006, Tuesday

VANDALS ATTACK FAMILY;
 TERROR: VICTIM SAYS HE MAY MOVE HOME AFTER ROCK IS THROWN THROUGH

BYLINE: BY SAM WEBB

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 260 words

HIGHLIGHT: TERRIFIED... David Calvert (centre) with family (from left)
sister-in-law Onuma Sonachai, children Naratip and Mark and wife Praeopan,left
Mr Calvert with the boarded-up window. Pictures: Lisa Carey. D30573_2.


DAD David Calvert says he is too terrified to live in his own house after a rock
was hurled through his living-room window while he watched television with his
family.

David, aged 42, of Wheelwright Lane, Holbrooks, Coventry, is thinking of moving
house after the large stone sent shards of glass into the room where he and his
wife Praeopan, aged 35, and eight-year-old son Mark were watching a film on
Sunday night.

IT support worker David, who also has another son called Naratip, aged six, who
was in bed at the time, says he has no idea why the attack was made on his
family home.

He said: "We were watching a film when a six-inch lump of sandstone was thrown
through the window.

"I jumped up and panicked. I thought it might have been a car hitting the house
at first.

"By the time I got outside I couldn't see anybody. As you can imagine it was
quite terrifying.

"I haven't got a clue why this happened, but I'm worried it's racially motivated
as I'm married to a Thai lady."

Now he is considering moving from his home of three years.

He added: "I felt sick, completely sick. I've been off work because of it and I
don't know whether we are going to move house or not.

"My sister-in-law Onuma is staying here and I don't think it's given her a very
good impression of Britain.

"I've never had anything like this before. It's normally very good around here."

Police are treating the attack as criminal damage and anyone with information is
asked to contact Stoney Stanton Road police station on 0845 113 5000.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2006 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                           January 25, 2006 Wednesday

Teenager in tears as she tells of street attack terror

BYLINE:  Jamie Buchan

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 519 words


A Teenager broke down in tears yesterday as she told a jury how her boyfriend
was punched and stamped on by a gang of men.

Kelly Smith wrapped herself round partner Shaun Conlane's head to try to protect
him from blows raining down on him.

The 16-year-old wanted to block a potentially devastating blow to Mr Conlane's
temple.

But she told Peterhead Sheriff  Court that his attackers "just didn't care".

Miss Smith was giving evidence on day two of the trial of three Peterhead men.

Steven Mitchell, 19, of 23 Aalesund Road; Kenneth Smith, 23, of 7 Poplar
Crescent; and Paul Smith, 21, of 17 Pitfour Court Road, are accused of
assaulting the 21-year-old and repeatedly punching and kicking him on the head
and body, as well as repeatedly stamping on him to his permanent impairment and
severe injury.

The incident is said to have happened on Hallowe'en in 2004. All three deny the
single charge against them and each has submitted a special defence that, if Mr
Conlane was attacked, it was not by them, but by another man, Mark Smith, of
Peterhead.

Mitchell and Paul Smith also claim they were acting in self-defence after Mr
Conlane attacked them.

The jury of nine men and six women yesterday heard Miss Smith, who was 15 at the
time of the incident, describe how  food was pelted at her boyfriend's car as
they drove out of McDonald's restaurant in Peterhead earlier that afternoon.

Mr Conlane pulled into a nearby bus stop to check for any damage to his black
Fiat Punto. Miss Smith said she saw people running through Dales Industrial
Estate and thought it was the same people who had thrown food at the car.

Miss Smith told the court that Mr Conlane shouted to them: "What have I done to
deserve this?"

Under cross-examination by defence agent Ian Jane, acting for Mitchell, she said
one of the people in the estate shouted back: "You've been giving my brother
hassle."

Later that afternoon, Miss Smith and her boyfriend were in the industrial estate
when they saw two cars pulling up to near where they were standing.

She said up to eight people got out.

"Mr Conlane said something like: Woah, woah, boys  what have I done?" she said.
"He moved straight behind me."

Miss Smith said: "I couldn't understand why they were there and why there was so
many of them and why they were after Shaun. I can't understand that to this
day."

She said that she held out her hands to stop the men coming closer and was
shouted at by one of the female members of the group.

"I turned round and saw Shaun lying on the floor," she said. "I got down on my
knees and curled myself around his head.

"They were shouting at him, kicking him and stamping on his belly. They were
full force kicks."

She said the beating continued for up to 10 minutes, but told the court the men
stopped to speak to each other after she had been struck by one of the blows.

When asked if she recognised who had been involved in the attack, she pointed to
the three men in the dock.

The court heard that Mr Conlane had suffered bruising and a broken ankle in the
attack. Miss Smith said he now found it hard to do "simple things" like shopping
and driving.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 25, 2006 Wednesday

Iraq's Al-Anbar tribes launch attack "terrorists" in Al-Qa'im

LENGTH: 195 words


Al-Sharqiyah Television between 0500 and 1300 gmt on 25 January has been
observed to carry the following reports on the security developments throughout
Iraq.

Within its 0800 gmt, Al-Sharqiyah reports that "the US troops raided an
agricultural area south of Al-Ramadi city, the centre of Al-Anbar governorate".

According to Al-Sharqiyah Television correspondent, the US troops informed the
families living there that they should leave the area as soon as possible "on
the pretext that armed men inside the area fired mortars at military vehicles
and personnel".

The report adds that after the families left the area, "the US warplanes
bombarded the empty houses and levelled them to the ground".

Moreover, Al-Sharqiyah reports that Usamah Jad'an al-Dulaymi, a tribal chief in
Al-Qa'im area in Al-Anbar, announced in a radio statement that the tribal chiefs
in the region began a military operation against "terrorists".

Al-Dulaymi adds that "many tribal formations are willing to drive out foreigners
and infiltrators," and that "tribal chiefs will pursue them throughout Iraq to
make sure they get fair punishment."

Source: Al-Sharqiyah, Baghdad, in Arabic 0800 gmt 25 Jan 06

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           January 25, 2006 Wednesday

Obituary of Zaki Badawi Islamic scholar who condemned the fatwa against Salman
Rushdie and terrorist attacks in New York and London

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1137 words


ZAKI BADAWI, who has died aged 83, was the Principal of the Muslim College in
London, which he established in 1986, and also chairman of the Imams and Mosques
Council of the United Kingdom.

Badawi, who was generally regarded as the most senior and respected Islamic
scholar in Britain, worked towards evolving what he described as a "European and
even British form of Islam''. Although he joked that some militant Muslims
dismissed him as an "Uncle Tom'', his formidable scholarship meant he came to be
treated as the final authority on many issues of Sharia law.

On numerous occasions since the Salman Rushdie affair first erupted in 1989,
Badawi spoke out against terrorism by Muslims. He was particularly vocal after
the attacks on the Twin Towers in New York on September 11 2001 - "a violation
of Islamic laws and ethics - I just felt utter disgust and really very, very
great anger''. Most recently, he condemned the suicide bombings in London in
July last year.

Badawi opposed the Iraq war but said that Muslim soldiers in the British Army
had a duty to fight for Queen and country - and their country was Britain. This
was a stinging rebuke to Muslim hardliners who insisted their duty to Islam took
precedence over loyalty to the Queen.

While terrorists have used the Koran to justify suicide bombings and other acts
of violence, Badawi, immensely more knowledgeable, used the same book to
pinpoint why terrorism was a "declaration of war on God and on His Messenger''.

He argued: "It is a negation of every rule of the Sharia which decrees that
innocent life is sacred, property is inviolate and that the peace of mind of the
public must be safeguarded. Those who preach the message of hate serve no
religious cause and those who incite the ill-informed, maladjusted and alienated
to commit criminal acts do so not as servants of a noble faith or a legitimate
cause but operators for base ambitions disguised as pious and religious.''

While continuing to speak on behalf of 1.6 million Muslims in Britain, Badawi's
message remained the same - that the true teachings of the Koran were
incompatible with terrorism. From his earliest days in Britain, he set out,
through his writings, speeches, newspaper interviews, appearances on Radio 4 and
on television, to advocate co-existence and the development of British Islam.

His philosophy could be summed up in a single sentence: "There is Egyptian
Islam, there is Indian Islam, there is Saudi Wahhabi Islam, there is Iranian
Shia Islam, so why can't there be British Islam?'' It was perhaps a measure of
the success of his long campaign that his primary belief - "people can be
British and Muslim'' - has recently received more widespread acceptance.

Outside Britain, Badawi was not always accorded the respect and courtesy that he
received here. Last summer he was refused entry by US immigration at JFK
airport, New York, despite landing with a visa. He was sent back to Britain.
Though the Americans later apologised after realising they had expelled
Britain's leading Muslim moderate, Badawi was deeply offended and did not
return. The American insult's chief effect, however, was to reinforce his sense
of Britishness.

Last November he gave a speech, aimed partly at British-born young Muslims,
praising Britain for trying to find a sense of national cohesion through
diversity.

"In Great Britain,'' he said, "we are lucky to have a society that is
endeavouring to achieve the ideals accommodating differences, not simply with
tolerant indifference, but with an interest in engagement with each other. This
celebration of diversity sends a message to our people, and especially our
youth, and the whole world that here is an example to emulate to build trust,
harmony and peace in a modern society. There are elements who are misfits and
who are disloyal to the basic values of our society. They do not reflect on the
citizens of the country nor should they shame their particular community, nor
should their crimes degrade the faith they claim to belong to... The strength of
our common unity in diversity will help us through any difficulty.''

Zaki Badawi came to Britain in 1951 from his native Egypt, where he was born
just outside Cairo on August 11 1922. He was educated at al-Azhar University in
Cairo, the leading Islamic academic institution in the world for Sunni Muslims.
He obtained al-Aliyah, the equivalent of a Bachelor of Arts degree, from the
College of Theology at the university, and al-Alimiyah degree (Masters) from the
Faculty of Arabic Language and Literature in 1947. In the same year he received
the King Farouk First Prize for the best post-graduate student.

He had been a member of the Muslim Brotherhood, which later attempted to
assassinate Nasser, but left the organisation the previous year when it first
advocated violence.

After teaching at al-Azhar for a short while, Badawi moved to the United Kingdom
in 1951 to study Psychology at University College London, where he obtained his
BA in 1954. He was later awarded a doctorate from London University in Modern
Muslim Thought.

He married an Englishwoman, Mavis, in 1956, before returning to al-Azhar
University to teach Muslim Thought and Scientific Research Methods. He was then
sent as a representative of the university to Malaya to establish a Muslim
college there. After teaching Arabic and Islamic Studies at the University of
Malaya in Singapore, he lectured in the same course at the University of Malaya
in Kuala Lumpur.

In 1964 Badawi was appointed Professor of Islamic Education at Ahmadu Bello
University in Northern Nigeria and later Professor of Islamic Education and Dean
of Arts at Bayero College, Nigeria. In 1976 he was appointed research professor
at the Hajj Research Centre of King Abdul Aziz University in Saudi Arabia,
stationed in London.

In 1978 he became director of the Islamic Cultural Centre (ICC) and Chief Imam
of London Central Mosque in Regent's Park. He was elected chairman of the Imams
and Mosques Council by the National Conference of Imams and Mosque Officials of
the UK in 1984. Badawi subsequently held high office in many of the most
important Islamic organisations in Britain and came to be considered possibly
the "sanest and most moderate'' Muslim voice in the country.

He was given an honorary knighthood in 2003 and took great pride in being a
member of the Athenaeum.

He was an adviser to British financial institutions on such issues as Islamic
mortgages. He was attending the fifth annual Islamic Finance Summit in London
yesterday when he collapsed; he died shortly afterwards.

The Muslim College he founded was aimed at producing homegrown imams, which he
felt would get round the problem of importing preachers who spoke little or no
English and whose loyalties were sometimes a little suspect.

Badawi is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                     January 25, 2006, Wednesday Edition 1

Needle attack terror

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 85 words


   A parking warden was attacked by a man who stabbed her in the arm with a
syringe.

The victim, 24, felt a pain as a man knocked into her as he walked by. The man
then turned and began laughing at her as he held a syringe in his hand.

He ran off as the woman, who works for NCP in Sunderland, realised she had a
wound. The victim, not being identified, was treated at Sunderland Royal
Hospital and is awaiting test results.

The attack was at 9.20am yesterday in Thompson Road, Sunderland.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2006 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 25, 2006 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Terror laws under attack as stop and search figure soars to 36,000

BYLINE: By Ben Russell Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 569 words


Charles Clarke, the Home Secretary, is facing an onslaught over the Government's
anti-terror laws after figures showed nearly 36,000 people were stopped and
searched under the emergency powers last year. The number of people stopped and
searched each year has soared since the Act came into force in 2001, when 10,200
people were stopped. It rose to 33,800 in 2003-04.

Campaigners will mount a legal challenge in the House of Lords today, as they
attempt to limit the laws giving police sweeping powers to stop people even if
they have no grounds to suspect them of a crime.

The Home Office revealed that people were being stopped at the rate of nearly
100 a day under the powers used to detain a peace campaigner, Walter Wolfgang,
at last year's Labour Party conference.

Figures in a Home Office report showed that 35,776 searches of vehicles and
people were recorded under Section 44 of the Terrorism Act, which was passed six
years ago. Despite the high number of people stopped, only 455 were arrested.
The newest statistics, which cover the 2004-05 financial year and do not include
the aftermath of the July bomb attacks on London, represent a record use of the
powers since the Act came into force.

The Home Office insisted the powers were essential to disrupt terrorist
activity.

But campaigners warned that the law opened the door to discrimination and could
be used to suppress legitimate demonstrations. A detailed breakdown of people
stopped under the Act in 2003-04 found that more than one in five of those
stopped were black or Asian, while reports suggest a huge increase in the number
of black and Asian people being stopped since the London bomb attacks.

Lawyers acting for the civil rights pressure group Liberty will launch a test
case in the House of Lords today, claiming the law breaches fundamental human
rights.

They will press the case of Pennie Quinton and Kevin Gillan, who were among
about 140 people arrested under the Terrorism Act at an international arms fair
in east London in 2003.

Ministers also face opposition in the House of Lords next week when Liberal
Democrat and Conservative peers will attempt to tighten the law to limit the
power of police to authorise blanket stop-and-search operations.

Under conventional law, you can be stopped and searched by police if they have
any suspicion you have committed a crime.

But the Terrorism Act, when sanctioned by a senior officer, allows police to
stop and search people even without suspicion - something that campaigners say
is a throwback to the notorious "sus" laws of the 1970s. Shami Chakrabarti, the
director of Liberty, said: "This is almost worse than the sus laws. The police
have the power to change the law of the land in whole parts of the country."

Dominic Grieve, the shadow Attorney General, said: "These figures speak for
themselves. The powers are being used as a blunt instrument and it is far from
clear if those arrested are being done so for terrorism. "While we accept such
powers may be necessary to protect the public from terrorism, it is vital these
powers are not abused."

A spokeswoman for the Home Office insisted the legislation was needed to disrupt
potential terrorist attacks. She said: "Stop and search under Section 44 is an
important tool in the fight against terrorism. As part of a structured strategy,
it aims to create a hostile environment for would-be terrorists to operate in."

LEADING ARTICLE, PAGE 26

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 27, 2006 Friday
                                 0 Star Edition

YOUR TOP FIVE..TERRORIST FILMS;
THE ATTACK ON ISRAELI ATHLETES AT THE 1972 OLYMPICS IS THE SUBJECT OF MUNICH,
RELEASED TODAY. TO MARK THE EVENT, JOHN PENROSE, OF HOLMFIRTH, WEST YORKS, PICKS
HIS TOP FIVE TERRORIST FILMS.

BYLINE: JOHN PENROSE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 243 words


1.NIGHTHAWKS (1981)

A Sylvester Stallone movie? Well yes, the big lug could actually act before he
disappeared up his own bottom. But the scene stealer here was Rutger Hauer's
smooth, cold-hearted terrorist who, among his many crimes, kills an air hostess
purely so he can use her flat. He wages a campaign against New York and only Sly
can save the day - of course.

2. DIE HARD (1988)

In Hollywood, all the villains are English but all the best terrorists are
German. Alan Rickman's sneering Hans Gruber takes over a gleaming new office
block but doesn't reckon on Bruce Willis in his vest. In the end, Gruber takes a
long dive off the top of the building.

3. THE ROCK (1996)

Geeky Nicolas Cage and grizzled Sean Connery join forces to take on maverick war
hero Ed Harris who has comandeered Alcatraz and threatens to launch a chemical
strike on San Francisco.

4.DAY OF THE JACKAL (1973)

Forget Bruce Willis's poor remake. This is the Daddy. Suave and debonair Edward
Fox plans to assassinate French President Charles de Gaulle. The pressure builds
gradually as the Jackal criss-crosses Europe putting his deadly plan into
action. But can the police save him in time? A classic.

5.THE CRYING GAME (1992)

IRA man Fergus (Stephen Rea) kidnaps a British soldier and when it all goes
wrong flees to London. There Fergus befriends the soldier's girlfriend Dil
without letting on about his past - but Dil has her secrets too. This has one of
the best plot twists of any movie.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BIG LUG: Stallone' THRILLS: Die Hard (top), The Rock, Day Of The Jackal
and Crying Game

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           January 28, 2006 Saturday

Conservative daily says UK embassy involved in terror attack in Iran

LENGTH: 280 words


Text of report by Iranian newspaper Resalat website on 28 January

[Headline:] "What are foreigners doing in Ahvaz?"

By Gholamreza Heydari

Bomber terrorists and foreign mercenaries are freely killing people in Ahvaz.
These vile and wretched elements benefit form the think tank of the British
embassy in Tehran as well as British military logistics in Basra. All the
evidence, signs and signals point to the impression of the footprints of the
unprincipled criminal foreigners in this plot. Why is this so?

One of the slogans chanted by people during the funeral of the Ahvaz martyrs was
"Death to Britain".

What is really going on behind the high walls of the British embassy on Ferdowsi
Avenue in Tehran? It is impossible to deny the fact that the operation which the
American Den of Spies failed to accomplish in 1358 [1979] because of the
takeover of this embassy is now being pursued by the elements of the foreign
services at the British Embassy.

What are the Foreign Ministry, the Interior Ministry and the Intelligence
Ministry doing? What is the answer provided by the Ahvaz intelligence department
to these issues? Why should spies be so free as to operate in this province and
commit crimes [i.e. bomb] a state department? Are the staff of the intelligence
department on holidays?

In any case, following the recent bombings, the effectiveness, the efficiency
and the disciple of the Khuzestan intelligence department is being questioned.
The intelligence minister should deal with them without leniency. All
considerations should be set aside except the security of the system and
people's lives, property and well being.

Source: Resalat website, Tehran, in Persian 28 Jan 06

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gloucester Citizen

                            January 30, 2006 Monday

Schoolgirl's terror after scissors attack

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 312 words


Ann-marie McCullough has become a prisoner in her own home after bullies
attacked her with scissors at school.

The 16-year-old says she had clumps of her hair cut and was pushed to the floor
and repeatedly punched by a gang of five girls and a boy.

The student at St Benedict's Catholic School and Sports College in Arle Road,
Cheltenham, is now too afraid to leave the house.

Her mum Angela, 38, who lives in Ashland Road, Hester's Way, Cheltenham, will
not allow her daughter to return to the school. But is now afraid that the
trauma of the incident, coupled with the fact that Ann-Marie now has to study at
home, will have an adverse effect on her GCSEs.

She says the family is deeply upset and afraid the bullies may strike again
after Ann-Marie received death threats.

Angela said: "We've been constantly keeping our eye out and jumping at the
slightest noise. We're not sure what will happen - we're all on edge."

Ann-Marie has been left with a two-inch bald patch on her scalp and finds it too
distressing to speak about what happened.

When her mum went to collect her from school on the day of the incident, which
happened in a stairwell at the school, she was given an A4 folder containing her
daughter's hair.

She said: "Ann-Marie was shaking and crying. She was too frightened to look in
the mirror after she saw her hair on the floor. She felt sick, her head was
pounding. I'd never seen her in such a mess."

Ann-Marie passed out when she returned home and was taken to Cheltenham General
Hospital, where doctors treated her for shock.

Head teacher Teresa Gilpin said: "There was a fight between two girls.

"It was very unpleasant. We take any behaviour like this extremely seriously, it
is completely inappropriate in school.

"One of the girls is under fixed term exclusion.

"The police are involved, they have asked us to cease investigating as it is now
in their hands."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 The Gloucester Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Banker

                                February 1, 2006

Taking Issue - Political Risk Analysts Are Expecting Further Terror Attacks On
New York Or London, And China Is In A Strong Position To Ride Out A Slowdown In
The US Economy. Brian Caplen Reports

SECTION: CAPITAL MARKETS

LENGTH: 722  words


Threat of terror is stronger than ever

What happens after the next terror attack on the US or the UK? Sorry to begin
this 2006 outlook on such a depressing note but political risk analysts are
talking about when - not if - terror returns to New York or London, and they are
busy debating the implications.

A report by Exclusive Analysis states boldly: "The War on Terror is absorbing
substantial amounts of US military and fiscal resources and has made little
overall progress in 2005. On the other hand, the Sunni extremist network has now
attacked London. The US homeland is increasingly at risk of attack. President
Bush characterises terrorism as a war to be won, making the stakes much higher
than if he opposed terrorism as a risk to be managed."

The chilling part of this account is that it does not come from a left-of-
centre political group but from disinterested political risk analysts (although
I suppose you could argue they have an interest in talking risk up). According
to the Exclusive Analysis account, there is risk and failure everywhere: if the
US starts withdrawing its military from Iraq, the extremists attracted by its
presence will move on, too - that heightens the risks of terror in Jordan,
Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Syria and Yemen.

Exclusive Analysis says the Iraq project was meant to demonstrate that democracy
in the Middle East was possible. However, since stable democracy in Iraq has not
emerged (and civil war remains a possibility), other regional leaders are more
fearful of change than before.

In any case, where there is democracy, Middle Eastern electorates are likely to
vote for fundamentalists and, in so doing, defeat the American purpose; witness
the success of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt.

Then there is the lack of progress in intelligence gathering in the US and the
UK to worry about. "Attacks [in the UK] will likely become more effective over
time as groups learn from each other and the mass-media coverage of intelligence
efforts and counter terrorist activities. Intelligence, not security, is the key
to preventing further attacks but... intelligence services are being stretched
to capacity and intelligence reform is unlikely."

Across the Atlantic, the situation is as dire. "The intelligence apparatus in
the US is constantly tinkered with but is arguably in worse condition than it
was at the start of 2005. A no-sharing culture remains between different
agencies and indeed is worse after much restructuring of the bureaucracy, which
has left analysts demoralised and defensive."

If the outlook on the political front is all bad, how about the economy?

China will not suffer from US recession

At this time of the year, it is becoming fairly standard to forecast a US
recession caused by a housing crash that slows down consumer spending and then
hits corporate profits. In the past, a US recession has been synonymous with
global slowdown, but not any more. Or at least do not expect China and the rest
of the emerging economies to suffer the most, as has traditionally been the
case.

It would be a first if the pain of any future slowdown were felt mostly in
western Europe. But some economists are predicting this on the basis that
Chinese exports will hold up better than Europe's and because the China domestic
market is now so strong as to be a growth engine in its own right. With other
emerging markets such as Brazil selling more to China, they are also more
independent of US fortunes than in the past.

Jung Ulrich, managing director and head of markets, China, at JPMorgan, says:
"China is much less dependent on the US economy than smaller countries because
it has 1.3 billion consumers of its own." China's trading partners have also
become diversified. The EU was China's largest partner in 2005, with the US
second and Japan third.

The other big change coming in China is the type of growth. Under the new
five-year plan the government has pledged to move from high growth to
sustainable development and to keep five balances between: international and
domestic; coast and inland; urban and rural; economy and society; man and
nature. And when the two are in conflict (for example, man and nature), the
weaker partner (nature) is supposed to triumph.

It is a bold statement coming out of a country that has so far accepted
pollution as merely an inevitable price of growth.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                Copyright 2006 Financial Times Business Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 3, 2006 Friday

Afghan paper debates reasons of increased terrorist attacks in country

LENGTH: 403 words


Text of editorial titled "Why attacks have increased?", published by Afghan
newspaper Cheragh on 1 February

The attacks by the Taleban fugitives have increased since the beginning of the
current solar year and the Afghan government believes that Pakistan is backing
Al-Qa'idah.

The American-led coalition forces, which were thought to be making progress this
year in destroying terrorism or at least arresting one of their leaders, have
proved to be unsuccessful. There are different factors behind the country's
failure to combat terrorism. As an example, the US's regional ally declines to
sincerely cooperate in the fight against terrorism.

Pakistan, which again deceived the United States last year, is still supporting,
despite its commitments, the terrorist groups. This has turned the combat
against terrorism into a failure and has encouraged more attacks by the Taleban.

The conduct of the government and US soldiers in Afghanistan are one of the
other factors.

The government has failed to address the roots of terrorism, namely economic
problems and the slow reconstruction process. One of the main factors behind the
failure of the United States is that they are taking the advice of regional
advisors who are following their own interests in Afghanistan.

American officials should consult Afghan leaders in the fight against terrorism.
They should also prevent the mistreatment and torture of prisoners. The Afghan
government has been repeatedly demanding a change in the behaviour of the US
forces. It frustrates the Afghan people and helps the terrorists to hire and
manipulate [disaffected people].

There are reports that people's houses are unofficially searched during military
operations. All of the abovementioned problems are rooted in the misconduct of
the government and the US forces in Afghanistan. They can rectify this by
consulting the Afghans.

Making use of the experience of the past years, the US and Afghan governments
should devise a well-thought-out antiterrorist programme. Instead of listening
to the advice of the regional Afghan rivals, the United States should rely on
Afghans' advice. And parallel to their military operations, they should address
other aspects of the combat against terrorism, namely, economic aspects and the
Afghan reconstruction. They should stop the mistreatment of civilians and the
disrespect of Islamic and national values.

Source: Cheragh, Kabul, in Dari 1 Feb 06

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            February 3, 2006, Friday

'REAL DANGER' OF MORE TERROR ATTACKS IN UK

BYLINE: BY DAVID BARRETT DAILY POST CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: Mersey Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 432 words


THERE is a "real and present danger" of new terror attacks, including suicide
bombings, on British soil, the Government's anti-terror watchdog warned
yesterday.

Lord Carlile of Berriew QC said the public must expect more bombings similar to
the July 7 atrocities, which claimed 52 innocent lives.

The Liberal Democrat peer was given full access to Home Office files, including
intelligence material from the security services, in his role as the independent
reviewer of counter-terrorism laws.

"The nature of the activities of which I have seen information is sufficiently
alarming for me to re-emphasise... the real and present danger of shocking
terrorism acts involving suicide bombers," he said. "Further suicide bombings in
the UK must be expected, and the targets are unpredictable."

Meanwhile, Home Secretary Charles Clarke announced that plans to draw up a
single counter-terrorism Act had been put back to next year in the wake of July
7.

Mr Clarke told the Commons that the current system of having anti-terror laws
split between different Acts was "confusing". He said he planned a draft Bill
consolidating anti-terror laws in the first half of 2007, followed by concrete
proposals for legislation ater that year. In his report, Lord arlile also
recommended major changes to the way the Government deals with terror suspects.

Those jailed ahead of lengthy deportation battles should be released on control
orders, he said.

The watchdog said he had "real concern" about the indefinite detention of nine
men on control orders, four of whom have since been granted bail, while the
Government attempts to reach "no torture" agreements with their home countries.

The Home Office should have secured the agreements, known as memoranda of
understanding, before locking up the men, who include radical Muslim preacher
Abu Qatada, he said.

Shadow home secretary David Davis said he welcomed the Home Secretary's
intention to rationalise the terrorist legislation.

"This is not just technical. Much of the anti-terrorist legislation was put
together in haste and has proved either unusable or unnecessary," he said.

"There is great scope for rationalising, including some pruning of the current
law."

Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Alistair Carmichael said Lord Carlile
was right to suggest detainees should be brought to trial rather than remaining
in "legal limbo".

"The holding of suspects under conditions amounting to indefinite house arrest
has no place in our justice system," he said.

Concern over nine men in custody

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lord Carlile

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2006 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            February 3, 2006, Friday
                                 Mersey Edition

'Real danger' of more terror attacks in UK

BYLINE: DAVID BARRETT Daily Post Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 420 words


THERE is a "real and present danger" of new terror attacks, including suicide
bombings, on British soil, the Government's anti-terror watchdog warned
yesterday.

Lord Carlile of Berriew QC said the public must expect more bombings similar to
the July 7 atrocities, which claimed 52 innocent lives.

The Liberal Democrat peer was given full access to Home Office files, including
intelligence material from the security services, in his role as the independent
reviewer of counter-terrorism laws.

"The nature of the activities of which I have seen information is sufficiently
alarming for me to re-emphasise... the real and present danger of shocking
terrorism acts involving suicide bombers," he said. "Further suicide bombings in
the UK must be expected, and the targets are unpredictable."

Meanwhile, Home Secretary Charles Clarke announced that plans to draw up a
single counter-terrorism Act had been put back to next year in the wake of July
7.

Mr Clarke told the Commons that the current system of having anti-terror laws
split between different Acts was "confusing". He said he planned a draft Bill
consolidating anti-terror laws in the first half of 2007, followed by concrete
proposals for legislation ater that year. In his report, Lord arlile also
recommended major changes to the way the Government deals with terror suspects.

Those jailed ahead of lengthy deportation battles should be released on control
orders, he said.

The watchdog said he had "real concern" about the indefinite detention of nine
men on control orders, four of whom have since been granted bail, while the
Government attempts to reach "no torture" agreements with their home countries.

The Home Office should have secured the agreements, known as memoranda of
understanding, before locking up the men, who include radical Muslim preacher
Abu Qatada, he said.

Shadow home secretary David Davis said he welcomed the Home Secretary's
intention to rationalise the terrorist legislation.

"This is not just technical. Much of the anti-terrorist legislation was put
together in haste and has proved either unusable or unnecessary," he said.

"There is great scope for rationalising, including some pruning of the current
law."

Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Alistair Carmichael said Lord Carlile
was right to suggest detainees should be brought to trial rather than remaining
in "legal limbo".

"The holding of suspects under conditions amounting to indefinite house arrest
has no place in our justice system," he said.

Concern over nine men in custody

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lord Carlile

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                February 3, 2006

Peer warns of real and present danger of further terror attacks

BYLINE: WILLIAM TINNING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 315 words


BRITAIN faces a "real and present" danger of terrorist attacks, including
suicide bombings, a government watchdog warned yesterday.

Lord Carlile of Berriew, QC, said the public must expect more bombings similar
to the July 7 atrocities last year in London, which killed 52 innocent people.

The Liberal Democrat peer, who has full access to Home Office files - including
intelligence material from the security services - in his role as the
independent reviewer of counter-terrorism laws, said: "The nature of the
activities of which I have seen information is sufficiently alarming for me to
re-emphasise . . . the real and present danger of shocking terrorism acts
involving suicide bombers.

"Further suicide bombings in the UK must be expected, and the targets are
unpredictable."

Asked about Lord Carlile's warning, Tony Blair's spokesman endorsed the thrust
of it, saying the prime minister believed "there remain serious threats to this
country".

He added: "The prime minister has never hidden his view that, yes, there are
serious threats against this country and we have to be vigilant in trying to
protect the public against those threats."

In his report, Lord Carlile also recommended major changes to the way the
government deals with terror suspects.

Those jailed ahead of lengthy deportation battles should be released on control
orders, he said.

Lord Carlile's findings came on the same day as Charles Clarke, the home
secretary, announced that plans to draw up a single counter-terrorism act had
been put back to next year in the wake of the July 7 bombings.

Mr Clarke told the Commons that the present system of having anti-terror laws
split between different acts was "confusing".

In America, John Negroponte, US national director of intelligence, told a senate
committee looking into the range of threats to the US that al Qaeda was still
plotting and preparing for attacks on America.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                February 4, 2006

PIGEON IN 'TERROR ATTACK'

SECTION: Scottish Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 122 words


PASSENGERS on a packed train thought they were being targeted by terrorists
after hearing an explosion - only to find that the blast was caused by a pigeon.

Terrified commuters started ringing loved ones to say they had been caught up in
a blast only to find out later that the explosion had been caused by a bird
flying into overhead power lines.

Passengers were left cowering in the busy train as it passed through Paisley,
Renfrewshire, on Tuesday.

Commuters travelling from Glasgow to Ayrshire were shocked as they heard a loud
bang and feared the train had been bombed.

But it later emerged that the explosion was caused by a pigeon, which had blown
itself up by flying into power cables above the track.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2006 Express Newspapers

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           February 4, 2006 Saturday

Letter - The NATO terror attack on Serbia

LENGTH: 184 words


I do indeed sympathise with George Zoritsa (M Star January 23) regarding the
murderous assault on his country by NATO.

This was an illegal assault on a sovereign country by Blair and his mad bomber
partner in international crime Bill Clinton.

NATO sided with the KLA, which was deemed a terrorist organisation by the UN, so
NATO is nothing more than a glorified terrorist organisation.

Serbian fighters saved thousands of our personnel in the last war against the
nazis and, yet, Blair and his stooges betrayed that nation. He should hang his
head in shame.

This was a particularly illegal and cowardly murderous assault, which broke all
international rules, resulting in the murder over 4,000 civilians and the
destruction of a sovereign country.

Blair and his Pentagon masters promised to rebuild that country, but they have
left it to fester. The man is an absolute liar who must be impeached and packed
off to The Hague.

Blair, Clinton and the rest of the Pentagon and Whitehall cowards should be held
to account for the murder and misery that they have brought to the people the
world over.

Lee J Cobb, Didcot.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 6, 2006 Monday

Majority of Danes fear cartoon-related terror attack

LENGTH: 365 words


Excerpt from report by Danish radio on 6 February

[Presenter] Seventy-nine per cent of the population fear that terrorist attacks
will strike Denmark as a result of the conflict caused by the Muhammad cartoons,
according to an opinion poll conducted by Epinion for DR Nyheder [Danish radio
news].

The Police Intelligence Service has been very reluctant to say whether the
terror threat to Denmark has changed following the burning of embassies in the
Middle East and a psychologist and emergency-planning expert are now urging the
police and the government to step forward.

[Reporter] As mentioned, a brand-new opinion poll conducted by Epinion for DR
Nyheder shows that eight out of 10 Danes fear terrorist attacks on Denmark as a
result of the conflict caused by the Muhammad cartoons.

[Molin] The fear is very indefinable because we are dealing with some groups
which we do not understand properly. I think most Danes have been very surprised
by what has happened and the unknown will cause the fear to grow significantly.

[Reporter] Says psychologist and emergency-planning expert Keld Molin of Kolding
Hospital. He is author of the book "Terrorangrebets psykologi" ["The Psychology
of a Terrorist Attack"].

Radioavisen [Danish radio news] has asked the Police Intelligence Service to
take part in an interview to explain to the population how rational their fears
are. The Police Intelligence Service has responded by sending us a press
release, which I will now read from.

"Recent events have obviously contributed to exposing Denmark. However, it is
difficult to say precisely what significance this exposure may have for the
threat level here in Denmark. We are of course monitoring the situation very
closely and this is happening in close cooperation with our partners in order to
counteract and prevent any actions intended to escalate the situation further",
the Police Intelligence Service press release states.

Radioavisen has also attempted to get a comment on the threat level from Justice
Minister Lene Espersen. However, she is on holiday, her secretary says, and
therefore cannot comment on the case. [passage omitted]

Source: Danmarks Radio P1, Copenhagen, in Danish 1100 gmt 6 Feb 06

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 6, 2006 Monday

Germany concerned about Islamist terror attacks

LENGTH: 533 words


Text of report by German news agency ddp on 6 February

Passau: Following the riots against European establishments in Islamist
countries in protest against the printing of Muhammad caricatures, the concern
about terrorist acts is growing in Germany. "We must also expect attacks here,"
said Konrad Freiberg, the head of the Police Union (GdP). Essen terror expert
Rolf Tophoven also warned: "We are in the terrorists' cross hairs." Meanwhile,
Union [Christian Democratic Union/Christian Social Union, CDU/CSU] deputy
parliamentary group leader Andreas Schockenhoff (CDU) advocated breaking off
diplomatic relations with any countries that openly organize riots.

Freiberg said some 100 Islamist "threatening people" are known in Germany but
they cannot be monitored due to lack of personnel. "If there is an attack one
day, all those affected will look and note: 'We know the perpetrators.'" The GdP
chairman criticized the fact that possibilities for prevention and
reconnaissance are being withheld from the police.

Attacks like those in London or Madrid could also happen in Germany.

Tophoven also warned of attacks in Germany. "It is not a question of whether,
but of when," he emphasized. "We are in the terrorists' crosshairs," the head of
the Essen Institute for Terrorism Research and Security Policy emphasized. The
presence of the [German] Federal Intelligence Service in Iraq during the war,
the cooperation with the Americans, the fury of the Muslims over Muhammad
caricatures: all these serve Islamists as justification for attacks, also in
Germany. "In the past, terrorists have been recruited here and smuggled into
Iraq," Tophoven said. "The great danger looms when these people with terror
know-how return from Iraq."

Union deputy parliamentary group leader Schockenhoff argues for breaking off
diplomatic relations with countries that publicly organize riots or do not
firmly defend diplomatic missions against rioters. "A country in which the
embassies are not protected says good-bye to international relations,"
Schockenhoff said, adding that such a country must be threatened with "the
suspension of diplomatic relations".

The state secretary in the Defence Ministry, Friedbert Pflueger (CDU), urged
greater diplomatic pressure on such countries. "In part, the leaderships there
have deliberately poured oil on the fire," he said, adding that the call to
these countries for de-escalation must "also be backed diplomatically". At the
same time Pflueger criticized the caricatures. "Like every freedom, freedoms of
opinion and the press also have their limit in the dignity of others, and I feel
that has been exceeded here."

The chairman of the Central Council of Muslims in Germany newly elected on
Sunday [5 February], Axel Koehler, called on his fellow believers to stop the
violence, calling it "un-Islamic". Koehler called the caricatures "blasphemous,
insulting and degrading" and noted that as a Muslim one must undoubtedly protest
against them. But it is shameful to let Muslims throughout the world be provoked
to violent riots, he said, adding that both sides must be more reasonable to
prevent a further escalation.

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 0456 gmt 6 Feb 06

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 9, 2006 Thursday

Israeli troops kill two "terrorists" attacking Gaza crossing - Israel radio

LENGTH: 223 words


Text of report by Israel radio on 9 February

Two terrorists were killed at the Erez crossing in the Gaza Strip after they
attacked a position overlooking the crossing with fragmentation grenades. IDF
[Israel Defence Forces] soldiers and security guards shot and killed the
assailants. There are no casualties among our forces.

The crossing was closed after approximately 4,500 Palestinian workers had
already passed through it this morning. It was reported from Gaza that one of
the terrorists belonged to the [Fatah-linked] Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades and the
second man belonged to the Popular Resistance Committees.

Shlomo Tzaban, the Defence Ministry official in charge of the Erez crossing,
told our correspondent Karmela Menashe that IDF troops spotted the terrorists
and the security guards at the site fired shots at them. The two terrorists were
killed in the gunbattle. The remnants of an explosive charge were found on the
body of one of them.

A border policewoman was lightly wounded north of Jerusalem when shots were
fired at her near the separation fence at Givon Hahadashah. The policewoman was
evacuated to Jerusalem's Hadassah-En Kerem Hospital. Our correspondent Ran
Binyamini reports that the police arrested a Palestinian for questioning and a
second man escaped.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 0600 gmt 9 Feb 06

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 9, 2006 Thursday

Afghan police say Kabul terror attack thwarted

LENGTH: 204 words


Text of report in English by Afghan independent Pajhwok news agency website

Logar city, 9 February: Police and security officials foiled a terrorist plot by
seizing two explosive-packed cars in central Logar Province the other day.

A senior provincial security official, Saleh Mohammad Mahsud, told Pajhwok
Afghan News on Thursday they had received secret information that some
miscreants had planned to carry out a terrorist attack in the central capital,
Kabul.

Acting on a tip-off, central and provincial security officials launched a joint
search operation in the provincial capital of Pol-e Alam. Two suspected cars
were located in the Qala Liyaz Khan area. On search, police recovered explosives
from the two vehicles, he said.

In a bid to elude the police, the miscreants had decorated the vehicles with
garlands and welcoming banners for Hajis, posing they were going to Kabul to
receive the pilgrims, informed the official.

He said about 8 kg of explosives were planted on the vehicle and the target was
the Idgah Mosque in Kabul. Two suspects, Nadir and Habibollah, had been arrested
by police, who were shifted to Kabul for further investigations.

Source: Pajhwok Afghan News website, Kabul, in English 0900 gmt 9 Feb 06

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           February 11, 2006 Saturday

World - Malaysians add detail to Bush terror attack claims

LENGTH: 191 words


A Malaysian who was recruited by al-Qaida to pilot an aeroplane in a second wave
of September 11-style attacks on the United States pulled out after observing
the carnage of the first assaults, south-east Asian officials said yesterday.

On Thursday, US President George W Bush outlined some of the details of an
alleged plot to hijack an aeroplane and fly it into a skyscraper in Los Angeles
and claimed that co-operation between Washington and several Asian countries had
helped to expose it.

The plan never appeared close to the stage where it could be put into execution.

And scores of arrests in the aftermath of the September 11 2001 attacks severely
curtailed the ability of al-Qaida and its south-east Asian affiliate, Jemaah
Islamiyah, to operate.

Adding details to Mr Bush's outline, security officials and terrorism experts in
south-east Asia said yesterday that Malaysian engineer Zaini Zakaria was among
three men that al-Qaida was training to take part in an attack on the US west
coast.

But Mr Zaini was never told what his mission would be and, when he saw media
coverage of the September 11 attacks, he severed his ties with the militants.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 12, 2006 Sunday

Kenyan police reportedly foil Egypt terror attack plot; arrest suspects

LENGTH: 505 words


Text of report by Dominic Wabala entitled "Kenya police foil terrorist attack
aimed at Cairo" published by Kenyan newspaper Sunday Nation on 12 February

Kenyan police have thwarted a terrorist attack targeting Egypt after arresting
members of an international terror gang.

The gang was planning to hit the capital city of Egypt, Cairo, on Friday [10
February] but their plans were thwarted when Kenyan detectives raided their
planning bases in the country and arrested five men.

The police raid was part of an international effort involving Kenyan, South
African and Egyptian police, as well as, the International Police Organization,
Interpol.

The terror suspects, most of them below 27 years, were arrested in Nairobi and
Wajir town [in northeastern Kenya] on Friday afternoon and yesterday following
intelligence gathered by detectives from the three countries.

Kenyan detectives arrested some of the suspects in the city while others were
apprehended in Wajir. It is believed that they were planning a terror attack in
Cairo to coincide with the Africa Cup of Nations [soccer] finals.

According to a source close to the investigations, detectives in Pretoria, South
Africa, tipped off their Kenyan and Egyptian counterparts who started monitoring
the groups in their respective countries.

The Kenyan suspects were in constant telephone communication with their Egyptian
and South African accomplices in planning the attack and were scheduled to
execute the mission minutes before they were arrested.

Police were monitoring telephone conversations made by the terrorists between
the three countries as they planned the attack before conducting simultaneous
operations to apprehend them.

But one of the ringleaders is believed to be still at large.

A police helicopter was yesterday morning dispatched to Wajir to fly one of the
suspects, a young man in his mid-20s, dressed in a maroon robe, to Nairobi. He
was driven to Wajir airstrip which is located in a military camp from where he
was flown to the city. The suspect was whisked away under tight security to the
CID headquarters where he was interrogated before being taken to an undisclosed
police station.

His accomplices, some arrested on Friday and others yesterday, are being held in
different police stations around the city and its environs as investigations
into their activities continue.

Kenyan police remained officially tight-lipped on the arrest of members of the
international terror gang.

The detectives are yet to establish whether those arrested are members of the
Al-Qa'idah network.

International anti-terrorist experts believe the network has cells and training
camps in neighbouring Somalia.

Police Commissioner Maj-Gen Hussein Ali is on record as having promised
relentless efforts by his officers to fight crime in all its manifestations,
including terrorism.

In December, Administration Police officers seized a rocket launcher and four
rocket propellers and arrested a suspected terrorist in Wajir's Biamadhow area.

Source: Sunday Nation, Nairobi, in English 12 Feb 06

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            February 12, 2006 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Holiday isle Britons in machete gang terror;
Golfers tell of terrifying attack and brave fightback at Caribbean paradise
villa

BYLINE: By Jo Macfarlane

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 416  words


WEALTHY British golfers last night told how they fought off machete-wielding
robbers at their paradise villa.

As night fell last Sunday evening, Mike Jones, 69, Chris Stokes, 67, and Stuart
Anderson, 70 and their wives enjoyed a cocktail by the pool overlooking the
seventh hole of the Mount Irvine golf course on the idyllic island of Tobago.

They were relaxing after a day playing in the Tobago International Pro Am Golf
Tournament alongside such stars as 47-year-old Scot Gordon Brand and Irishman DJ
Russell.

Holding a gleaming sharp blade to the throat of their security guard, a masked
gang of four burst into view and demanded the group hand over their valuables.

Ushering their petrified wives into the villa, the three men bravely confronted
the gang armed with golf club and chairs.

At one stage, despite their injuries and the determination of the gang, they
were able to slip into the villa and barricade themselves inside. So enraged
were the intruders they stepped up the assault and began hurling bricks at the
villa, while the tourists cowered, bleeding inside.

However, the raiders fled with nothing, and a week on the men are still enjoying
their holiday on the island.

Mr Jones, a retired golf course builder from Sussex, said: "I have visited
Tobago in the past six years to play golf and have always found that 99.5 per
cent of the people are quite friendly. However, we will find it difficult to
convince our wives to return because they are scared to do so.

"The incident has in no way changed my affection for the people of Tobago, but I
believe that for tourism to have a realistic future in the island the crime
situation must be dealt with."

Mr Stokes, 67, from Hampshire, a world authority on dental root canal work;

and Mr Anderson, 70, a retired secretary of the Kent County Cricket Club, were
determined that the incident would not spoil their holiday.

Mr Anderson said: "The government and the authorities need to take a grip of the
problem. Perhaps the police need outside help."

Four local men have been questioned in connection with the attack.

Later that same evening, an elderly British woman was brutally raped at
knifepoint a few miles away. The 80-yearold was surprised by an intruder who
also stole $200.

Police do not think the incidents are related.

Last night the Foreign Office issued an update to their advice to British people
thinking of travelling to Tobago.

They said violent crime was on the increase on the island and advised
holidaymakers to be extra vigilant.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GOLF PARADISE: Gordon Brand was playing in Tobago

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 13, 2006 Monday

Georgian official repeats claims of Russian involvement in "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 321 words


Text of report by Georgian news agency Kavkas-Press

Tbilisi, 13 February: Members of the Russian peacekeeping force deployed in the
Tskhinvali conflict zone have taken part in terrorist acts on Georgian territory
over the past two years, the head of the Interior Ministry's analytical
department, Shota Utiashvili, said at a joint meeting of the parliamentary
defence and security and foreign affairs committees today.

He spoke of specific incidents which Georgia's law-enforcement agencies have
linked to the Russian peacekeeping contingent in the Tskhinvali conflict zone.

He said that high-ranking Russian officials had taken part in, and frequently
organized, criminal acts in and around the conflict zone, which had damaged
Georgia's state interests and led to the deaths of local civilians.

The list of incidents included the terrorist attack outside Gori police station
in 2004 [as received, should be 2005], explosions on power lines and sabotage of
the oil pipeline.

He said that Georgia's law-enforcement agencies have comprehensive information
about the culprits and believe they are members of the Russian and Ossetian
contingents of the joint peacekeeping force in the conflict zone and that most
of them are employees of the Russian special services.

Utiashvili said that these forces were supplied with weapons, fuel and
provisions through the so-called North Ossetian battalion, which is also in the
conflict zone under the peacekeeping mandate but in reality has nothing to do
with North Ossetia.

"This battalion has undergone military training in Tskhinvali and is involved in
smuggling," Utiashvili said.

He said that the Russian special services, under the auspices of the
peacekeeping mandate, had turned the Tskhinvali region into an enclave of
smuggling and formed the basis of the de-facto Tskhinvali government, which
posed a serious threat to Georgia.

Source: Kavkas-Press, Tbilisi, in Georgian 1352 gmt 13 Feb 06

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 15, 2006 Wednesday

Jordan sentences nine militants to death for foiled terrorist attack in 2004

LENGTH: 98 words


Text of report by Jordanian news agency Petra-JNA website

Amman, 15 February: The State Security Court today handed down a death sentence
on nine defendants who were convicted in the case of the "Monotheism Brigades,"
which are affiliated with Al-Qa'idah Organization. The defendants were found
guilty of planning the terrorist attacks which were foiled in April 2004. Five
defendants were convicted in their presence while four others, including Ahmad
al-Khalayilah [also known as Abu-Mus'ab al-Zarqawi] were convicted in absentia.

Source: Petra-JNA website, Amman, in Arabic 1037 gmt 15 Feb 06

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          February 15, 2006, Wednesday

TESCO STORE ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: City Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 98 words


A ROBBER attacked a shopper at a 24-hour supermarket in Coventry at 3.30am
today.

It happened at Tesco Extra at Arena Park, Rowleys Green, Coventry.

Police said a man attacked a 22-year-old in the store after demanding money.

The victim suffered facial injuries in the assault, but managed to overpower his
attacker.

Staff also helped and police were called.

A 21-year-old man has been arrested and is being questioned by police.

Witnesses or anyone with any information is asked to contact the robbery team at
Stoney Stanton Road in Coventry on 0845 113 5000.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2006 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Cheshire

                           February 16, 2006 Thursday

MY LATE NIGHT ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Ian Probert

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 304 words

DATELINE: Winsford


POLICE are investigating after a Winsford taxi driver was hit over the head with
a brick during a robbery.

Taxi driver Ghulam Mustafa was attacked and had his takings stolen at 2.30am on
Saturday.

He said: "It was a terrifying experience and afterwards I couldn't speak because
I was trembling so much."

Ghulam, 35, of Launceston Close, picked up his attackers from the Liquid Lounge
and was told to drive them and their three friends home.

He said: "I dropped the others off and then was told to take the other two home
but they became very aggressive and abusive towards me.

"We stopped on School Road and then one of them got out, punched me and then
dragged me out of the car.

"They were both punching me and when I dropped the envelope containing all my
money for the night they took it.

"I tried to get it back off them but then one of them hit me over the head with
a brick and then they ran off.

"My head was pumping with blood and there is bruising all over my body."

Ghulam does not believe the attack was racially motivated.

He said: "They were extremely abusive but none of it was racial - this was
purely about the money.

"My family are now very worried about me going out to work but I am the bread
winner and I have to do it."

Arthur Warner, chairman of Winsford Travel Safe, is appalled by the attack.

He said: "It is absolutely disgusting that a man is attacked while he is out
trying to earn an honest living for his family.

"You don't wish this to happen to anybody but when it is someone that you know
and someone who is providing a service to the public it is appalling."

Det Sgt Dave Snasdell, from Winsford Neighbourhood Policing Unit, said: "We are
continuing to make inquiries and we have a couple of names we are following up."

Anyone with information should call the police serious investigation unit on
01244 613258.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Taxi driver Ghulam Mustafa was left trembling with fear after he was
the victim of a robbery in the early hours of Saturday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2006 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                           February 17, 2006, Friday
                                Business Edition

Go-Ahead's profits hit by terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 31

LENGTH: 242 words


HIGHER fuel bills and last July's bomb attacks in London were today blamed by
transport group Go-Ahead for an 11 per cent slide in first-half profits.

The group, which runs baggage handling services and car-parking at Edinburgh
Airport, said fuel costs in its bus division were GBP 4.7 million higher than in
the previous six months, while passenger numbers fell on its Southern and
Thameslink train franchises in the weeks after the July terrorist attacks.

Pre-tax profit before goodwill and exceptional items for the six months to the
end of December was GBP 43.6m, down from GBP 49.1m in the same period the year
before.

However, Go-Ahead, which runs trains, buses and airport services, said its
performance was expected to improve in the second-half of its current financial
year. Turnover during the first-half rose to GBP 675.9m from GBP 634.4m in 2004.

Go-Ahead expects to deliver full-year pre-tax profits in line with City
expectations close to GBP 100m. Chief executive Chris Moyes said he was
confident of meeting analysts' forecasts for earnings in the "high 90s".

He added: "They [analysts] are forecasting a better second-half than the first
which is slightly unusual for us but is the way the market has moved."

Mr Moyes said the firm planned to bid for three out of four UK rail franchises
in the next 12 months but there would be few opportunities for bus acquisitions.
The firm declared an interim dividend of 18 pence a share, up from 15p.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           February 18, 2006 Saturday

Britons 'fear flu more than bombs' Egypt welcomes record number of visitors
despite terror attacks. Charles Starmer-Smith reports

BYLINE: Charles Starmer-Smith

SECTION: TRAVEL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 557 words


Bird flu is more likely than bombs to deter British holidymakers from
travelling, it emerged this week.

Only six months after a series of terrorist attacks in Sharm el-Sheikh claimed
88 lives - more than the total number killed by bird flu to date - the Egyptian
Tourist Authority (ETA) reported that record numbers of British holidaymakers
are travelling to Egypt.

Nearly 838,000 Britons visited the country last year, a 53 per cent increase on
2004. Visitor numbers last month were up by almost 50 per cent on January last
year.

The authority predicts that the annual figure for tourists will have doubled by
2014, as new resorts open and existing facilities are upgraded.

Similarly, VisitBritain last week reported that a record 12.1 million visitors
spent more than pounds 375 million in the West End of London last year,
suggesting that people have little fear of a repeat of the bombings of July 7.
British holidaymakers were also quick to return to Madrid after the train
bombings that killed more than 190 people last March.

The British, having experienced IRA attacks at home, have not been easily scared
by the threat of terrorism in other countries. While the number of Americans
going abroad fell sharply following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001,
Britons continued to travel in sizeable numbers. Eighteen months ago, in the
annual Telegraph survey of readers' travelling habits, 94 per cent said that
terrorism had not changed their plans.

Britons have been slower to return to Bali, where terrorist attacks killed 20
people last October. But travel companies say the deterrent there is the threat
of bird flu. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has reported 19 deaths from the
infection in Indonesia to date. Although bird flu has been responsible for only
80 deaths worldwide, and there has been no change in the Foreign Office advice
on affected regions, fear of the virus is making people reluctant to visit Asia
and the Far East. South-East Asia had only recently recovered from a downturn in
travel after outbreaks of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars) in 2003 and
2004.

Guerba, the adventure tour operator, says that, despite repeated assurances from
the World Travel and Tourism Council that bird flu does not pose a risk,
holidaymakers are spurning Thailand and China in favour of trips to Latin
America and Africa.

Cheapflights.co.uk, the flight comparison website, reported this week that bird
flu fears have brought a slump in the number of Bangkok searches. In January,
the Thai capital, a perennial favourite, slipped from sixth to 14th in the list
of popular search inquiries.

Last year, British tourism in Turkey was up by more than 50 per cent over the
figures for 2004. Anatolian Sky, a specialist in Turkish holidays, said that
bookings have fallen since the deaths from bird flu of four children were
confirmed in the town of Dogubeyazit in the east, but added that fears about the
virus have been exaggerated.

"There is currently some panic, with things being taken out of proportion. The
distance to the resorts [from the affected area] is the same as from London to
Vienna,'' a spokesman said. "Our booking figures were down in January, but we
are confident that they will recover in February.''

Cases of the fatal H5N1 bird flu strain were confirmed this week in Germany,
Austria, Italy and Nigeria.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                           February 18, 2006 Saturday
                                   Edition 1

Terrorist attacks hit travel profits

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 139 words


Higher fuel bills and the terrorist attacks in London have been blamed by
transport group Go Ahead for a drop in profits during the second half of last
year.

The Newcastle-based firm said it had seen a 13% drop in profits in the second
half of 2005, while fuel costs in its bus division were £4.7m higher than in the
previous six months.

Passenger numbers also fell on its Southern and Thameslink train franchises in
the weeks after the July terrorist attacks.

Interim pre-tax profits were £43.6m for the half year, down 12.6%, on turnover
which rose 6.5% to £675.9m.

Despite the decline, Go Ahead said it expected an improved performance in the
second half of the financial year.

But Chairman Sir Patrick Brown also praised the efforts of staff during a
difficult time. He said: "Our London based bus and rail staff responded
magnificently."

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           February 20, 2006, Monday
                                 First Edition

Why won't the Iraqis probe my son's death?;
Mersey soldier Marc Taylor died in a suspected terrorist grenade attack. Now his
mother asks...

BYLINE: HOMA KHALEELI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 292 words


THE mother of a soldier killed in Iraq has hit out at the country's police for
refusing to carry out an investigation into his death.

A British coroner ruled last week that Corporal Marc Taylor, 27, had been
unlawfully killed when a grenade hit the Landrover he was travelling in in
September 2004.

Today his mother Linda Roach said she was angry there would be no investigation
into his death.

She said: "Marc enjoyed his job and felt he should be out there, but it's wrong
they won't investigate.

"It's supposed to be war, but they want our soldiers investigated so it should
work both ways.

"He was murdered. "At the end of the day they will never find the people who did
this."

Mr Taylor, from Ellesmere Port, died after a civilian fired the grenade as he
was escorting workers in a Landrover.

But at the inquest in Oxford, almost 18 months later, the family was told there
would be no inquiry into the deaths by Iraqi police.

Mrs Roach said her son was training Iraqi police in peace-keeping when he was
killed.

The family were still struggling to come to terms with the death, and their
grief was made worse by the deaths of other soldiers.

She said: "We can't grieve properly because it is brought up again and again.

"Everytime someone's killed it brings it back to you."

She said the family were devastated that Mr Taylor never got to see his son,
born seven months after he was killed.

Mrs Roach did not attend the inquest because she could not bear to hear any more
about the injuries her son sustained before he died.

She said her only comfort was being told he would not have suffered and would
have been unconscious as soon as the car was hit.

Mr Taylor was still breathing when he was found but the former Whitby high
school pupil could not be resuscitated.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WEDDING DAY: Marc Taylor with his wife Olivia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                               February 20, 2006

Hoodie attack terror of pizza delivery woman

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 350 words


A WOMAN pizza delivery worker was battered with a baseball bat in a shocking
attack as she took an order to a Rotherham suburb.




The 21-year-old was delivering food in the Holmes area, near the town centre,
when she was approached by a hooded Asian man.


He demanded the food before cracking her on the head with the baseball bat and
making off with the pizza delivery bag in the direction of Holmes Lane.


Three other hooded thugs also hit the victim as they ran past her in the same
direction following the attack in a gennel at the rear of Holmes Lane.


The victim, from Rotherham, did not need hospital treatment after the terrifying
attack but has since been suffering headaches and back pain.


Detectives have been shocked by the assault and are appealing for a fifth Asian
man to come forward who it appears acted as a good Samaritan.


He told the stunned pizza delivery woman he would try to get the food back off
the men but he was never seen again.


A police spokeswoman said: "The female delivery driver was on foot at the time
of the attack delivering food when she was approached by a young Asian.


"He was carrying a baseball bat and said 'give me the food' before hitting her
on the head with the bat.


"He then ran off with the pizza delivery bag in the direction of Holmes Lane.


"Three other Asian men then appeared dressed in dark clothing and with hoods up
over their heads and the bottom part of their faces covered.


"They also struck the victim on the head as they ran past and turned right as
they reached Holmes Lane.


"This was obviously a very distressing incident and there is no excuse for this
mindless violence. We want to catch these people as soon as possible."


The baseball bat thug was about 5ft 9ins tall, of medium build, with dark eyes
and his face covered by a scarf pulled up and a hood over his head.


Police also want to trace the 'good Samaritan', also dressed in dark clothes,
who asked if they had just taken her food and said he would retrieve it.


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           February 21, 2006, Tuesday
                                 Mersey Edition

Terrorist attacks affect zoo visits

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 241 words


THE number of people visiting Chester Zoo dropped 6.2% following the London
terrorist attacks in July, figures show.

The attraction was among the 20 worst affected by the attacks, according to a
report by tourism group Alva (Association of Leading Visitor Attractions).

London's National Gallery was the most severely hit, with 15.2% fewer visitors
in 2005 than 2004, and both the Tate Modern and the London Eye welcomed 12%
fewer tourists.

The Tower of London (down 9.7%), the Science Museum (down 7%) and the British
Museum (down 6.8%) also had fewer visitors last year.

Chester Zoo welcomed 1,089,257 people in 2005, 6.2% down on the previous year.

But the Tate Britain (up 58%) and Kew Gardens (up 25.6%) enjoyed a good 2005,
while Portsmouth Historic Dockyard -home to Nelson's flagship Victory -welcomed
22.4% more visitors last year than in 2004 on the back of celebrations of the
200th anniversary of the Battle of Trafalgar.

As usual, the top attraction was Blackpool Pleasure Beach, although numbers fell
3.3% to 5.970 million.

The figures relate to attractions which are members of Alva, but do not include
all Alva members as some, such as Alton Towers and Madame Tussauds, choose not
to divulge annual statistics.

Alva director Robin Broke said: "The London bombings on July 7 and the failed
attempts on July 21 had a considerable impact in central London. However, some
sites outside central London benefited from additional displaced visitors.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 21, 2006 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

US opposition to ports deal based on fear of terror attacks

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 336 words


First America's politicians drove off a Chinese company that tried to buy a US
oil group, Unocal. Now both Republicans and Democrats have created a furore
intended to stop Dubai Ports World getting its hands on ports assets in the US
that come with its pounds 3.9bn purchase of P&O.

The problem? Americans are nervous that an Arab company's takeover of operations
at six major American ports, including New York, could lead to young Arab men
working there. And, they argue, it was young Arab men who were the 9/11
hijackers, including two from the United Arab Emirates.

DP World has already received US regulatory approval, which was a condition of
its acquisi acquisition of P&O. But US politicians seem to think they can
reverse it. If so, that could mean that the US business is left out of the
acquisition or it could even lead to the collapse of the deal.

Congressman Peter King, a New York Republican and chairman of the House Homeland
Security Committee, said: "I'm aware of the conditions [of the deal's clearance]
and they relate entirely to how the company carries out its procedures, but it
doesn't go to who they hire, or how they hire people. They don't address the
underlying conditions, which is how are they going to guard against things like
infiltration by al-Qa'ida or someone else, how are they going to guard against
corruption?"

Senator Lindsay Graham, a South Carolina Republican, said: "It's unbelievably
tone deaf politically at this point in our history. Most Americans are
scratching their heads, wondering why this company from this region now?"

Senator Barbara Boxer said: "It is ridiculous to say you're taking secret steps
to make sure that it's OK for a nation that had ties to 9/11, (to) take over
part of our port operations in many of our largest ports. This has to stop."

Senator Hillary Clinton of New York and her Democratic colleague Robert Mendez
of New Jersey have introduced legislation to prohibit companies owned or
controlled by foreign governments from buying US ports operations.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          February 22, 2006 Wednesday

Egyptian foreign minister condemns "terrorist" attack on Iraqi shrine

LENGTH: 162 words


Text of report by Egyptian news agency MENA website

Cairo, 22 February: Foreign Minister Ahmad Abu-al-Ghayt has condemned the
terrorist operation that took place this morning in Iraq and targeted the Imam
Ali al-Hadi Shrine in Samarra.

In a press release, the foreign minister condemned such operations that served
neither Iraq nor its people to enjoy security and stability, noting that they
were at odds with all beliefs and divine religions.

Abu-al-Ghayt stressed solidarity with all components of the Iraqi people,
indicating that this action aimed to undermine the unity of the Iraqi people
that stood steadfast before attempts to creating division and disagreement.

The foreign minister showed confidence in the Iraqi people's adherence to its
national unity and determination to pursue working for building a new Iraq that
did not discriminate between its sons and that rejected fanaticism and
terrorism.

Source: MENA news agency website, Cairo, in Arabic 1704 gmt 22 Feb 06

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 23, 2006 Thursday

"Terrorist" attacks prevented in Chechnya - pro-Moscow minister

LENGTH: 116 words


Text of report by Russian Channel One TV on 23 February

Several terrorist attacks which militants planned for today [Russia's national
Defenders of the Fatherland Day and anniversary of deportation of Chechen and
Ingush peoples in 1944] have been averted in Chechnya, Chechen Interior Minister
Ruslan Alkhanov said.

The day before [22 February] a large cache of ammunition was found in the
basement of a residential house in Groznyy's Leninskiy District.

Apart from that policemen confiscated 11 home-made explosive devices each equal
to 10 kg of TNT. All the devices were stuffed with metal parts and nails.

[Video shows a map of Groznyy]

Source: Channel One TV, Moscow, in Russian 0700 gmt 23 Feb 06

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 23, 2006 Thursday

No threat of terrorist attacks in Poland, minister tells commission

LENGTH: 142 words


Text of report in English by Polish news agency PAP

Warsaw, 23 February: At present, Poland is not threatened with terrorist
attacks, but the special services are ready to find out about them and to react
to them, head of the special services and Minister-Coordinator of the Special
Services Zbigniew Wasserman told the Sejm Special Services Commission on
Thursday [23 February].

Member of the commission Jerzy Szmajdzinski of the Democratic Left Alliance
(SLD) said that "the services reported about their reconnaissance actions."

Commission head Roman Giertych (leader of the League of Polish Families - LPR)
did not want to elaborate on the discussion.

Prior to the meeting he said that the report on terrorist attack threat is
connected with the anniversary of the 11 March attack in Madrid.

Source: PAP news agency, Warsaw, in English 1645 gmt 23 Feb 06

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           February 24, 2006, Friday

DRIVER STALKED ME;
GIRL TELLS OF TERROR OVER SEX-ATTACK RAILMAN

BYLINE: By Karen Bale

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 276 words


THE teenager invited into a train cab by a sex-attack driver last night revealed
she was left terrified when he tracked her down a week later.

Convicted sex offender Lindsay McLean contacted the 19-year-old at her work in
Airdrie, Lanarkshire.

In a chilling phone call, he said: "I'm creeping you out, amn't I."

The teenager told yesterday how she was invited into driver McLean's cab while
waiting at a dark and deserted Coatbridge train station, in Lanarkshire, with
her pal late one night last December.

McLean only knew the girl's first name and that she worked for an Airdrie estate
agent.

The girl's mum was furious that he since contacted her daughter and reported him
to the police.

The teenager and her pal have now been interviewed three times by First ScotRail
bosses as part of an investigation into the incident.

McLean, 41, faces the sack.

The teenage said: "It really scared me when he phoned me at work. It was creepy
how he tracked me down.

"The phone call only lasted about 30 seconds because I was a bit scared and
pretending not to know who he was.

"He eventually said, 'I realise I'm creeping you out so I'll let you go'.

"At first, I felt a bit sorry for him and thought he was just a bit weird.

"But I was frightened after reading in the Record about his criminal past. I
would be petrified if I was on a train alone with him."

We told on Monday how McLean is being investigated after inviting the women into
his cab.

The Record also revealed McLean had been a convicted sex attacker who was jailed
for the attempted rape of a 29-year-old mum in Bellshill, Lanarkshire.

He was jailed for three months in May 1983.

McLean has been suspended by ScotRail.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RECORD: Story on Monday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            February 24, 2006 Friday
                                 1 Star Edition

COPS FOIL 3 TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 120 words


THREE major terror attacks in London have been foiled since the July 7 bombings,
police chiefs said yesterday.

They considered using controversial shoot-to-kill tactics on suspects but in the
end these were not considered "appropriate".

Assistant Met Commissioner Steve House said he was leading a review to ensure
"tactics and equipment are the best possible".

A report said the Met was looking at ways other than shoot-to-kill to
immediately incapacitate suspected bombers.

It also revealed calls to the police reporting "bombers" fell from 292 in August
to 19 in January.

The family of Brazilian Jean Charles de Menezes, shot in July as a suspected
bomber, yesterday called for his inquest to be before a High Court judge.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS


               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                            February 24, 2006 Friday

Three London terror attacks foiled, Met says

BYLINE: Martina Smit

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 400 words

DATELINE: This Is Local London


THREE major terror attacks on London have been foiled since the July 7 bombings,
a Met police chief has said.

Each time officers considered using the shoot-to-kill policy, but decided
against it, the Metropolitan Police Authority (MPA) was told on Thursday.

Operation Kratos, the codename of the instructions to shoot suspected suicide
bombers in the head, led to the death of innocent Brazilian Jean Charles de
Menezes at Stockwell Tube station on July 22.

'Not appropriate'

"MPA members will be well aware that the Met police have interdicted three
terrorist attacks in the capital since last summer," Assistant Commissioner
Steve House said.

"In each of the operations the Gold Command considered whether Operation Kratos
tactics would be deployed.

"It was decided they were not appropriate to the particular style of operation
that was being run."

Police chiefs gave a report on the Kratos policy to the MPA, the body that
oversees the Met.

The document confirms that the shoot-to-kill policy is still in place: "The
present advice is that there is no known alternative to firearms that will
produce immediate incapacitation." However, the Met is "reviewing less lethal
options".

'Suicide bomb' alerts plummet

According to the report, calls from people who thought they spotted a suicide
bomber in London have plummeted since straight after the July attacks.

During the first two weeks Scotland fielded 763 calls. The suicide bomb response
team was sent out 12 times and safely resolved all but one of the incidents -
the De Menezes case.

In August the number of alerts dropped to 292, the report says. Then it
continued to fall: 56 in September, 47 in October and 32 in November. Since
December there have been less than 20 calls a month.

Alerts tend to be low overnight, rising over the morning rush hour to peak at
noon.

Just one 'Islamic' suspect

In the past month the Met started monitoring the ethnicity of suicide bomb
suspects, as described by the callers. Out of 21 calls just one suspect was
described as "Islamic" and two as "Arab".

Seven seemed to be "Asian", four "dark European", three "white European" and two
"African Caribbean".

Police will receive further training not to stereotype potential suicide
bombers, the document adds. "It is acknowledged that, while there is no profile
of a suicide bomber, certain groups feel vulnerable to stereotyping by the
public and the police."

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2006 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 25, 2006 Saturday

US envoy to Saudi Arabia praises Saudi success in foiling "terror attack"

LENGTH: 126 words


Text of report in English by Saudi news agency SPA website

Riyadh, 25 February: US ambassador to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia James
Oberwetter has lauded the success of the Saudi security forces in foiling the
terror attack launched on Buqayq oil facility yesterday.

In a press statement, the ambassador said the Saudi government and the Saudi
ARAMCO company deserve to be lauded for the efforts they exerted in the recent
years to enhance security measures at the oil facilities throughout the kingdom.

"I know from proximity the strong security measures taken there. These systems,
when it was necessary, effectively functioned and successfully protected the oil
facility in Buqayq", he added.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 1243 gmt 25 Feb 06

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           February 25, 2006 Saturday

Iran press: Muslims must react wisely to terrorist attack on Shi'i shrine

LENGTH: 649 words


Text of editorial by Ali Qasemi, entitled: "Terrorism's wickedness and Muslims'
wisdom" published by Iranian newspaper Resalat website on 25 February

The terrorist's wickedness and the ominous triangle of the occupiers, the
Wahhabids and the remains of Ba'th Party disrespecting the holy shrine of Imam
Hadi and Imam Asgari (peace be upon them) have created a wave of hatred and
anger among the Muslims of the world and especially the Shi'i world.

During the last few days, by holding extensive demonstrations and declaring
their disgust from terrorism and the followers of Yazid [son of Moaviyyah, the
Ommiad caliph, by whose order Imam Hoseyn, son of Ali, was martyred (proverbial
for his cruelty and wickedness)] of the time, the people of most of the Islamic
and Arab countries - especially Iran, Lebanon, Pakistan and ... [ellipses as
published throughout the text] - demonstrated a wave of anger and hatred against
those committing this horrendous crime against the Islamic beliefs and sacred
things and the religious beliefs of Muslims. And by announcing seven days of
mourning, a number of Islamic governments, such as Iraq, Iran and Pakistan,
showed the depth of their grief and sorrow from this terrorist and horrible
incident to the global community and asked the Muslims of the world to keep and
strengthen their unity against the ominous conspiracies and plots of the
occupiers and terrorism.

The terrorist attack on al-Askari (peace be upon them) shrine in Samarra has
been carried out with very dangerous and evil goals. The coverage of biased news
and exaggeration of the murder of a number of Sunni people that was extensively
broadcast by a number of Arabic satellite news networks with the cooperation of
some Western news agencies suggest the depth of the danger of the goals of those
who carried out the terrorist attacks in Samarra.

A part of these goals can be listed as follows:

- Intriguing the Shi'is and creating a civil and religious war in Iraq;

- Putting the model of creating division among different faiths into practice
and spreading it throughout the Middle East;

- Spreading the gap between different faiths, and creating violence and
sectarian tensions;

- Declaring that the Shi'i government is weak and ineffective in providing
security for Sunni mosques;

- Spreading rumours about the start of an organized movement by Shi'is to kill
Sunnis in Iraq;

- Delaying the establishment of Iraq's popular government and reducing the
authority of the United Iraqi Alliance;

- Intensification of the security crisis in Iraq and creation of a safe place
for the occupying forces;

- Deviation of the public opinion from the necessity of the occupiers'
withdrawal from Iraq;

- Imposing figures, who are not legitimate and accepted, on al-Ja'fari's
government;

- Pushing Iraq towards instability and insecurity;

- Strengthening the guided procedure of disrespecting the values, beliefs and
sacred things of the Muslims of the world;

- Intriguing Muslims and making efforts to create the clash between religions;

However, wisdom is needed to confront these ominous goals. In fact, the
disrespect to the shrine of the holy Imams in Samarra has to be answered in a
wise and at the same time efficient way:

- Keeping and strengthening the national unity and also cooperation between the
Sunni and Shi'i religious authorities in Iraq;

- Increasing the security factor of the religious buildings and removing the
protection of these buildings from the hands of the occupiers;

- Revealing the ominous intentions of the occupiers from uniting with terrorists
in Iraq;

- Making serious efforts to establish an effective cabinet and organizing the
status of security in Iraq;

- Strengthening the procedure of democracy in Iraq;

- Putting pressure on the public opinion and stressing the necessity of the
occupiers' withdrawal from Iraq;

- And ...

Source: Resalat website, Tehran, in Persian 25 Feb 06, p 1&22

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           February 25, 2006 Saturday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Bombers attack Saudi oil plant;
TERROR: Guards open fire to foil Al Qaida suicide mission

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 257 words


SUICIDE bombers who targeted the world's largest oil processing centre were
thwarted by guards who fired on their cars, exploding both vehicles and killing
the attackers.

Al Qaida purportedly claimed responsibility for yesterday's attack at Abqaiq,
the first on an oil plant in Saudi Arabia.

The assault raised speculation that the militants were adopting the tactics of
rebels across the border in Iraq, where the oil industry has been repeatedly
targeted.

Al Qaida said two of its militants carried out the suicide attack.

The claim was posted on a website frequently used by terror groups but there was
no way to check its authenticity.

Saudi oil minister Ali Naimi quickly announced that the attack "did not affect
operations".

The huge processing plant near the Persian Gulf prepares about two-thirds of the
country's oil output for export, making it a crucial link in getting Saudi crude
to the market.

TWO British workers were reportedly injured after rockets exploded in the
British Embassy's Green Zone compound in Baghdad last night.

The rocket attack, which happened last night, caused minor injuries, the US
military said.

Two rockets were also fired in a village south east of Baghdad that included a
tomb revered by Shiites. There was no damage to the tomb, officials said.

Meanwhile the Iraqi government has put Baghdad under a curfew for the second
day, after yesterday's unprecedented street ban and appeals from religious
leaders curbed the bloodshed that had claimed more than 140 lives across Iraq,
after the bombing of a Shiite shrine.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 26, 2006 Sunday

Israeli defence minister says "terrorist organizations" planning attacks

LENGTH: 94 words


Excerpt from report by Israel radio on 26 February

Speaking at today's cabinet session, Defence Minister Shaul Mufaz said he has
instructed the IDF [Israel Defence Forces] to step up its offensive activities
against the terrorist organizations. He noted that the targeted killings of
people defined as ticking bombs would continue.

Mufaz said that the terrorist organizations are currently trying to carry out
terrorist attacks in order to influence the results of the Israeli elections.
[Passage omitted]

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1200 gmt 26 Feb 06

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            February 27, 2006 Monday

Egypt, Bahrain condemn terrorism, attack on Iraqi shrine - joint statement

LENGTH: 1067 words


Text of report by Egyptian news agency MENA website

Manama, 27 February: Egypt and Bahrain reiterated today Monday [27 February] the
need for serious and efficient work in order to reach a just and comprehensive
peace in accordance with the Arab peace initiative, the relevant resolutions of
international legality and the road map. This statement was contained in the
joint final communique which was issued today at the end of President Husni
Mubarak's visit to the Kingdom of Bahrain within his current tour to the Arab
Gulf states.

The two sides stressed the need for the establishment of an Iraqi government
with a wide platform which encompasses the various factions of the Iraqi people,
considering that this is necessary to guarantee the unity, security, stability
and sovereignty of Iraq.

The two sides condemned the recent attack on the holy shrines. They called on
all sides to respect all the holy and religious sites in Iraq.

The two sides expressed the hope that Lebanese-Syrian relations will overcome
the phase of tension and called for overcoming the differences and the return of
those ties to their previous state in a way which serves the interests of the
two fraternal countries. They called also for protecting Lebanon's unity and
independence and urged all parties concerned to abide by the relevant UN
Security Council's resolutions.

The two sides expressed their great fears and anxiety regarding the dangers of
the proliferation of nuclear weapons in the region. They stressed the need to
make the Middle East region a zone free from weapons of mass destruction and
nuclear weapons.

The two sides expressed their condemnation of the phenomenon of terrorism with
all its forms and regardless of its source. They reiterated their firm stance
which consists in rejecting this dangerous phenomenon and eliminating it. They
also renewed their full readiness to cooperate in this field.

The two sides expressed their complete satisfaction with the development
witnessed by their relations and stressed their eagerness to continue to work
for promoting them to the level which achieves the common interests of their two
fraternal peoples.

The following is the text of the joint statement issued following the visit of
President Mubarak to the Kingdom of Bahrain:

Within the framework of the distinguished relations between the Kingdom of
Bahrain and the brotherly Arab Republic of Egypt, His Excellency President
Muhammad Husni Mubarak, president of the Arab Republic of Egypt, has paid an
official visit to the Kingdom. On 27 Muharram 1427, corresponding to 26 February
2006, in an atmosphere of friendliness and fraternity that marks the nature of
the historical relations and common destiny between the two brotherly countries,
the leaders of the two countries held an official talks session that covered the
development of the coordination and cooperation fields, in addition to a number
of issues of common interest.

The two brotherly countries expressed their complete satisfaction with the
development of their relations. They underlined their keenness to continue work
to promote their relations to a level that achieves the common interests of the
two brotherly peoples.

The two sides also discussed the regional situation and the importance of
boosting security and stability in this vital region of the world. They
expressed their common conviction that the achievement of this stability and
development in the Middle East boosts international peace and security.

In this regard, the two sides reviewed the peace process in the Middle East and
stressed again the necessity of serious and effective work to reach fair and
comprehensive peace according to the Arab peace initiative, the relevant
international legitimacy resolutions and the road map.

The two sides noted the address of His Excellency Mahmud Abbas, the Palestinian
president, at the opening session of the Palestinian Legislative Council 18
February 2006, as a confirmation of the commitment to the peace process with all
its requirements.

The two sides reviewed with great interest the developments of the situation in
Iraq. They highlighted the necessity of forming a government with a wide basis
that represents the various categories of the Iraqi people on the basis that
this is necessary for ensuring the unity, security, stability and sovereignty of
Iraq.

The two sides denounced the recent attack on the holy places and called on all
parties to respect all holy and religious places in Iraq, wishing security,
stability, welfare and development for the Iraqi people.

Egypt and Bahrain expressed hope that Syrian-Lebanese relations will overcome
the phase of tension. They also called for the overcoming of differences and the
return of Syrian-Lebanese relations to its earlier state because it is in the
best interest of the two countries and their brotherly people.

They added that this [overcoming of differences] will also preserve Lebanon's
unity and independence and will commit all concerned parties to the related
international resolutions of the [UN] Security Council.

The two sides also discussed the threat of the spread of nuclear weapons in the
region, expressing extreme fears and worries about the spread of such weapons.
They stressed the importance of making the Middle East a region free from
weapons of mass destruction and nuclear weapons.

Both sides also expressed their condemnation of all forms and kinds of the
terrorism phenomenon, regardless of its source. They reiterated their firm
position that rejects this dangerous phenomenon and the necessity to face and
eliminate it, expressing their readiness for full cooperation in this regard.

They also stressed their countries' support for all regional and international
efforts aiming at fighting terrorism. In this regard, both sides expressed their
condemnation of the terrorist attack against some oil installations in the city
of Buqayq in sisterly Saudi Arabia.

His Excellency President Husni Mubarak, president of the sisterly Republic of
Egypt, expressed his deep thanks and appreciation for the great welcome and
hospitality that were extended to him and his accompanying delegation during his
visit to the Bahraini kingdom. His excellency also invited his brother, His
Majesty King Hamad Bin-Isa Al Khalifah of Bahrain, to visit his second home, the
Arab Republic of Egypt.

Source: MENA news agency website, Cairo, in Arabic 0951 gmt 27 Feb 06

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                      March 1, 2006 Wednesday 2:04 PM GMT

London 'midway' between terrorist attacks - mayor

LENGTH: 359 words


LONDON (AFX) - London Mayor Ken Livingstone warned that the British capital is
likely to face further Al-Qaeda-inspired bombings like those that killed 52
innocent commuters on July 7 last year.

'(July 7) is not an absolute exception. It is a bit bigger than attacks we have
had in the past, but we could easily have something on this scale again,' he
told a committee assessing the emergency services' response to the attacks.

'We know there have been attempts since July. This is not something we have got
through and is over and behind us. We are midway between that attack and the
next one.'

The July 7 attacks came at the height of rush hour when four suspected Islamist
extremist suicide bombers -- all either born or naturalised British citizens --
detonated explosives on three London Underground trains and a bus. More than 700
people were also injured.

Livingstone's assessment shows a change of opinion since March last year when he
predicted in a BBC television interview that there was a greater risk of people
in Britain dying from bird flu than a terrorist attack.

But he maintained his view to the committee that the threat could come from
similar small groups of disaffected young men.

'I think it is wrong to use the word 'if',' he told the hearing at his Greater
London Authority's City Hall base.

'This is the world which I suspect we will live in for the rest of our lives.
Our job is to make it as difficult (for the terrorists) as possible.'

The mayor praised the police and emergency services for their response to July 7
and said they would be even better prepared to deal with any repeat.

'We will be able to handle the next wave of attacks better than this,' he said.
'We were stretched to the limit on this. I suspect the terrorists planning their
next attacks will aim to have more incidents.'

newsdesk@afxnews.com

afp/har

COPYRIGHT


Copyright AFX News Limited 2005. All rights reserved.

The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News Content,inculding by
framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written
consent of AFX News.

AFX News and AFX Financial News Logo are registered trademarks of AFX News
Limited


LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2006 AFX News Limited

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            March 1, 2006, Wednesday
                                 Worcs Edition

Woman is attacked in field terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 147 words


A WOMAN was forced to scramble under a fence in a bid to escape a terrifying
attack.

The 40-year-old victim was seeing to her horse in a field off Truro Drive, in
Habberley, near Kidderminster, on Sunday evening when a man appeared out of the
darkness and made a grab for her.

PC Catherine Greig of Kidderminster police said: "There was a struggle in which
the victim may have scratched the man's face before she managed to pull free and
run to a nearby house for help.

"The victim was not injured, apart from the cut to her face, but she was very
shaken."

The man was white, 5ft 9ins tall and wearing dark coloured tracksuit bottoms
made of a shiny material, a dark top and white trainers. His face was partially
covered with a scarf or balaclava.

Anyone with information about the incident, which happened about 8pm, should
call police on 08457 444888 or Crime stoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                            March 1, 2006, Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Rise in racist incidents after terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 183 words


RACIST incidents in Edinburgh rose by a fifth during an eight month period,
according to new police figures.

The number of racist incidents in the city climbed to 662 between April 1 and
December 31 last year. This compares with 550 incidents during the same period
in the previous year.

But a surge in racist crimes following the London terrorist bombings contributed
to the overall rise.

Racist incidents in the two months after the suicide bombings doubled with a
total of 169 racist incidents reported to police during July and August compared
with 85 for the preceding two months. This was despite police increasing
measures to protect Edinburgh's ethnic minorities after fears of a backlash
following the July 7 atrocities.

Lothian and Borders Police said that they had recorded a small increase in
solving race crimes - a 59 per cent clear-up compared with 57.1 per cent for the
same period in 2004.

Of the 662 incidents, 93.5 per cent were verbal attacks, while 17 were made
through leaflets or pamphlets, six were telephone threats. Another 17 involved
objects being thrown at the victim's home.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 2, 2006 Thursday

Pakistan government condemns Karachi terror attack

LENGTH: 274 words


Text of report by Associated Press of Pakistan (APP) news agency

Islamabad, 2 March: The government Thursday [2 March] strongly condemned the
terrorist attack in Karachi that claimed several innocent lives and vowed to
bring those responsible for the outrageous act to justice.

"The government strongly condemns the horrific terrorist attack in Karachi in
which several innocent lives have been lost and many injured," foreign office
spokesperson Tasnim Aslam said in a statement here.

"It is with deep sadness we have learnt that one American officer and one
Pakistani employee of the US Consulate General in Karachi also lost their
lives," she added.

The spokesperson extended heartfelt sympathies and condolences to the bereaved
families and expressed complete solidarity with the victims. She also offered
profound sorrow and condolences to the government and people of the United
States over their loss.

The spokesperson said Pakistan rejects terrorism in all its forms and it has
been a victim of terrorism and suffering from this scourge for a long time. She
said the dastardly act "illustrates the intentions of those who seek to harm our
country and our ties with friendly nations". The spokesperson expressed strong
resolve of the government to defeat their evil designs.

"The incident is being investigated. We will find those responsible for this
outrageous attack and bring them to justice," she added.

"This senseless act today further fortifies our resolve to fight terrorism. We
all must work together to eliminate this terrible menace," she added.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1137 gmt
2 Mar 06

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Western Mail

                            March 2, 2006, Thursday
                                 First Edition

Pakistan attacks terrorist camp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 328 words


Two 14-year-old boys escaped with minor injuries after crash-landing a small
plane that US authorities say they stole from an airport hangar. The
single-engine Mooney M20C belonged to one of the boys' parents, and the pair
were trying to run away from their homes, said Cindy Beavers, spokeswoman for
the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department in California.

Big Bear Airport has no control tower and pilots were not required to check in
with anyone before taking off, said the airport's general manager.

Two pilots saw the boys taxiing and called the plane's owner and the Sheriff's
Department.

The plane crashed in Joshua Tree National Park. The boys suffered minor injuries

.

PAKISTANI soldiers and helicopter gunships attacked a suspected al-Qaeda camp
yesterday near the Afghan border, killing more than 45 militants and angering
tribes who called for a new holy war just days before the US president arrives.

As news of the early morning strike spread in the rugged north-western region,
tribesmen who sympathise with the militants came out of their homes and began
firing in the air. A mosque loudspeaker urged people to 'wage jihad against the
army'.

The offensive was in North Waziristan, a region controlled by fiercely
independent, well-armed tribes believed to be sheltering al-Qaeda fugitives and
Taliban remnants.

THREE Britons jailed in Egypt for membership of an outlawed Islamic
fundamentalist group, yesterday said they had been repeatedly tortured for their
political beliefs.

Reza Pankhurst and Ian Nisbet of London and Maajid Nawaz of Westcliff-on-Sea,
Essex, returned to the UK last night having served three-quarters of a five-year
sentence they received in 2004.

They were arrested in 2002 for attempting to revive the Islamic organisation
Hizb ut-Tahrir - banned by the Egyptian Government in 1974.

The trio freely admitted to belonging to the organisation in the UK, where it is
legal, but said they were imprisoned in Egypt for their political beliefs.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 3, 2006 Friday

French Air Force policing airspace against terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 407 words


Text of report by French newspaper Liberation website on 3 March

Fighter aircraft are not standing idly by. Since 11 September 2001 not a day has
gone by without Air Force planes taking off rapidly to police the sky. They
intervene "one to three times a day", the head of air defence, Gen Stephane
Abrial, said this week. "We take an interest in approximately 50 flights every
day. Most of the time, it's enough simply to establish radio contact but
sometimes we have to go and take a closer look," he adds. "Often, it is simply a
radio problem. But it all started like that on 11 September... [agency
ellipsis]" the general points out. Every day air traffic control records more
than 10,000 air movements in the skies above France. He adds, "During peak hours
there are sometimes 700 aircraft in the air at the same time."

Two fighter aircraft at four bases (Creil, Orange, Mont-de Marsan and Lorient)
are on "operational duty". "They are on seven-minute alert during the day and on
15 minutes at night," the Air Force explains. This means that the two planes are
in the air seven minutes after getting the order. "This timeframe is reduced to
two minutes during tense periods, such as the period following the London
terrorist attacks," explains an officer.

This "permanent security posture" is commanded from the Taverny (Val-d'Oise)
underground base that houses the facilities for controlling air operations. A
permanent and direct link is maintained with the prime minister, who is
responsible for deciding whether or not to open fire on a civilian aircraft. At
no time since 11 September has the prime minister had to deal with such a real
threat. One of the major difficulties facing air defence officers is the
nation's limited territorial space. "An airliner crosses France in less than one
hour. Our main enemy is time," maintains Gen Abrial - and the country's borders,
where military aircraft must, in principle, turn back.

Agreements authorizing the "right of pursuit" have already been signed with
Switzerland and Spain. Others are to be signed with Italy, Great Britain,
Belgium and Brazil - for French Guiana's air space. There is the special case of
Germany - its Constitutional Court has just declared that its Air Force was not
authorized to shoot down an aeroplane hijacked by terrorists on the grounds that
the armed forces must not be engaged in internal security missions.

Source: Liberation website, Paris, in French 3 Mar 06

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                 March 3, 2006

UK Government: British Minister condemns terrorist attack in Karachi

LENGTH: 149 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-MARCH 3, 2006-UK Government: British Minister condemns terrorist
attack in Karachi ©1994-2006 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Speaking about the terrorist incident in Pakistan today, Foreign and
Commonwealth Minister, Kim Howells MP said:

"I condemn the horrendous bomb attack in Karachi today. This was another
senseless act of terrorism which has caused more loss of innocent lives. My
deepest sympathies are with the family and friends of all those killed and
injured. We are more determined than ever to work closely alongside the Pakistan
Government in their efforts to fight terrorism. We cannot allow the terrorists
to succeed."

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2006 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                 March 3, 2006

US DEPT OF STATE: Terrorist attack on U.S. Consulate Karachi

LENGTH: 177 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-MARCH 3, 2006-US DEPT OF STATE: Terrorist attack on U.S. Consulate
Karachi ©1994-2006 M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

Today we mourn the loss of two colleagues from the U.S. Consulate in Karachi who
lost their lives in a terrorist attack on our consulate. Our thoughts and
prayers are with the families of David Foy, a Foreign Service Officer, and
Iftikhar Ahmed, a local employee of the consulate. The condolences of the United
States also go out to the families of the innocent bystanders who lost their
lives in this brutal attack. There is no cause that justifies terror, and we
stand with the people of Pakistan in our common fight against terror. We will do
all that we can, working with the Pakistani government, to see that those
responsible for this attack face justice for what they have done.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2006 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              March 5, 2006 Sunday

Failed Saudi attack seen as "terrorists'" attempt to assert fading existence

LENGTH: 1607 words


The failed attack on a Saudi oil installation on 24 February was an attempt by
"terrorist groups" to assert an existence "which is beginning to fade," an
analyst has said.  In an article, the analyst also enumerated the possible
attractions of oil installations as targets and the reasons for the failure of
such attacks. The writer concluded by calling for support for "security
agencies" to help them track  "terrorist activities and to be prepared for what
may lie ahead in the days to come". The following is the text of the article by
Abd-al-Aziz Bin-Uthman Bin-Saqr headlined "What does the failed attack against
the oil facility at Buqayq mean?" published by London-based newspaper Al-Sharq
al-Awsat website on 26 February; subheadings inserted editorially:

Asserting a fading existence

The failed terrorist attack on one of Saudi Arabia's oil installations on Friday
[24 February] did not come as a big surprise to anybody following developments
in the war that the nation has declared on terrorist groups. The truth about the
failure of this most recent attack has also not come as a surprise to anybody
familiar with the scope and directions of developments in this struggle. There
are three fundamental elements or facts that stand out in any attempt to analyse
this event:

The first fact is that terrorist groups in Saudi Arabia face a real predicament
and they are groaning from the pain of the deep wounds left by the successive
blows that Saudi security agencies have succeeded in dealing to these groups'
havens and positions, especially over the past two years. This has created a
state of desperation and confusion in the leaderships of these groups both at
home and abroad and has led them to conduct any terrorist operation for the sake
of asserting their existence which is beginning to fade. A terrorist attack was
therefore expected sooner or later.

The second fact is that an attack targeting oil facilities in the nation was
also anticipated. Public appeals by the leaderships of terrorist organizations
obliging their elements to attack "petroleum interests" and an increased
emphasis on the high value of these targets had also increased recently.

The third fact is that the failure of the terrorist operation against the oil
facility did not come as a surprise. National security agencies, in cooperation
with oil organizations, have taken elaborate and extensive measures in order to
provide adequate protection for these vital facilities. This reduced the
likelihood of a successful terrorist attack against these targets. There are
more than 20,000 security personnel active in providing protection for oil
facilities in Saudi Arabia today, supported by the latest modern technology.
This does not necessarily mean that oil facilities in Saudi Arabia are
impregnable to any attack but it does mean that an assault against these targets
will not be easy or straight-forward and that the possibilities to foil or limit
the effects of a terrorist attack will be much greater than the likelihood of
its success.

The attempted terrorist attack on the oil facilities in the Buqayq area also
coincided with the escape of 23 terrorists belonging to the Al-Qa'idah
organization during the first week of this month from a Yemeni prison. This
prompted the responsible security agencies in Saudi Arabia to declare a state of
alert and emergency in order to deal with possibility that they would enter
Saudi territory and communicate with domestic sleeper cells, especially in the
light of the fact that approximately half of these escaped terrorists had been
extradited by Saudi security agencies to Yemeni authorities after pains and
efforts were made to arrest them in Saudi Arabia. These same terrorists were
also previously engaged in terrorist activities in Saudi Arabia and have
organizational connections and contacts in the field to terrorist groups inside
Saudi Arabia. The position in Saudi Arabia towards the surprise prison break of
individuals convicted of crimes of terrorism was mixed between watching and
waiting for the consequences that this prison break would entail for Saudi
Arabia's stability and security, as well as regret and embarrassment over the
occurrence of a serious event such as the mass outbreak of elements of the most
dangerous terrorist organization without the serious degree of cooperation that
this portentous matter merited, regionally or internationally, from the
responsible Yemeni authorities.

Appeal of oil facilities as targets

One asks the question: Why did terrorist organizations attempt an attack on the
oil facilities in Buqayq and what led to planning an attack on such facilities,
as well as to the encouragement by the leaderships of terrorist organizations,
secretly and publicly, for their elements to plot the destruction of the oil
facilities? There are various factors that make oil facilities and installations
or transport and power supply facilities in general, attractive targets for an
attack by terrorist groups. The primary factor is the fact that oil is a
strategic material whose value and importance is incomparable to any other
commodity. It sets the pace of present civilization. For oil producing and
exporting nations, petroleum represents the fundamental origin for their sources
of national wealth. Attacking and incapacitating oil installations would deal a
severe blow to the state. Incapacitating oil facilities would embarrass the
nation and cast doubt on its ability to provide services for the average citizen
as well as its ability to provide for the pace of economic development within
the country and for those things that fundamentally rely on refined oil
products, beginning with the production of electrical power, the communications
sector and all basic services in general.

The second factor is that an attack on oil installations is relatively easy to
carry out and it would yield significant returns from a political and
technological point of view. Oil-producing nations characteristically have large
numbers of oil facilities distributed over a wide geographical area that are
impossible to conceal. These facilities include oil wells, production stations,
collection centres, oil pipelines, pumping stations, ports, loading platforms,
oil tankers and other things belonging to the facility's vast substructure.

The third factor involves the material nature of oil in its chemical composition
and structure. Oil is a highly inflammable and combustible material and any
minor attack targeting oil storage facilities would lead to a major explosion
and ignite a fire that would be difficult to control and may last for days.

The final factor is extremely important and involves the fact that any attack on
oil installations in oil-producing nations would produce repercussions and
breakdowns at an international level. The world oil market, especially in the
light of its being subject to an imbalance between supply and demand, would be
faced with an excess in international demand against supply, and concern would
therefore grow over any developments that would lead to a drop in oil production
and export. Attacks on oil targets would therefore not only present a local but
also an international appeal that would be foremost in the calculations of
terrorist groups, which continuously wish to expand their sphere of influence
and pressure in addition to the guarantee of international advertising for their
operations on an international level that attacks on anything connected to the
production of oil and energy would definitely provide.

Attacks on oil facilities in Iraq

Over the past three years, the world has witnessed a degree of activity of
terrorist operations targeting oil facilities that have occurred or are
occurring in the Iraqi theatre of conflict. Based on official Iraqi government
statistics, terrorist sabotage operations directed against oil facilities
collectively have cost the state an excess of 6bn dollars during the past year
alone. Nearly 186 terrorist attacks of all varieties targeting oil facilities
have been recorded, including operations to blow up oil wells and oil pipeline
networks (pipeline networks for export abroad, pipeline networks to supply crude
oil for refineries and pipeline networks to transport oil products). But what is
happening in Iraq represents an exceptional situation and must not be
generalized. The losses in the Iraqi oil sector are the result of the overall
situation gripping the country caused by the collapse of security in the nation
in general and this is a situation that has led to repeated terrorist operations
against oil facilities on a daily basis. In addition to this, technical agencies
have not been able to deal swiftly and effectively with the effects of these
acts.

In reality, and in conventional situations, the effects of the majority of
terrorist acts against oil facilities are limited. Perhaps the effects
themselves are temporary and can be overcome if the nation possesses the
technical capabilities to deal with the aftermaths of terrorist operations and
if the state has prepared comprehensive emergency plans that may be effective in
the event of such occurrences. The state should also have a security plan to
prevent the repetition of these acts and to limit the possibilities of their
success and then an attempt to eliminate their sources.

It must also be stated that it is necessary to support and develop security
agencies in their human, technical and training capacities to follow
developments in terrorist activities and to be prepared for what may lie ahead
in the days to come.

Source: Al-Sharq al-Awsat website, London, in Arabic 26 Feb 06

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sunday Herald

                                 March 5, 2006

MI5 feared attacks by Jewish terrorists;
SECRET THREE: GOVERNMENT TARGETED;
Extremist cells thought to be coming to London

BYLINE: By Judith Duffy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 492 words



HIGHLIGHT: An attack on Jerusalem's King David Hotel showed hostility to British
rule


JEWISH terrorists planned to assassinate Cabinet ministers in Clement Attlee's
government, together with other VIPs in 1940s London, the British security
service feared.

The threat of extremists sending cells to the UK capital was also causing
concern, according to the confidential records which were released yesterday.

The armed struggle against the British Mandate of Palestine had seen the murder
in Cairo in late 1944 of Britain's minister resident in the Middle East, Lord
Moyne, by members of the extremist Stern Gang.

Fellow Jewish resistance movement Irgun - which came to be headed by future
Israeli premier Menachem Begin - had also conducted a violent campaign against
British rule.

This included the July 1946 bombing of the King David Hotel in Jerusalem, the
site of the British military command and the British Criminal Investigation
Division, and the bombing of the British Embassy in Rome the same year.

Cambridge University historian Professor Christopher Andrew said: "It sounds
pretty far-fetched, but it is not too difficult to see why MI5 felt worried -
because of the attempted assassinations of a number of prominent British
individuals and the successful assassination of Lord Moyne in the Middle East."

He added that the attempts consisted of 20 letter bombs to be posted to the
government, but they had had to be posted from Italy as they couldn't find
people to post them in London. "But nonetheless, the belief was that there was a
serious assassination plot, " he said.

The files contain a telegram dated February 12, 1946, from Palestine, which
revealed a reliable source had told CID that the Stern Group "are training
members to go to England to assassinate members of His Majesty's Government".

A memo the following day from the officer administering the government of
Palestine to the secretary of state for the colonies then passed on further
details of "alleged plans by the Stern Group to assassinate certain of His
Majesty's Ministers and other prominent personages in Britain".

Another warning which highlighted the threat of terrorist cells said: ". . . a
further report received today from our Jerusalem representative, which states
that the Irgun Zvai Leumi and the Stern Group have decided to send five cells to
London to operate in a manner similar to the IRA."

Further documents revealed how Begin was thought to have confounded the British
security services by having cosmetic surgery to change his identity in the
1940s.

A note from February 1947 passed on reports to MI5 that he "has undergone a
plastic facial operation and that his appearance is totally different from that
displayed on police photographs".

It adds: "I pass this to you for what it may be worth. We have no description of
the new face."

In 1948 Begin founded the Herut Party - which became the Likud Party - and
became premier in 1977. A year later he was jointly awarded the Nobel Peace
Prize after negotiating the Camp David accords with Egypt.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: SUNHER


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                             March 6, 2006, Monday
                                 First Edition

Archbishop in new attack on terror camp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 415 words


The Archbishop of Canterbury has launched a scathing attack on Guantanamo Bay,
branding the US prison camp an "extraordinary legal anomaly".

Dr Rowan Williams said keeping in custody people who had not been found guilty
or allowed access to proper legal channels, set a dangerous precedent.

"Any message given, that any state can just over-ride some of the basic habeas
corpus type provisions, is going to be very welcome to tyrants elsewhere in the
world, now and in the future.

"What, in 10 years' time, are people going to be able to say about a system that
tolerates this," he said.

Dr Williams, who was elected as Archbishop of Canterbury in July 2002, said
during his time as head of the Anglican Communion he had made great efforts to
reach out to moderate Muslims in an effort to combat terrorism.

He said he believed terrorism was an "insult to God and man".

"A lot of my own energy and the energy of a great many Anglicans in the last few
years has gone into trying to build bridges to moderate Muslim opinion,
strengthening precisely their own resistance to terror and violence."

He added: "I have no time for terrorism. I hold no brief for Muslim extremism. I
think it's an insult to God and man."

The reaction of Muslims in some parts of the world to the publication of
cartoons depicting the Prophet Mohammed had been a "hysterical overreaction", he
said, but the violence stemmed from their perception of themselves as
"constantly being pushed to the edge of every discussion and every negotiation
in the world".

On the subject of free speech, Dr Williams said comments made by controversial
historian David Irving, who was jailed for three years in Austria for denying
the Holocaust, did amount to a hate crime.

"I think it's the case always that words have consequences. People who live by
words sometimes don't understand the practical consequences."

Words about the Holocaust, he said, were not neutral.

Dr Williams was speaking in Khartoum, Sudan, during a one-week World Food
Programme tour of the country.

Contemplating the breakup of the Anglican church over the divisions over gay
priests and gay bishops, Dr Williams said: "If there is a rupture, it's going to
be a more visible rupture, it's not just going to settle down quietly into being
a federation.

"I suppose my anxiety about it is that if the Communion is broken we may be left
with even less than a federation."

He said if the church did split, it would take decades to re-establish a
relationship between the two factions.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                              March 6, 2006 Monday

Vicar steps down after terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 428 words


A Bristol vicar whose daughter was killed in the London bombings has resigned
from her post because she cannot forgive the suicide bombers.

The Rev Julie Nicholson has not returned to her post as priest-in-charge of St
Aidan with St George church since the attacks of July 7 last year in which
24-year-old  Jenny was one of more than 50 people killed.

Mrs Nicholson said: "It is very difficult for me to stand behind an altar and
celebrate the Eucharist and talk to people in words of peace, reconciliation and
forgiveness when I feel very far from that myself."

Bristol diocese spokesman John Lloyd confirmed today that Mrs Nicholson had left
the church in St George.

He said: "She has moved out of parish work. She is working on a diocesean
community youth project within Bristol.

"This new post - taking up a special and long-term interest in the arts and
theology - is a natural extension of her ministry within the church," he said.

Churchwardens at St Aidan and St George, where Mrs Nicholson was on extended
leave of absence since the  bombings, will now try to find a new vicar.

Mrs Nicholson was filming with the Bishop of Bristol, the Rt Rev Mike Hill
yesterday, for a TV programme she is to present at Easter in which she will talk
to people in similar circumstances to herself about how they have coped with the
bombings and how it has affected their faith.

She and husband Gregg, who works for BAE Systems, were on holiday at the time of
the bombings. They have two other children, Lizzie and Tom.

Jenny grew up in Bristol and studied for a Masters degree in music at Bristol
University. She was head chorister at St Mary's in Henbury and a member of
Horfield Amateur Dramatic Society.

She had moved to Reading to live with boyfriend James and was travelling to her
job at a music publishers in London when the bomb went off.

Her funeral at Bristol Cathedral in August was led by the Bishop of Bristol, a
friend of her mother, and attended by about 1,000 people.

Bishop Mike said at the service: "Perhaps none of us, save the close families of
others similarly lost on July 7, can begin to know the pain that Julie, Gregg,
Lizzie, Thomas, James and members of Jenny's wider family must be feeling at
this desolate time. Our hearts go out to them in their grief."

His address dealt with the difficulty of dealing with Jenny's death due to the
way in which she and others lost their lives that day.

He said: "No one who lost a loved one on that fateful day had the opportunity to
say a 'goodbye'.

"Things have been left unsaid and that is very difficult for those left behind."

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 7, 2006 Tuesday

Jordanian court indicts four people for conspiring to carry out terror attacks

LENGTH: 183 words


Text of report in English by Jordan Times website on 7 March

Amman: During a hearing on Monday [6 March], the State Security Court listened
to testimonies of two witnesses in the case of Yusuf al-Daghastani, a Syrian
accused of threatening to carry out terror attacks following the 9 November,
2005 triple bombings in Amman. The suspect, who allegedly posted threatening
text in the political forum of the Jordan Information Centre (JIC) website, is
charged with threatening the use of force to disrupt security and spread panic
among people. One of the witnesses, a technician working for the General
Intelligence Department, said the message was sent from Al-Zarqa, where the
defendant was visiting relatives. Also on Monday, the court indicted four
suspects on conspiracy charges with the intent of carrying out terrorist attacks
in the kingdom. In addition, they are charged with the acquisition of automatic
and unlicensed weaponry. The suspects were identified as Mu'adh Brayzat, Ibrahim
Jahawsha, Faysal al-Ruwaydan and Ubadah al-Hiyari.

Source: Jordan Times website, Amman, in English 7 Mar 06

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 7, 2006 Tuesday

Third blast on moving train in India, blasts confirmed as "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 588 words


Excerpt from report by Indian Zee News TV on 7 March

[Newsreader] There have been three serial blasts in Varanasi. Now, let us show
you this scene at a hospital.

[Unidentified correspondent] [words indistinct] brother?

[Unidentified injured person at a hospital] As soon as the people reached the
inquiry counter [of the railway station], there was an explosion.

[Unidentified correspondents, simultaneously] How did the blast take place? What
kind of sound did you hear?

[Injured person] I was not able to understand anything at that time. I just
heard the sound and then .... [incomplete sentence as heard]

[Unidentified correspondent] Why have you gone to the station? Where were you
going?

[Injured Person] I had gone to the station to see off my uncle.

[Unidentified correspondent] Where is your uncle?

[Injured person] He has been injured. He is over there [points his finger in the
direction of his uncle]

[Unidentified correspondent] Doctor, how many patients have come to your
hospital?

[Unidentified doctor] Eight patients have come in. Eight people from the Cant
Station, where the incident took place, have come here. They are being treated
here. There is one girl who does not have her parents or anybody else from her
house here, but we have started treating all the people. All should do it. We
should serve the people selflessly. We have made arrangements for the bed.
Whether their family members come here or not, we have started treating them.

[Unidentified correspondent] What is the condition of all these patients?

[Unidentified doctor] Two patients are in serious condition, but others have
sustained minor injuries, have been slightly hit by shrapnels at different
places, but there is no danger. Only two patients are in dangerous condition.

[Unidentified correspondent] Two patients are in serious condition.

[Unidentified orrespondent] Yes, two are serious.

[Newsreader] You were hearing interviews with the people in a hospital in
Varanasi.

The most serious thing and major news is that one more blast has been reported.
There is a report of one more bomb blast in a moving train at Lohta station near
Varanasi. This blast has taken place in the outskirts of the city, some 25 km
away, near Lohta station.

There have been three serial blasts within 10 minutes. The explosions were
carried out on the pattern of the Delhi blasts. The Home Ministry says it may be
a terrorist attack. It is a terrorist attack. The three serial blasts on the
pattern of the Delhi blasts have occurred in Varanasi just before the [Hindu]
festival of Holi in the same manner as they had taken place in Delhi just two
days before the Hindu festival of lights. Terrorism has again raised its head
and has again targeted a religious place. [video shows some people gathered at
the blast site and raising slogans]

Explosions in Varanasi are a terrorist attack on Varanasi. It has now been
confirmed that all the three blasts that took place in Varanasi today are
terrorist attacks. The first attack took place at the ancient Sankatmochan
temple at around 6:00 p.m. [ 1230 gmt]; the second attack occurred at the Cant
Station of Varanasi; and the report of a third attack has come in about yet
another bomb blast in a moving train at around 8:30 p.m. near Lohta station.
Borders of Varanasi city have been sealed and security forces deployed. Security
measures have been tightened at all sensitive places across the country - at
temples, railway stations, and bus stations. [passage omitted]

Source: Zee News TV, New Delhi, in Hindi 1600 gmt 7 Mar 06

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            March 8, 2006 Wednesday

G2: The terrorist who wasn't: After the 9/11 terrorist attacks, Metropolitan
police travelled to Israel, Russia and Sri Lanka to learn how to deal with
possible suicide attackers. Yet when London was faced with a genuine threat, an
innocent man was shot dead. Peter Taylor investigates the crucial lessons that
went unlearned

BYLINE: Peter Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2433 words


Operation Kratos, the highly controversial policy put in place by the
Metropolitan Police to deal with suicide bombers, is not for the faint-hearted.
The word comes from the ancient Greek meaning might, power or strength. The name
is not misplaced. On July 22 last year the operation climaxed with the tragic
killing of 27-year-old Jean Charles de Menezes in a carriage deep underground at
Stockwell tube station in London. The young Brazilian was innocent, shot seven
times in the head by two undercover officers from Scotland Yard's elite firearms
unit known as CO19. It was a disastrous case of mistaken identity.

But however terrible the events of that day, they have to be seen in their
context. On July 7, suicide bombers had caused carnage in London when they
attacked the tube and a bus leaving 52 dead and more than 700 injured. Two weeks
later, four bombers struck again, although this time their bombs failed to
explode. Three of them had originally left from Stockwell station. On the
morning of July 22, four suspects were still at large and had to be located and
stopped in case they struck again. The pressure on the police was enormous. One
of the suspects was Hussain Osman, who was alleged to have left one of the
failed bombs at Shepherd's Bush tube station. In the bag, a gym membership card
was found that led police to a block of flats in Scotia Road, Tulse Hill, where
they now believed Osman was living. They placed the flats under surveillance
early that morning. De Menezes was living there too. As he left for work at 9.33
that bright summer morning, he was followed by undercover Special Branch teams
who, after initial uncertainties, finally identified him positively, but
wrongly, as Osman. At no stage on his 33-minute journey to Stockwell was De
Menezes challenged, either on foot or on the bus.

Even as late as the last few minutes of his life, De Menezes's death might have
been avoided. As the surveillance officers followed him down the escalator and
on to the tube, they might have finally realised that he was not concealing a
bomb. De Menezes wasn't carrying a bag and was only wearing a denim jacket that
was unlikely to conceal explosives. But they had no way of transmitting the
message - either to the CO19 officers who were following close behind or to
Commander Cressida Dick who was running the operation from the Special Branch
operations room at Scotland Yard. Their radios didn't work underground. One call
from the surveillance officers to either party might possibly have saved De
Menezes's life.

The fact that their radios were useless on the tube seems surprising. The Met
had been preparing to counter the threat of suicide bombers in London for almost
four years since 9/11 and had repeatedly asked the Home Office to provide radios
that would work underground. The request seems understandable given that a
suicide attack could well come on a deep-line tube where a bomber's deadly
impact would be maximised. John Stevens says that when he was commissioner of
the Met, he did all he could to persuade the Home Office to provide specialist
radios. "It was a major issue, because if we did not have proper communication
with our officers in the tube, we were going to have problems. In a fast-moving
situation, you have to inform the officers involved what is taking place.
Equally importantly, they have to get back in touch with you as to what they're
doing and why they're doing it. It is absolutely key that communications are
working."

Today the situation is no different. Police officers do have the new
state-of-the-art "Airwave" radios, but they still don't work deep underground.
The Home Office says contracts have still to be signed to put the necessary
infrastructure in place.

There may be another possible reason why De Menezes was killed, despite the fact
he was not seen to be carrying or wearing a bomb. I asked Chief Inspector Martin
Rush, who runs the Met's firearms training centre at Gravesend, whether his
officers actually have to see a suicide jacket, or what they think may be a
suicide jacket, before they open fire. "No," he replied.

This is not the case in Israel, where suicide bombers have been a fact of life
for years. I put the same question to Major General Mickey Levy, the police
commander in Jerusalem from 2000 to 2004, who dealt with 42 suicide bombers in
his time. He said his officers had to be sure they could see a suicide vest or
explosives before they opened fire. In the vast majority of cases, he says, the
suspects they confronted were indeed suicide bombers because the intelligence
built up over so many years was so good. The Israelis stop roughly nine out of
10 suicide bombers before they can detonate their payloads.

So if the CO19 officers didn't see any bomb, why did they open fire? And how, if
at all, were they authorised to do so? This question lies at the heart of the
investigation conducted by the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC),
whose findings are now being considered by the Crown Prosecution Service. The
CPS will decide whether any police officers should face prosecution. Although
senior officers say that the final decision to use lethal force rests with the
person who pulls the trigger, in reality, the ultimate responsibility may well
lie elsewhere. Once a Kratos operation is under way, it is commanded by one of a
number of specially trained and highly experienced officers at Scotland Yard
known as "designated senior officers". One told me that he reassures the
firearms officers under his command that if anyone ends up in the dock, it's
him.

In running a Kratos operation, the DSO has a range of codewords to convey
instructions to the CO19 officers on the ground. They culminate in one
particular codeword that authorises the use of lethal force. But, in the end,
the success or failure of the operation depends on the quality of the
intelligence. It is primarily this intelligence, received and analysed in the
Special Branch operations room at Scotland Yard, that determines how CO19
officers are instructed to act. According to assistant commissioner Steve House,
who is now in charge of CO19 and Kratos, the role of the DSO is central. "The
intelligence picture may be so fast-moving, with so many different intelligence
strands coming in at any one time, that it needs someone at the centre to make a
decision because only they are seeing the full picture. Therefore, yes, one of
the ways it can work is that the designated senior officer would give the order
to the officers on the ground to open fire." So does that mean that the DSO in
effect pulled the trigger? "We believe that a good measure of responsibility for
the decision does lie with the designated senior officer," he said.

So who bears responsibility for the death of Jean Charles de Menezes? The person
in the most exposed position is Commander Cressida Dick, a highly regarded,
Oxford-educated officer, who was DSO on the day of the shooting. Above all, she
needed to know from her surveillance team if the suspect they had been following
was Hussain Osman. For some time, there was uncertainty. However, this seems to
have been eroded when the team saw him get off the bus at Brixton to catch the
tube and, seeing that the station was closed, make a phone call before getting
back on the bus again. They may have falsely interpreted this as a
counter-surveillance measure, whereas in fact De Menezes was simply calling his
Brazilian work mate, Gesio d'Avila, to say he would be late for the electrical
job they were due to start in Kilburn because Brixton station was closed.

But it appears that the surveillance officers had made a positive identification
before the bus reached Stockwell. I understand that Commander Dick then said
something like, "Are you absolutely sure?", to which the answer seems to have
been yes. She then activated the CO19 unit, who would have driven at high speed
to Stockwell, probably at the very last minute. The $64,000 question is: what
instruction did she then transmit to the surveillance and firearms teams at
Stockwell? Did she do more than instruct CO19 to stop him entering the tube?
Whether she used the code word authorising the use of lethal force is as yet not
known. This is central to the IPCC's investigation.

Just days after 9/11, the Met recognised that London could be the target of a
suicide attack and that the necessary resources, training and policy had to be
in place as soon as possible. Deputy assistant commissioner Barbara Wilding (now
chief constable of South Wales) became chair of the Met's suicide bomber working
party, which soon took on a national perspective when it was pointed out that
the bombers, like the IRA, might strike outside London. "It was within about 10
days of 9/11 that I was asked to review strategy and come up with a plan," says
Wilding. "With Irish terrorism there always tended to be a warning and an escape
plan. The IRA didn't want to die. They wanted to leave their bomb and live. With
suicide terrorism, the target was innocent civilians. There was no escape plan
at all. To live was to fail." She soon realised that London was totally
unprepared for such an attack. "We had a huge gap and we had to fill those gaps
as soon as possible."

One of the first things she and her team did was to visit Israel, Sri Lanka and
Russia to learn from their experiences of dealing with suicide bombers. The most
important lesson she brought back from Israel was the need to buy time - to
identify the suspect through accurate intelligence and then to intercept the
bomber as far away as possible from the intended target. "That's what the
Israelis call their 'fighting time'," she says. "It can be two or three minutes
or days or weeks or months and then once you've executed your plan, that's the
end of the incident. The interventions have got to be covert because if bombers
know they've been identified, they'll blow themselves up and probably take out
innocent members of the public."

Many agencies became involved in the development of Kratos, including the Home
Office, MI5, Special Forces, the MoD, the attorney general, the director of
public prosecutions and Treasury lawyers. Legal advice was crucial, as
fatalities seemed likely: officers were instructed to aim at the heads of
suspected bombers because a shot at the chest might detonate any explosive vest.

The question was, would such exceptional circumstances still be covered by the
existing law on the use of lethal force, which permits only such force as is
"reasonable under the circumstances in the prevention of a crime"? The law
applies to all citizens, including police officers. There are no special cases.
It is therefore not surprising that a minute of a meeting of August 2 2002
records that "the legal issues surrounding the use of firearms in response to
potential suicide bombers are very complex". Prophetically, one scenario
envisaged by government lawyers refers to "police shooting a suspect without
explosives". Recognition that Kratos had been eventually signed off
operationally and legally was formally made at a meeting on January 22 2003 at
MI5 headquarters. From that point it was up and running.

The problem on July 22 was that there was virtually no "fighting time" and,
according to Barbara Wilding, it was not one of the scenarios the Met had
planned for. Although Kratos policy has since been extensively revised under
assistant commissioner House, on July 22 it covered only two narrow scenarios:
Kratos, a spontaneous event in which a potential suicide bomber is suddenly
identified by, say, a member of the public and there is no prior intelligence;
and Clydesdale, where there is detailed intelligence about an attack on a
specific target which means that the police have ample time to put their tactics
in place. The situation on July 22 fell into neither category.

I asked Wilding if Stockwell fitted the Kratos scenario. "Did we look at a
mobile intelligence-gathering operation going live?" she asked. "The answer is,
no, we didn't. What we looked (at) on July 22, as I understand it, was somewhere
in between." She confirmed that the operation that day was not one that had been
planned for.

The De Menezes family are still stunned by what happened and the protracted
failure of the authorities to provide any explanation. "An honest policeman who
was doing his job properly would have spoken to my son first, stopped him and
asked him where he was going, and not just have shot and killed him without
knowing who he was," says De Menezes's mother. "They made so many mistakes that
I don't know where to begin." Her bitterness is understandable.

Maria Otone de Menezes and her husband Matozinho are simple, dignified people
who live on a small farmstead an hour's drive outside the village of Gonzaga
where their son now lies buried. Spanning the dusty road at the entrance to the
village is a sign that reads "Land of Jean Charles de Menezes. Victim of
terrorism in London. Here we value life." For years the family have worked hard
to survive. Their livelihood comes from Matozinho's two dozen cows and the
family's ubiquitous chickens. The area offers little for the young. There's no
work and no future here. "Jean couldn't earn a decent wage because people here
are poor," Maria says. That's why he went to London. His father, Matozinho, says
Jean had made them a promise. "I'll send you everything I earn from my job in
London. And after I have been working there for a few years, I'll come back to
Brazil and live here." De Menezes was never able to fulfil that promise.

The family are determined that those responsible should be brought to justice
and pay the penalty for what they see as cold-blooded murder. The commissioner,
Ian Blair, is top of the list. "He is the person who is most responsible for
what has happened," says De Menezes's cousin Patricia, who lives in London. "It
was a series of errors which began at the top and then ended up with an officer
killing my cousin. I think that all of them, without exception, should be
prosecuted. They judged my cousin, and sentenced him, all in the space of a
moment."

Stockwell was a double tragedy - above all for the De Menezes family, but also
for the Metropolitan Police, whose officers believed they were trying to protect
the people of London. If the suspect had indeed been a suicide bomber, the
officers who ran the operation and finally killed him would probably have been
decorated. Instead they face the possibility of going to court *

Peter Taylor's Panorama special, Stockwell: Countdown to a Killing, will be
shown tonight on BBC1 at 9pm.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             March 10, 2006 Friday

Why 'V for Vendetta' spells C for controversy London comes under terrorist
attack in the latest from the 'Matrix' stable, a film that's been plagued with
problems. John Hiscock reports

BYLINE: John Hiscock

SECTION: FEATURES; Film; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1095 words


It is a question that has been asked many times on the internet and at
comic-book conventions over the past few months. Why has Alan Moore so publicly
dissociated himself from the soon-to-be-released film based on his acclaimed
graphic novel V for Vendetta?

Well, one reason is that Moore, who wrote the Orwellian book in the 1980s as a
rebuke to Thatcherite Britain, believes the screenplay is "imbecilic''. But that
is only one of a series of problems and setbacks to have plagued the
controversial Warner Bros film.

Even before production began, there were doubts about whether the film should be
made at all, because of fears that it could be viewed as an endorsement for
terrorism and anarchy. Its hero is a masked terrorist who bombs London landmarks
and assassinates British government officials in an attempt to overthrow a
totalitarian regime. In a spectacular climax, he blows up Parliament in the name
of freedom.

Raising some troubling questions about the use of violence in a just cause, the
film - on which Tony Blair's son Euan helped out during work experience -
underlines the fact that one man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter.

Produced by the Matrix masterminds Andy and Larry Wachowski, V for Vendetta
stars Hugo Weaving as the terrorist who never removes his Guy Fawkes mask and
Natalie Portman as the woman he rescues from the secret police and who gives up
everything - including, in one memorable scene, her hair - for the cause. John
Hurt, who starred as Winston Smith in the not dissimilar 1984, plays the
villainous and all-powerful Chancellor of Britain, Adam Sutler, whose government
rules by fear and intimidation.

Originally the British actor James Purefoy was cast as V, the terrorist hero,
but after four weeks of filming he was replaced by Weaving because, it is said,
he struggled with the challenge of acting in a mask.

Another stumbling block was the postponement of the film's release from November
5, Guy Fawkes Day, because its climax features the use of the London Underground
to bomb Parliament; days after filming finished, real-life terrorist bombers
struck on the Tube. The delay, designed to put some time between the tragedy and
the film's release, made nonsense of the widely seen trailer that urged
audiences to "remember, remember the fifth of November''.

The script, by the Wachowskis, differs considerably from Moore's novel, which is
set in the 1990s and contains allegorical digs at Margaret Thatcher's Britain.
The film, set in a ravaged, crumbling London in 2020, when most of the rest of
the world has been destroyed by biological warfare and viruses, has been updated
to reflect current fears about what a future totalitarian state might repress -
free speech, homosexuality and Islam, among other things.

Moore's outspoken denunciation of the project has proved a major embarrassment,
although the filmmakers have attempted to brush it aside.

"For Alan, the material is 25 years old and there is a part of him that has
moved on,'' says James McTeigue, the genial Australian-born director who is
making his feature-film debut after having been the Wachowskis' longtime
first-assistant director and friend. "It is disappointing he didn't want to be
involved with it, but that's Alan. That's his personality.''

Moore, who rarely gives interviews, has long viewed Hollywood with suspicion,
and his attitude turned hostile after a legal dispute over the film adaptation
of his comic book The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen. Two other films based
on his works, Swamp Thing and From Hell, were failures, and his masterpiece,
Watchmen, made history in comic books but has changed hands several times as a
movie property since the 1980s and has still not reached the screen.

He began writing V for Vendetta in 1981 to express his alarm at Britain's hard
turn towards the Right under Thatcher. It first appeared in Warrior, a monthly
comic magazine, and ran in 26 issues before the publication folded, leaving fans
hanging mid-plot. After five years, Moore and illustrator David Lloyd completed
it and it was released in its entirety as a graphic novel.

It tells the tale of V, a mysterious masked hero (or terrorist) with a horrific
past and an impressive expertise with knives and explosives, who makes it his
goal to overthrow Sutler's government. He is aided by Evey (Portman), an orphan
who has no choice but to join his crusade. With its disturbing echoes of
terrorist attacks on America, Spain and Britain, V for Vendetta is more volatile
and provocative than any other comic-book movie.

"It's a political piece,'' says Weaving, who barely had time to read the script
before leaving his home in Australia to replace Purefoy. "It is full of ideas
and that's the reason I was drawn to it. The central issue is fear and to what
extent people living in fear should or should not take responsibility for their
own lives, and it is also about governments not being responsible to their own
people.''

According to Portman, some people believe it's based on the situation in North
Korea, while others see the story's roots in Nazi Germany. "There are so many
resonances in the world today,'' she says. "Although it was written about
Thatcher's England, the fact that it can be applied to so many different times
and places shows the cyclical nature of these occurrences in history. In the
film, V is described as an idea rather than a person. One of the reasons he is
invincible is because you can kill a man, but an idea can't be killed.''

The film rights were bought by the producer Joel Silver in the 1980s and he
enlisted the Wachowskis, with whom he had worked on the Matrix films and who had
long been intrigued by the graphic novel, to join him in bringing it to the
screen.

It was filmed over three months in Berlin and London on a comparatively low
budget of pounds 35 million. After nine months of negotiations with 14
government departments and agencies, the filmmakers were granted unprecedented
permission to take over Whitehall between Trafalgar Square and the Houses of
Parliament; so, for three nights last June, between midnight and 5am, tanks
rolled towards Big Ben as 400 extras dressed in military uniforms and helmets
marched in the street.

"It is an allegory,'' says McTeigue. "It is about things that have gone on in
the past, things that are happening now and things that I am sure will happen in
the future. I hope it works as a piece of entertainment and I hope audiences
will talk about some of the ideas it discusses and the questions it asks.''

'V for Vendetta' (15) opens in Britain next Friday.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                             March 10, 2006 Friday

Thug - I was angry about terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 406 words


Craig Rosie was so upset by the July 7 bombings in London, he  attacked a group
of Muslims outside a mosque two days later, a court heard.

The 32-year-old shouted racist abuse and spat at the men then punched one of
them in the face.

His victim Haroon Ismail required hospital treatment for a deep gash above his
eye.

Scaffolder Rosie, a convicted football hooligan, accused the group of being
bombers, Gloucester Crown Court heard. The incident was captured on CCTV, which
had been installed outside the Noor mosque in Ryecroft Street, Gloucester in the
wake of the July 7 attacks, on Tube stations and a bus which claimed 52 lives.

Rosie, of Linden Street, Gloucester, was jailed for eight months after he
pleaded guilty to racially aggravated assault and racial harassment on July 9
last year.

Crown Prosecutor Tim Evans said the Muslims were standing on the steps of the
mosque after last prayers of the day when Rosie and his companion John Chapman
approached them.

He said Rosie told them people like them were to blame for the July 7 bombings.

He said: "One man was spat at and had to step back to miss it.

"A swing was then taken by Rosie at one of the men in the group, who was punched
on the eye. There was then something of a fracas.

"During the course of the incident the defendant had been shouting obscenities,
accusing the assembled congregation of being scum and bombers and saying they
should go back where they came from."

Mr Evans said the former RAF chef had a string of   convictions for public order
offences,   two of football hooliganism and one of racist behaviour.

George Threlfall, defending, said at the time of the attack Rosie had drunk
eight pints of cider and was feeling  outraged about the London bombings.

He said Rosie was also feeling aggrieved because moments earlier a young Asian
had cycled past him and Mr Chapman and called them gay.

"We have to bear in mind these offences were two days after the London bombings
and feelings were running  high," he said.

"A  large number of people - I think virtually 99 per cent of the country - were
angry at what the white European Englishman saw as an attack on his culture."

He added Rosie had no links with right- wing groups.

Sentencing, Recorder Rowland told Rosie: "This was wholly unacceptable and
bigoted abuse. These men had to listen to the racist rubbish that you were
coming out with.

"These offences are so serious that only a custodial sentence can be justified."

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Hemel Gazette

                                 March 10, 2006

ARSON ATTACK TERROR LEAVES FAMILY HOMELESS

LENGTH: 419 words


Friday, March 10: A Hemel Hempstead family was left homeless after a suspected
arson attack on Saturday night almost destroyed their house.

The three bedroom semi-detached council house in Prince Park, Chaulden remains
burnt out and its occupants have been moved into temporary accommodation by
Dacorum Borough Council.

The family had a lucky escape as they were out at the time of the fire, which
spread through the house and devastated it in minutes.

It is believed the fire was started deliberately. The family are too distraught
to comment, however, police are treating the fire as a suspected arson with
intent to harm and are appealing for anyone with information to come forward.

If anyone was in the area prior to the fire or has any information about it they
should contact the area crime unit on 01923 472949 or call Crimestoppers on 0800
555111.

CLICK HERE TO CONTACT US, TELL US YOUR NEWS, TELL US YOUR VIEWS ON THE NEWS

LINK The battle to save Hemel Hempstead Hospital's Birth Centre - JUST CLICK
HERE

Email us YOUR pictures of local events, scenes etc see YOUR pictures on site. -
just click here

LINK to Are you running in the London Marathon? Get free publicity for your
sponsorship - see who else is running, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK to Local news topics in depth including M1 widening, Luton Airport
Expansion, Bovingdon bank closure, Campaign to save Bovingdon Fire Station and
more in News Features, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK: To go to the special Buncefield explosion section - just click here

There's lots more on this website, just click on the links below

IS AN OLD FRIEND LOOKING FOR YOU? LOOK FOR AN OLD FRIEND - IT'S ALL FREE, JUST
CLICK HERE

LINK: Dig Deep for the Hospice. All about the appeal, click here

FOR HELP WITH RESEARCHING YOUR FAMILY TREE, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK: Click here to go to our new section to help you find or swap something.
It's all FREE too

LINK: Click here to go to our new Missing Pets section

FIND OUT THE HISTORY BEHIND HEMEL'S STREET NAMES, JUST CLICK HERE

ASK A LOCAL HISTORY QUESTION AND SEE THE ANSWERS

TO SEE THE VIEWS OF OTHERS ON THE LOCAL NEWS, CLICK HERE

FOR THE WEEK'S WHAT'S ON DETAILS, CLICK HERE

FOR NEWS AND INFORMATION FROM BERKHAMSTED, CLICK HERE

FOR NEWS AND INFORMATION FROM TRING, CLICK HERE

TO BROWSE THROUGH OUR EXTENSIVE LOCAL HISTORY SECTION, CLICK HERE

Full reports on the local news in Wednesday's big Gazette available from
newsagents from Wednesday morning

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 11, 2006 Saturday

Indian police say terrorist attacks foiled in Goa

LENGTH: 358 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Panaji,StartDateStartDate 11 March: Possible terrorist strikes at popular
tourist locations in Goa was prevented with the arrest of a militant with
explosives, including one kg of RDX, and firearms from Margoa railway station,
30 km from here.

Identifying the militant as Tarique Jalal alias Tarique Batlo, director-general
of police Neeraj Kumar on Saturday [11 March] said police recovered one kg of
RDX, two Russian-made hand grenades, two electronic detonators, two cameras, a
mobile phone and a CD from his possession after his arrest late Friday.

Acting on intelligence inputs, he was taken into custody after alighted from
Ernakulam-bound Matsyagandha Express at the railway station, Kumar said.

The DGP said during his interrogation the Tariq revealed that he was a member of
Pakistan-based militant Tehrik-ul-Mojahedin which works under Lashkar-i-Toiba.

He had taken two-and-a-half years training in Pakistan for conducting terrorist
activities and has also travelled to Bangladesh and Nepal, Kumar claimed.

"Tourist spots could have been his target," the DGP said and added, "we have to
find out whether he was here to set up base or execute some plan."

Investigations have revealed that the terrorist was frequenting Goa for last
eight months and was staying in a rented flat at Sirvodem near Margao town.

Goa police are trying to find out other connections of Tarique, who claims to be
from Srinagar.

A ticket found from his possession showed that that he boarded the train from
Delhi's Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station, the DGP said.

"He is cooperating with us in the interrogations and team of central agency
would soon come to Goa," stated Kumar.

For last six months, Kumar said, security in Goa was on alert and they had taken
up intensive exercise in the state to avoid any terrorist attack.

"Last night's arrest is a fall-out of our painstaking exercise," Kumar said.

He said that Tarique's involvement in any other terror incidents elsewhere in
the country and his motives in Goa would be revealed only after thorough
investigations.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0851 gmt 11 Mar 06

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The News of the World (England)

                             March 12, 2006 Sunday

City's terror at cabbie attacks

LENGTH: 38  words


CABBIES in Nottingham are refusing to work after dark following a spate of knife
attacks by muggers posing as fares.

Cops believe a gang is targeting drivers. Five inner -city "no-go areas" have
now been identified by taxi bosses.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             March 12, 2006 Sunday

NHS terror attack 'warning'

BYLINE: By Derek Lambie

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 203  words


HEALTH bosses have admitted the NHS would struggle to cope with a terrorist
atrocity in Scotland and would be "severely challenged" by an attack.

Officials say a major catastrophe, similar to the London bombings, would put a
great strain on resources.

Harry Scott, National Emergencies Planning Officer with NHS Scotland, will tell
a conference health staff would face an "unknown" quantity in a real attack.

Speaking ahead of the Emergency Planning in Scotland - New Threats, New
Responsibilities conference being held in Edinburgh, on Tuesday, he said: "The
NHS has demonstrated on several occasions that it can provide an effective
response to major emergencies. There are, however, those which would severely
challenge the ability to respond."

Ministers, council leaders, and members of the emergency services will be at the
conference.

Deputy Justice Minister Hugh Henry is expected to tell delegates that it is time
to move away from the "Cinderella treatment" of emergency planning in Scotland,
with too many authorities having failed to address the issue.

Brian Sweeney, chief officer of Strathclyde Fire and Rescue, will address the
conference on how the lessons of the Stockline factory blast can be put into
practice.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SWEENEY: Address

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 13, 2006 Monday

Jordanian court convicts five men for plotting terror attacks

LENGTH: 425 words


Text of report in English by Rana Husayni headlined "Four men receive 10-year
prison terms for plotting attacks", published by Jordan Times newspaper on 13
March

Amman: The State Security Court (SSC) on Sunday [12 March] sentenced four men to
10 years in prison each after convicting them of plotting attacks against
hotels, tourist sites and security officers in 2005.

The tribunal first handed down the death penalty to Usamah Abu-Hazim, Hatim
al-Nsur, Muhammad Arabiyat and Yazan al-Haliq, but immediately commuted the
sentence to 10 years imprisonment for each defendant, "to give them a second
chance in life".

A fifth defendant, Muhammad Qutayshat, who is at large, received a life
sentence.

The court also convicted the defendants of conspiracy to carry out terrorist
attacks and possessing illegal explosives with illicit intent.

"I am really shocked and disappointed with this harsh and unjust verdict and I
plan to appeal it," the defence attorney, Hikmat Rawashdah, told The Jordan
Times yesterday.

Rawashdah charged that the court ignored all the evidence "submitted by the
defence team, which proved that the defendants confessed under torture and
duress and were denied legal representation during interrogation".

The five defendants were friends, according to the charge sheet, and in 1999
Al-Haliq travelled to Syria to study there and met with individuals who promised
to help him infiltrate into Iraq and fight there.

Abu-Hazim went to Syria four years later and also met someone who said he would
facilitate his entry to Iraq to fight there, the charge sheet added.

Abu-Hazim returned to Jordan and asked Al-Nsur and Arabiyat to join them, the
charge sheet added.

Al-Nsur then infiltrated into Iraq in mid-2003, where he met with Qutayshat and
trained on the use of weapons, explosives and detonators, the charge sheet
added.

In September 2004, Abu-Hazim travelled to Syria and received training on
explosives and also managed to smuggle detonators when he returned to the
kingdom the same month, the charge sheet said.

Meanwhile, Al-Haliq went to Lebanon in January 2005, where he received training
on the use of guns, machine guns and explosives, after which he returned to the
kingdom, said the charge sheet.

The group then decided to target three luxury hotels frequented by tourists,
General Intelligence Department (GID) officers and tourist sites, the charge
sheet added.

The four men were arrested in February 2005 before carrying out any of their
alleged plans, according to the charge sheet.

Source: Jordan Times, Amman, in English 13 Mar 06

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 13, 2006 Monday
                                 First Edition

Pakistan accused of Afghan terror attack

BYLINE: By Kim Sengupta in Kabul

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 605 words


The head of the upper-house of the Afghan parliament has accused the Pakistani
secret service of being behind a suicide bombing which injured him and kiled
four other people in Kabul.

The attack came during a weekend of violence in which four US servicemen died in
the deadliest roadside bomb attack on Amer-icans in a month and six Afghan
policemen were killed, two of them beheaded, after being abducted from their
homes. Elsewhere an armed gang abducted four Albanians working for a German
company and their four Afghan bodyguards.

The charge against Pakistan by Sibghatullah Mu-jaddedi, a former president of
the country, who is now leading a reconciliation programme with the Taliban, is
the latest round in bitter feud between the two countries over insurgent attacks
in Afghanistan.

President Hamid Karzai has claimed that senior Taliban figures, including the
former head Mullah Mohammed Omar, are living in Pakistan and using the country
as a base to infiltrate fighters across the border. His officials accuse the
Pakistani intelligence sere-vice, ISI, of recruiting and training suicide
bombers.

Pakistan's foreign ministry spokeswoman, Tas-nim Aslam, dismissed Mr Mujaddedi's
allegations as baseless. President Pervez Musharraf has said that President
Karzai is "oblivious" to conspiracy against Pakistan by the Afghan defence and
foreign ministries. He has also insisted that a dossier presented to him by
President Karzai detailing the Taliban presence in Pakistan was out of date.

Yesterday's suicide attack took place in the heart of the Afghan capital while
Mr Mujaddedi was on the way to his office. The dead included the two bombers and
two members of the public including a 12-year-old girl. Dismembered bodies could
be seen lying on the bloodstained road in the aftermath of the explosion along
with twisted wreckage of two cars.

Mr Mujaddedi, who suffered eye injuries, claimed that he was the target of a
plot by the Pakistani secret service. "We have got information that ISI of
Pakistan has launched a plan to kill me," he said.

Appearing at a news conference with his hands heavily wrapped in bandages, the
result of burns he suffered when he raised them to protect his face, Mr
Mujaddedi said: "The explosion was very strong. For a while I couldn't see
anything. I was in the front seat of my car. I saw a big fire came toward me."

President Karzai condemned the bombing as "an attack on the voice of Afghanistan
and clerics of

Afghanistan." He did not directly apportion blame, but said he had received
information two months ago of a plot to "attack important personalities in
Afghanistan". Mr Mujaddedi, an Islamic cleric, served as president for two
months in 1992 after mujahedin factions took control of Afghanistan after the
pullout of Russian forces.

He was appointed chairman of the upper-house of the national assembly, Meshrano
Jirga, by President Karzai in 2005. Mr Mujaddedi heads the commission
responsible for reconciliation efforts with the Taliban and the government
claims that several hundred of the former Islamist fighters have ended
hostilities since negotiations began.

Afghan officials maintain that the ISI, which helped create the Taliban in the
1990s, wants to sabotage the reconciliation process.

The bomb attack on the Americans happened in the Pech Valley in Kunar province.
The four Americans who died were travelling in a convoy of six when a remotely
controlled mine exploded under their armoured vehicle.

The attack raised the total death toll of US personnel in the Afghan conflict to
220. About a hundred have died in the past 12 months in a fresh campaign by a
resurgent Taliban.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sibghatullah Mujaddedi shows off his injuries at a press conference
after the bomb attack in Kabul rodrigo abd

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 14, 2006 Tuesday

Afghan commentators say government unable to prevent terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 355 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 13 March

[Presenter] Political commentators say the government has failed to prevent
terrorist attacks on senior government officials and leaders despite having
prior information.

The presidential spokesman has said that the Afghan government had taken the
necessary measures to prevent the attack but such terrorist attacks happen in
various parts of the world.

[Correspondent] A number of experts say ISI, Pakistan's intelligence service,
has been involved in all terrorist attacks especially in yesterday's suicide
attack which targeted the Speaker of the Afghan Senate.

The question is why the government of Afghanistan has not been able to prevent
terrorist attacks despite having prior intelligence reports, and despite the
presence of foreign and Afghan security forces. It clearly demonstrates the weak
security system.

[An analyst] The current security problem cannot be addressed by slogans but if
we are determined and honest in bringing peace and establishing security, we
should take practical steps towards strengthening the national army and police.

[Fahim Dashty, editor of Kabul Weekly] I think it is clear to our people who are
behind these attacks, obviously the Taleban, Al-Qai'dah, religious groups, and
political circles or as Mr Mojaddedi has said, the ISI of Pakistan.

[Correspondent] Presidential Spokesman Mohammad Karim Rahimi said such terrorist
attacks are predictable.

[Karim Rahimi] We had received reports that terrorist and suicide attacks would
be carried out against senior government officials and spiritual leaders. We had
taken the necessary measures but of course there was the possibility of one or
two attacks.

[Correspondent] When asked if Pakistan continues to fight terrorists the way it
is doing now, what measures the government of Afghanistan would take, he said
Afghanistan was looking forward to the further cooperation of the Pakistani
government.

Mr Karim Rahimi's remarks were made at a time when most of our people believe
that Pakistan has always been undermining the security situation.

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 13 Mar 06

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 14, 2006 Tuesday

Religious council of west Afghanistan says Pakistan behind terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 373 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Sada-ye Jawan Radio on 14 March

[Presenter] The Council of Religious Scholars [ulema] in Herat Province [in
western Afghanistan] have issued a statement condemning the failed attempt on
the life of esteemed Hazrat Sebghatollah Mojaddedi, the Speaker of the Upper
House of parliament and head of Peace and Reconciliation Commission of
Afghanistan two days ago. They demanded that neighbouring countries stop their
double-standard policies towards Afghanistan. Here is my colleague, Shoaib
Tanha, with further details:

[Correspondent] Mawlawi Khodadad Salehi, the chairman of Herat Ulema, in an
interview with journalists, did not reject the idea that a number of countries,
including Pakistan, were interfering in Afghanistan's internal affairs. He
described the recent unsuccessful attack on Hazrat Sebghatollah Mojaddedi, the
Speaker of the Upper House, as an attempt to undermine peace and security in the
country. The chairman of Herat Province Ulema added that the enemies of peace
and stability in Afghanistan target religious scholars in Afghanistan.

[Salehi] I can frankly declare that foreigners interfere in our country's
affairs. They do not want peace and security to be stabilized in Afghanistan.
The recent incident was not only an attack on Hazrat Saheb [Sebghatollah
Mojaddedi] but an attempt to disrupt overall peace and stability here.

[Correspondent] He warned that the enemy will launch more attacks on religious
scholars as they are working for the betterment of Afghanistan and striving to
attract members of the opposition. But he added that Afghan religious scholars
were never afraid of such attacks.

A resident of Herat Province condemned the recent failed attempt on the life of
Sebghatollah Mojaddedi, who blamed Pakistan's ISI [Inter Service Intelligence]
for it.

[Unidentified male voice] This was an ominous act. We are sure that the
Pakistani government was behind it. Therefore, we are warning Pakistan to stop
its double-standard policies. It should change its policies towards Afghanistan.

[Correspondent] A number of religious scholars have been killed lately by
unidentified people in several Afghan provinces.

Source: Sada-ye Jawan Radio, Herat, in Dari 1030 gmt 14 Mar 06

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 14, 2006 Tuesday

Surge in attacks due to pressure on "terrorists"; 452 arrested - Iraqi ministry

LENGTH: 233 words


Text of report by Iraqi Al-Sharqiyah TV on 14 March

The Iraqi Defence Ministry has attributed the surge in violence in a number of
Iraqi cities, especially the capital, Baghdad, to the pressure being applied on
terrorists in their areas of activity. Briefing journalists on the security
situation, Maj-Gen Abd-al-Aziz Muhammad, director of operations at the ministry,
said that the Iraqi Army had arrested more than 400 suspects in various parts of
Iraq.

[Muhammad, in progress] [The number of attacks this week] was 70 per cent less
than last week and there were only 576 attacks. [Words indistinct] There were 52
attacks on Iraqi security forces, 39 attacks on civilians, and none on the
infrastructure. There were about 99 attacks involving indirect fire in all
operational sectors. The terrorists' losses were: 30 dead, 16 wounded and 452
arrested.

In the northern sector, terrorist operations were on the fall in Mosul and
Kirkuk, but there was a notable rise in terrorist operations in Diyala, Ba'qubah
and Buhruz. In the western sector, there is a notable improvement in the
security situation despite the presence of some terrorist activity. In the
central sector, which includes Baghdad, there was a slight increase in terrorist
attacks, but compared to last week, there was a drop. [Video shows the major
general addressing journalists]

Source: Al-Sharqiyah, Baghdad, in Arabic 1910 gmt 14 Mar 06

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                            March 14, 2006, Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

House attack terror

BYLINE: Gareth Lightfoot

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 339 words


Three men have all denied carrying out a terrifying attack on a Teesside house.

Bernard Sharkey, Kevin Chapman and Michael McKay are accused of smashing windows
and shouting death threats at a house on Ann Street, South Bank, on October 30
last year.

They all told a Teesside Crown Court jury yesterday they were not in the street
that night, and denied all of the allegations.

McKay, 21, who it is claimed shoved a Samurai sword through the house front
door, said he was out drinking.

He denied his Vauxhall Vectra was the group's getaway vehicle.

He added that the sword found by police at the house where he was arrested was
not his and he had never used it.

Chapman, 21, said he was at his girlfriend's home that night, and denied
involvement in a perceived drug deal.

The prosecution said Marc Chamberlain, a visitor to the Ann Street house,
punched Chapman in the face after seeing the alleged deal, sparking the violence
by the three.

Bernard Sharkey, 28, denied visiting the house armed with a baseball bat or,
shortly afterwards in Grangetown, driving at Mr Chamberlain, pointing a sawn-off
shotgun at him and saying: "No one messes with my dealer."

"There's no truth in that whatsoever," he said.

He said he spent time with his son that weekend, then bought some drugs and went
back to his parents' house.

He admitted he used to deal drugs to feed his heroin and crack cocaine habits,
but had nothing to do with dealing since his release from prison.

He was picked out at an identity parade by three witnesses, two of whom he said
he had had trouble with before.

When asked whether he had been "fitted up", he said: "Well something's gone on,
because I've had nothing to do with that incident whatever."

Sharkey and McKay, both of Bolckow Road, Grangetown, and Chapman, of Oliver
Street, Middlesbrough, all deny property damage, affray and making a threat to
kill.

Sharkey and McKay deny having offensive weapons, and Sharkey denies dangerous
driving, possessing a firearm when prohibited and with intent to cause fear of
violence.

Proceeding

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gloucester Citizen

                             March 14, 2006 Tuesday

Teenager's terror at 'race abuse' attack

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 500 words


A Terrified city teenager has told how she was assaulted and showered in racial
abuse as she walked home from work in broad daylight.

The 17-year-old care worker was grabbed by the throat and pushed up against a
wall while racist language was being shouted at her.

The horrifying attack happened just after noon on Friday as the teenager, who
does not want to be named for fear of reprisals, walked in Denmark Road.

She escaped without any serious physical injury as her attacker ran away into
Denmark Road, but the ordeal left her and her family shaken and very angry.

"It was very frightening. I didn't really know what was happening," said the
Kingsholm youngster who goes to college in the city.

"I was just walking along and this man appeared, I thought he was going to walk
past but he grabbed me.

"He put his hands around my throat and started shouting racial abuse at me. It
was horrible."

The family claims police took almost seven hours to respond to the 999 call and
they had to take her to Gloucestershire Royal Hospital for treatment for shock,
after the police failed to react.

And now they have lodged a complaint against the force, which claims to have a
zero-tolerance approach to hate crimes in the city.

The teenager said: "When the police did arrive they were very sympathetic but I
don't think I should have had to wait all that time for a response."

The victim's father was so angry he  signed an official complaint form at 8pm on
Friday when police finally arrived.

He added: "The police here are supposed to have a zero tolerance culture to
racial crimes, but it really does not seem like it to me.

"My daughter needed help and they said they were too busy to do anything. It's
bad enough she had to go through the horrific attack but to be ignored by the
police is disgusting."

Ahmed Bham,  spokesman for the Asian community in Gloucester, said more support
was needed for people who are subject to hate crimes.

He added: "I think it is very important hate crimes are taken seriously by the
police and other bodies.

"The family and the victim need to be supported throughout what is often a very
distressing time.

"It is important that there are other groups out there to help people so they
are not simply relying on the police, which often isn't good enough."

Police spokeswoman Zoe Young said: "In this case the incident was reported to
police 10 minutes after it had taken place. It was not deemed necessary for an
immediate police response, as the offender had left the scene and the victim was
no longer in any immediate danger and had a member of her family with her.

"Due to other incidents taking place at the time it was not possible for an
officer to attend as soon as we would have liked, but details of the assault
were taken at the earliest possible opportunity and complaints made in relation
to this incident are actively being investigated.

"This was obviously a very distressing incident and we would appeal to anyone
who may have been in the area at the time to contact police."

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 The Gloucester Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ashfield Today

                                 March 16, 2006

Charity golf day in memory of London terror attack victim

LENGTH: 463 words


PREPARATIONS are in full swing for a charity golf tournament to celebrate the
life of Adrian Johnson, the Sutton man killed in the 7th July terror attacks.

Friends, family and workmates will tee off at Ramsdale Park Golf Centre near
Calverton on 12th May to remember the much-loved dad-of-two and raise cash for
the charitable trust set up in his name.

The idea for the fundraising competition was first mentioned at Adrian's funeral
and since then his parents Owen and Ann, of Skegby, have been driving it
forward.

Owen (60) told Chad this week: "We are going to make it a fun day, a celebration
of Adrian's life. We do not want it to be all doom and gloom."

Adrian was an avid golfer and played regularly with his dad ? but it is only
recently that Owen has felt able to pick up his clubs again.

"I have started to enjoy golf again, but still the memories are there," he said.
"Adrian was not a daddy's boy, but he was my best friend as well as my son."

The father and son were so close that Owen admits he has found it too tough to
return to many of the places they used to go together ? meaning he has given up
his job at London fashion firm Burberry, where they both used to work, and no
longer goes to watch Mansfield Town at Field Mill, where they were both season
ticket holders.

But both Owen and Ann say organising the golf tournament in memory of their son
has proved to be a therapeutic exercise.

Said Ann (58): "Adrian was a devoted family man and we always did things
together as a family. He was a gentle person, very laid back, and people really
warmed to him."

She says one of her most precious memories of her son is a trip to Rome he had
arranged for the two of them in May 2004, and the mother and son had hoped to
also enjoy a break in Paris.

Owen and Ann hope the golf tournament, which takes place three days after what
would have been Adrian's 38th birthday, could raise as much as £20,000 for the
Adrian Johnson Memorial Trust.

There will be a prize auction in the evening, fundraising throughout the day and
businesses have sponsored holes for £100 a time.

Burberry are kitting out the players for the day and have also donated many
prizes, while other gifts include an exclusive made-to-measure shirt from
world-renowned tailors Savile Row, a short holiday in Spain and a golf break in
Skegness.

Adrian's widow Cathey this week said the trust is still working hard to ensure
all money raised goes to the right children, not only the bereaved, but also
those who have had to look after parents disabled by terrorist acts.

"Adrian made sure we would be well provided for if anything happened to him, but
not everybody is in the same situation and they are the people we need to find,"
she said.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 16, 2006 Thursday

Jordan court opens trial of eight nationals charged with plotting terror attacks

LENGTH: 352 words


Text of report in English by Rana Husseini entitled "Eight charged with plotting
subversive acts" published by Jordan Times newspaper on 16 March

Amman: The trial of eight Jordanian men charged with plotting subversive acts
against Americans, Israelis and Iraqi police training centres in Jordan opened
on Wednesday [15 March] at the State Security Court.

The tribunal immediately adjourned the session until next Wednesday [22 March]
because one of the defendants was not brought into the courtroom by the prison
administration.

The eight men, including three who are being tried in absentia, were also
charged with plotting activity aimed at undermining Jordan's relations with
another country and belonging to an illegal organization.

The five men in custody were identified by the prosecution as Ahmad T., 37,
Hasan A., 41, Abdul Hakim M., 29, Sami M., 33, and Sakhir M.

The remaining three defendants were identified as Haitham H., Ahmad Y., and
Nasri A.

The defendants decided to launch attacks against Americans, Israelis and Iraqi
police training centres in the kingdom following the US-led invasion of Iraq in
2003, the charge sheet said.

The men decided to form 10 cells for this purpose and called themselves the
"Mansurah Sect" [Victorious Sect] according to the prosecution.

"Some of the suspects used the Internet to lecture on jihad and the need to
fight Israelis and Christians in any part of the world," the charge sheet said.

They distributed CDs in the kingdom which contained material on military
operations against American forces in Iraq and speeches by Jordanian fugitive
Abu-Mus'ab al-Zarqawi, it added.

The suspects also distributed a magazine published by Al-Qa'idah network in Iraq
in mosques in eastern Amman, according to the charge sheet.

The prosecution also said that some of the suspects recruited several people and
sent them to fight in Iraq, which "harmed the relationship between the Iraqi and
Jordanian governments".

The authorities arrested five of the eight defendants in August 2005 before they
carried out any of their alleged plans.

Source: Jordan Times, Amman, in English 16 Mar 06

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Mansfield Chad

                                 March 16, 2006

Charity golf day in memory of Sutton terror attack victim

LENGTH: 479 words


PREPARATIONS are in full swing for a charity golf tournament to celebrate the
life of Adrian Johnson, the Sutton man killed in the 7th July terror attacks.

Friends, family and workmates will tee off at Ramsdale Park Golf Centre near
Calverton on 12th May to remember the much-loved dad-of-two and raise cash for
the charitable trust set up in his name.

The idea for the fundraising competition was first mentioned at Adrian's funeral
and since then his parents Owen and Ann, of Skegby, have been driving it
forward.

Owen (60) told Chad this week: "We are going to make it a fun day, a celebration
of Adrian's life. We do not want it to be all doom and gloom."

Adrian was an avid golfer and played regularly with his dad ? but it is only
recently that Owen has felt able to pick up his clubs again.

"I have started to enjoy golf again, but still the memories are there," he said.
"Adrian was not a daddy's boy, but he was my best friend as well as my son."

The father and son were so close that Owen admits he has found it too tough to
return to many of the places they used to go together ? meaning he has given up
his job at London fashion firm Burberry, where they both used to work, and no
longer goes to watch Mansfield Town at Field Mill, where they were both season
ticket holders.

But both Owen and Ann say organising the golf tournament in memory of their son
has proved to be a therapeutic exercise.

Said Ann (58): "Adrian was a devoted family man and we always did things
together as a family. He was a gentle person, very laid back, and people really
warmed to him."

She says one of her most precious memories of her son is a trip to Rome he had
arranged for the two of them in May 2004, and the mother and son had hoped to
also enjoy a break in Paris.

Owen and Ann hope the golf tournament, which takes place three days after what
would have been Adrian's 38th birthday, could raise as much as £20,000 for the
Adrian Johnson Memorial Trust.

There will be a prize auction in the evening, fundraising throughout the day and
businesses have sponsored holes for £100 a time.

Burberry are kitting out the players for the day and have also donated many
prizes, while other gifts include an exclusive made-to-measure shirt from
world-renowned tailors Savile Row, a short holiday in Spain and a golf break in
Skegness.

Adrian's widow Cathey this week said the trust is still working hard to ensure
all money raised goes to the right children, not only the bereaved, but also
those who have had to look after parents disabled by terrorist acts.

"Adrian made sure we would be well provided for if anything happened to him, but
not everybody is in the same situation and they are the people we need to find,"
she said.

l OWEN and Ann Johnson are organising a charity golf tournament in memory of
their son, Adrian.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Peterborough Evening Telegraph

                                 March 16, 2006

COURT: Victim relives terror of hammer attack

LENGTH: 456 words


A PETRIFIED teenager told a court how he was hit with a hammer twice before
passing out.

Daniel Flake (17) suffered a skull fracture and was treated at Addenbrookes
Hospital in Cambridge for six days.

Cambridge Crown Court yesterday heard evidence from Daniel, who said he was held
back by two men at the Queensgate bus station, in Peterborough, before a third
hit him with a claw hammer from behind.

He said he was with his friend Warren Gordon (17), when a red car sped past them
on Westgate.

The occupants of the car, alleged to be Mohammed Latif (19) and Jangir Ahmed
(20) and an unknown third man, then marched up to the two victims on March 30
last year.

Daniel, who was 16 at the time of the attack, claimed Warren was assaulted
before he himself was grabbed.

The teenager told the court he heard something crash into the back of Warren's
head and saw him stagger forward.

He attempted to get away from the violence and said nearby witnesses began to
scream as they saw the terrible incident unfold in front of them.

But Daniel was quickly grabbed hold of and said that Latif, from Craig Street,
Peterborough, stood behind him while striking him with a hammer.

He said he only felt two hits before he was knocked out, although Warren told
the court on Tuesday that he was struck three times.

Daniel told the court:"Warren was hit over the back of the head. He jumped up
and moved out of the way. I was standing there and I was pretty stunned.

"I then felt two people grab me by each arm. I was trying to get them away. The
next thing I remember is being hit over the head.

"I just fell to the floor. I just remember blackness and heard people scream.
I'm positive of seeing Latif come in and hit Warren."

Daniel had been at Liquid nightclub at a 'Nappy Night' for under 18s. There he
had got into an altercation with Shahid Latif, Mohammed Latif's brother.

He claimed Shahid Latif had swung a punch at him which missed, before bouncers
separated them.

He then walked back to the bus station with Warren before the incident happened
at 11pm.

Michael Smith, defending Latif, claimed Daniel had wrongly identified his client
as the attacker in an identity parade later.

In court, Daniel said he recognised Latif because of his prominent teeth, but
did not mention this during the original police investigations.

Mr Smith said: "I suggest that at the time of the attack, you did not notice
that he had prominent teeth because Latif, the man in the dock, was not
responsible for attacking you."

Both Mohammed Latif and Ahmed deny causing grievous bodily harm. Latif denies a
further charge of wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm.

The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             March 17, 2006, Friday
                                 Worcs Edition

Terror attack team praised;
POLICE: Midland officers honoured for their role in helping Red Sea bomb victims

BYLINE: Mark Cowan CRIME CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 308 words


POLICE officers who helped victims in the aftermath of the terror attack on the
Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh have been honoured for their work.

Eleven Brits were among the 88 people killed in the triple attacks when al
Qaida-linked suicide bombers exploded bombs wrecking several hotels last July.

With police in London still dealing with the aftermath of the July 7 atrocity,
police in the West Midlands were asked by the Government to co-ordinate the task
of identifying the victims and repatriating their remains.

A national incident room was set set up within the Lloyd House police HQ to
coordinate the operation, code-named Rock, and investigate reports of those
missing presumed dead.

A disaster victim identification team was pulled together and experts used
fingerprints and dental records to put names to the bodies.

They were brought home within a month, easing the heartbreak of grief-stricken
families.

The force had already experience in dealing with such incidents, Supt Derek
Forest led a similar operation following the Boxing Day tsunami on 2004 which
left thousands dead in Thailand.

Today, nine staff involved in the operation were honoured for their work by
Chief Supt John Jones, who heads the crime support department.

Among them were Sheila Hendry and Donald Campbell from the Major Investigations
Unit and family liaison coordinator Lisa Newmarsh

She said: "This was a huge learning curve. Thanks to the hard work and
professionalism of family liaison officers across the country, the British
victims were identified and repatriated with sensitivity and compassion."

Senior investigating officer Tim Metcalfe said: "The investigation demonstrated
the ability of the force to undertake a national coordination role.

"The success is a credit to not only colleagues within the West Midlands, but
also staff from across the country."

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DESTRUCTION... Sharm el-Sheikh.' CREDIT TO THE FORCE... Sheila Hendry
and Donald Campbell from the major investigation unit and family liason
coordinator Lisa Newmarsh.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 18, 2006 Saturday

Terror attacks in Iran's Sistan va Baluchestan, Khuzestan provinces connected -
minister

LENGTH: 211 words


Text of report in English by Iranian Mehr news agency in English

Tehran, 18 March: Interior Minister Mostafa Purmohammadi said on Saturday [18
March] that the culprits behind the recent terrorist attacks in the provinces of
Sistan va Baluchestian and Khuzestan are the same.

[Passage omitted]

According to our reports, US and British security chiefs met with rebel leaders
and provoked them to commit the attacks, he told the Iranian Students News
Agency (ISNA).

Purmohammadi also vowed to pursue the issue and bring the adventurers and those
who do not have any human logic to justice.

National Police Commander Brigadier-General Esma'il Ahmadi-Moqaddam said on
Saturday that the armed bandits have filmed their crimes in Sistan va
Baluchestan and that the film will probably be aired by one of the foreign media
in a few days.

He added that the bandits had held some meetings with the British and the US
security services.

The bandits had killed the heads of innocent families in front of members of
their families who were stopped at mock checkpoints, he added.

The police and the intelligence forces are seriously pursuing the matter to
arrest the criminals, the police chief noted.

[passage omitted: Background]

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in English 1756 gmt 18 Mar 06

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 18, 2006 Saturday

Iran's minister says 12 still missing in Zabol terrorist attack

LENGTH: 135 words


Text of report in English by Iranian news agency IRNA website

Zahedan, Sistan va Baluchestan Province, 19 March: Interior Minister Mostafa
Purmohammadi told IRNA according to the Ministry statistics the number of
missing people in the terrorist event of Zahedan-Zabol road was not more than
12.

However, he added, "I hope the figure will be less."

The minister, who arrived in the province on Saturday [18 March] said the
provincial people's expectations on security is reasonable, but unfortunately
there are some problems in border areas.

He said that he inspected some border areas by helicopter and that he had seen
the border checkpoints adding though the border guards have been strengthened,
they should be reinforced.

[passage omitted: Background]

Source: IRNA website, Tehran, in English 2206 gmt 18 Mar 06

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            March 18, 2006, Saturday
                              North Wales Edition

We must jail terror chiefs for longer than 9 years;
Judge attacks his sentencing powers for international terrorist with al Qaida
links

BYLINE: MELVYN HOWE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 542 words


A JUDGE yesterday called on the Government "urgently" to consider providing
greater sentencing powers as he jailed a top international terrorist for just
nine years.

Mr Justice Fulford said Pakistan-trained Mohammed Ajmal Khan was a "person of
authority" in an organisation with "clear links" to al Qaida.

As "quartermaster" for the banned Lashkar-e-Tayyiba - the so-called Army of the
Righteous, which amongst other things opposes India's control of Kashmir - he
could call on millions of pounds raised by UK supporters for a shopping list of
arms and military equipment.

But the powers of punishment available to the court in such cases was not
sufficient.

The conspiracy the 31-year-old defendant had admitted carried a maximum sentence
of only 14- years' imprisonment.

"I consider the seriousness of terrorist offences of this kind is such that the
government should give serious and urgent consideration to the question as to
whether the maximum sentence for offences in this category are sufficient," he
said.

"Involvement in this kind of crime is often so serious and the consequences can
be so grave, that I am of the view that greater maximum sentences are needed to
enable judges to reflect more realistically the gravity of terrorism which does
not need me to say is of great public concern.

"In my view the court should have the option of passing a discretionary life
sentence."

Conceding that judges did have the option of imposing an "indeterminate" term,
the necessary criteria had not been met in the case.

Khan, of Ransom Road, Coventry, remained emotionless in the dock at London's
Snaresbrook Crown Court as the judge told him: "Terrorism is one of the
undoubted evils of our age.

"The toll in lost and shattered lives, the economic consequences and the general
misery that follows each and every terrorist outrage means that anyone who lends
him or herself to this kind of activity has put themselves in my view in one of
the most serious if not the most serious criminal category."

He continued: "You, Mohammed Ajmal Khan, in my view, are a committed terrorist."

He said Khan had not only trained in Pakistan and "travelled widely in
furtherance of your terrorist aims", but had available a significant source of
funds from an "unidentified but undeniably terrorist-related source".

Not only that, but he had used the assets available to him to cynically
profiteer out of terrorism and put cash in his own pocket.

The judge jailed him for eight years for one offence under the Criminal Law Act
of plotting between March 2001 and March 2005 to "enter into or become concerned
in an arrangement" whereby money and property was to be made available for the
"purpose of terrorism".

A further year was then added for "blatant" contempt of court in repeatedly
refusing to answer questions when called as a defence witness in the case of an
alleged co-conspirator subsequently acquitted at an earlier trial.

Khan smirked as he was led from the dock.

His contacts included members of a US-based group called the Virginia Jihadists.

His involvement with them, as well as repeated trips to the US to witness field
tests of certain equipment, meant he faced extradition and possible trial in
America following his release in this country.

welshnews@dailypost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pakistan-trained Mohammed Ajmal Khan, who as "quartermaster" for the
banned Lashkar-e-Tayyiba - the so-called Army of the Righteous - could call on
millions of pounds raised by UK supporters for a shopping list of military
equipment

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 20, 2006 Monday

Parties attack Georgian government over "political terror" against opposition MP

LENGTH: 567 words


Text of report by Georgian Imedi TV on 20 March

[Presenter] Political terror, another act of provocation on behalf of the
authorities and an attempt by the authorities to divert public attention away
from the campaign against [Interior Minister] Vano Merabishvili. This is how
opposition parties have described the situation with respect to [MP] Valeri
Gelashvili. The authorities' action amounts to crude interference in
parliamentary work. If the parliamentary majority expels Valeri Gelashvili from
parliament they will meet with a radical response.

[Koba Davitashvili, MP, chair of the Conservative Party, addressing a briefing]
These incidents will bring us even closer to each other. We will stand shoulder
to shoulder with each other and will continue our joint fight against the regime
of political terror and political revenge in the country.

[Tinatin Khidasheli, member of the Republican Party] With Vano Merabishvili's
errand boys, [mayor] Gigi Ugulava, [MP] Giga Bokeria and [MP] Bidzina Bregadze,
carrying out this attack on the opposition everything is clear. They owe the
minister and want to do something quickly to wash off the dirt the public has
rightly thrown at him.

[Gia Tortladze, MP, chair of the political council of Georgia's Way] This is
another attempt, another act of provocation against the opposition. This is
crude interference in parliamentary life. The mayor crudely interfered in our
life and openly accused an MP. This is unheard of. His reputation and the
presumption of innocence have been trampled on.

[Jondi Baghaturia, member of the Labour Party] We think that the authorities who
have been accused by the public of murder and other crimes are trying to divert
public attention away from this by staging these feeble spectacles.

[Davit Gamqrelidze, MP, leader of the New Right Party] If they decide to expel
Valeri Gelashvili from parliament as a criminal and bandit - I apologize for
using the word used today by members of the majority - we, the opposition in and
outside parliament, will take appropriate steps against the authorities. They'd
better stop this nonsense and solve crimes and sack Vano Merabishvili and
murderers from the government.

[Pikria Chikhradze, MP, member of the New Right Party] This is an attempt to
divert public attention away from Vano Merabishvili's, and the authorities' in
general, despicable behaviour and to launch a counterattack on the opposition as
a whole and the media.

[Davit Berdzenishvili, MP, member of the Republican Party] Speaking in
parliament Mr Vano Merabishvili mentioned the word honour twice. He said that
solving the assault on Valeri Gelashvili was a matter of personal honour for
him. He also said that solving the [Tbilisi banker Sandro] Girgvliani case was a
matter of personal honour for him. We have a government which does not have
honour. From now on they will not be able to even mention the word.

[Davit Zurabishvili, MP, chair of the Democratic Front parliamentary party] My
friendly advice to members of the government is to stop using foreign words.
They do not know what the word oligarch means [reference to the description of
Valeri Gelashvili by members of the National Movement]. I will explain, for
those in the government who want to know, that oligarchy means the rule by a
small group. Today the Georgian government is a genuine oligarchy.

Source: Imedi TV, Tbilisi, in Georgian 1300 gmt 20 Mar 06

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                 March 20, 2006

Teenager describes his terror at hammer attack;

BYLINE: Sharon O'Neill, Chief Reporter

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 462 words


A teenager who was brutally beaten with iron bars and a claw hammer has told of
how he feared he was going to die.

Despite undergoing surgery yesterday, and defying doctors' orders, Patrick
McManus left hospital - with his gowns still on.

The 17-year-old was viciously attacked in the Norglen Crescent area of Turf
Lodge, west Belfast, on Saturday just before midnight.

His mother Sarah, who had returned home from hospital after visiting her baby
daughter, born five weeks prematurely, found him lying in a friend's garden with
serious head injuries.

Still heavily sedated yesterday, Patrick said he could not remember much about
the attack.

"I feel sore. I saw two of them," he said.

Asked whether he had feared that he was going to be killed, he replied: "Yes. I
feel lucky to be alive."

His mother said that she hoped that when the medication wore off her son would
have a change of heart and return to hospital.

"He doesn't like hospital. The nurse told me he was giving off, wanted to go
home. I feel terrible. I wanted him to stay in," the mother-of-five said.

"I'll try and get him back to hospital when (the drugs) wear off. Maybe he will
see sense."

She said the teenager had also been attacked on Friday night.

"They chased him with a crossbow to shoot at him," she said.

The second attack the following evening - as her son stood with friends outside
a house - was even more vicious.

When Ms McManus returned from hospital, where her daughter is being treated in a
special care unit, she went to find her son to get the house keys.

"A car passed me - they (her son's attackers) were on their way to do that to
him. They ran into the garden and beat him," she said.

"His girlfriend tried to help but they beat her. It was unprovoked.

"A friend who saw it happen said he (the attacker) was digging the claw hammer
into his head.

"There are no words for it. They're just evil. They could have killed him."

Recalling the moment she saw her son, Ms McManus said: "I nearly died. He was
full of blood. You should have seen the chunks out of his head.

"His skull was smashed, his brain bruised.

"The doctors said that with the bruising there could be long-term effects,
epilepsy or seizures. Hopefully that won't happen."

Police have yet to establish a motive for the attack but said it was not linked
to the dispute in the nearby Ballymurphy estate following the murder of Gerard
Devlin.

Ms McManus said the area was becoming increasingly violent.

"They can't have a fair fight. They come in their crowds with weapons. It is the
way the estate is going," she said.

"In July my other son got a beating by a wee fella in the street. It's getting
worse. It is terrible."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2006 The Irish News Limited

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS


               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                             March 20, 2006 Monday

Three London terror attacks foiled, Met says

BYLINE: Martina Smit

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 400 words

DATELINE: This Is Local London


THREE major terror attacks on London have been foiled since the July 7 bombings,
a Met police chief has said.

Each time officers considered using the shoot-to-kill policy, but decided
against it, the Metropolitan Police Authority (MPA) was told on Thursday.

Operation Kratos, the codename of the instructions to shoot suspected suicide
bombers in the head, led to the death of innocent Brazilian Jean Charles de
Menezes at Stockwell Tube station on July 22.

'Not appropriate'

"MPA members will be well aware that the Met police have interdicted three
terrorist attacks in the capital since last summer," Assistant Commissioner
Steve House said.

"In each of the operations the Gold Command considered whether Operation Kratos
tactics would be deployed.

"It was decided they were not appropriate to the particular style of operation
that was being run."

Police chiefs gave a report on the Kratos policy to the MPA, the body that
oversees the Met.

The document confirms that the shoot-to-kill policy is still in place: "The
present advice is that there is no known alternative to firearms that will
produce immediate incapacitation." However, the Met is "reviewing less lethal
options".

'Suicide bomb' alerts plummet

According to the report, calls from people who thought they spotted a suicide
bomber in London have plummeted since straight after the July attacks.

During the first two weeks Scotland fielded 763 calls. The suicide bomb response
team was sent out 12 times and safely resolved all but one of the incidents -
the De Menezes case.

In August the number of alerts dropped to 292, the report says. Then it
continued to fall: 56 in September, 47 in October and 32 in November. Since
December there have been less than 20 calls a month.

Alerts tend to be low overnight, rising over the morning rush hour to peak at
noon.

Just one 'Islamic' suspect

In the past month the Met started monitoring the ethnicity of suicide bomb
suspects, as described by the callers. Out of 21 calls just one suspect was
described as "Islamic" and two as "Arab".

Seven seemed to be "Asian", four "dark European", three "white European" and two
"African Caribbean".

Police will receive further training not to stereotype potential suicide
bombers, the document adds. "It is acknowledged that, while there is no profile
of a suicide bomber, certain groups feel vulnerable to stereotyping by the
public and the police."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2006 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 March 20, 2006

Police bill for terror attacks inquiry nears £6m

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 306 words


Exclusive

William Green

THE cost of the West Yorkshire Police investigation into the July 7 suicide
attacks in London last year has reached nearly £6m, with the Government
providing a £1.6m grant towards the bill.

The force has told the Yorkshire Post that about £5.9m has been spent on
Operation Theseus, the codename for the investigation, so far with the ongoing
inquiry still requiring the commitment of "substantial resources". West
Yorkshire Police added that the £1.6m Home Office grant was "extremely welcome"
as it entered a year of severe budget constraints.

News of the cost of the inquiry comes as officers continue to investigate the
Yorkshire-based terrorists behind the suicide bombings.

Suspected ringleader Mohammad Sidique Khan, 30, was a teaching assistant from
Dewsbury and father of a young child but went on to detonate a rucksack bomb on
a Tube train near Edgware Road station.

Bus bomber Hasib Hussain, 18, was from the Holbeck area of Leeds while Russell
Square bomber Jermaine Lindsay, 19, spent his childhood in Huddersfield. Aldgate
bomber Shehzad Tanweer, 22, was born in Bradford.

West Yorkshire Chief Constable Colin Cramphorn said the force and its police
authority were grateful their representations had been listened to by Home
Secretary Charles Clarke and that he had written to him accordingly.

"The investigation is ongoing and still requires the commitment of substantial
resources to it.

"As a strategic force we have both the capacity and the capability to support
the Metropolitan Police Service in this operation and we will continue to do
so," added Mr Cramphorn.

Last night Leeds North West MP Greg Mulholland said he was pleased to hear how
seriously the investigation was being taken and added that it was right the
Government picked up some of the cost.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006

                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 March 21, 2006

Man stabbed bouncer with sword;
Terror at club as attacker said he'd 'chop up' steward

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 269 words


A CRAZED nightclubber caused terror among revellers when he stabbed a steward
with a Samurai sword and threatened to "chop him up".

Clubbers were forced to flee back into the venue after William Caldwell, 26,
tried to hack down the door with the sword.

Prosecutor Janice Green told Airdrie Sheriff Court that Caldwell, of Coatbridge,
had been in The Edge nightclub in the town's Main Street when he was spotted by
a steward, who realised he was "barred."

Caldwell was thrown out but returned later wielding the sword.

He repeatedly banged on the door of the club and demanded to be let back in.

Ms Green said: "Not realising he was armed, one of the bouncers, Jason Ritchie,
came out and was struck on the body with the sword.

"He recovered, ran back into the nightclub and shut the door, not allowing
anyone in or out.

"The accused ran after him and tried to thrust the sword through the door
shouting 'I will chop him up, I will kill him'."

The court heard Caldwell was seen by police in a nearby unmarked car.

They wrestled him to the ground and took possession of the sword, as well as a
knife found in his jacket pocket.

At Coatbridge police station Caldwell is said to have told officers "I'll get
off with it. I'll claim diminished responsibility".

The court heard Mr Ritchie, 23, had been unable to return to work since the
terrifying ordeal on January 13 this year and is taking medication for anxiety.

Caldwell was found guilty of assaulting Mr Ritchie and carrying an offensive
weapon.

Sheriff Morag Galbraith remanded Caldwell in custody.

He will be sentenced next month after the sheriff called for background reports.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gloucester Citizen

                             March 21, 2006 Tuesday

Terror gang attack 'one of city's worst'

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 739 words


These are the evil thugs who callously terrorised 18 youths in a single night of
rampage in Gloucester.

The gang of five young city men terrified the youngsters with knives, machetes
and a firearm in Quedgeley last November.

The incident has been branded as one of the worst in Gloucester's history.

Now the five yobs have been named and shamed by Judge Jamie Tabor QC, who locked
them up last week.

Nathan Edwards, 16, of Byron Avenue; Samuel Major, 16, of Slimbridge Road,
Tuffley; Ricky Andrews, 17, of Sapperton Road; Dean Regan-McGuinness, 20, of
Stow Close; and Keiran Pettigrew, 18, of Chequers Road were all sentenced to
between three and five years when they appeared in court on Friday. They all
admitted conspiring to rob.

It is thought they all belonged to the Blood Fist Crew, which operated out of
Matson.

Detective Inspector Simon Atkinson, who leads Gloucester Police's Priority
Policing Team, said the premeditation shown by the thugs was like nothing seen
before.

"We had a group of young men who have gone out deliberately in an organised way
to set about robbing people - that was their whole purpose," said Det Insp
Atkinson.

"They armed themselves with a machete and their sole objective was to terrorise
and rob people.

"It was very, very serious - it doesn't get any worse as far as I have seen.

"In terms of the pre-meditation behind it and their joint enterprise this is as
bad as it gets."

As reported in The Citizen yesterday, Judge Tabor branded the criminals as
cowards.

He said: "All of you engaged in gang activity of the worst possible kind.

"The events of that night were premeditated, violent and you showed no
compassion to your victims.

"You deliberately chose your victims for their youth and inability to defend
themselves - it was utterly cowardly. You armed yourselves to the teeth with
knives, machetes and a firearm.

"You traumatised your victims and showed them no mercy and you can expect no
mercy in return.

"This is one of the ugliest instances I have heard in this court."

Judge Tabor said he saw "no good reason" to protect the anonymity of the three
younger offenders who The Citizen would not normally be allowed to name.

Det Insp Atkinson said the lengthy sentences reflected the crime.

"The victims were very, very upset about it," he said. "You cannot negate the
impact on a young life of going through something like that.

"We treat robbery very seriously, it's the number one priority for my team.

"We will move very quickly on offences of street robbery and the sentence given
by Gloucester Crown Court equally reflects the seriousness of those offences in
our community.

"People potentially thinking of this have to think long and hard about the
consequences. Even if they're juveniles they can expect a lengthy period in
custody."

Detective Sergeant Steve Wood, who heads the street robberies unit in
Gloucester, praised the judge for lifting restrictions on naming the youths.

He said: "We totally agree with the judge's summing up. It was cowardly.

"We are pleased he named and shamed them. Hopefully it will act as a deterrent."

Det Sgt Wood said the gang had terrified their victims.

He added: "We need more people to come forward.

"There is a fear factor if someone is robbed of their phone.

"We are pleased with the convictions in this case, which resulted from a lengthy
investigation involving a considerable amount of hard work and dedication by all
the officers involved.

"We hope the convictions send a strong message to others that this type of
criminal activity will not be tolerated."

City police are currently involved in several initiatives to cut street robbery
and tackle the offenders.

At the weekend, officers will again be using hand-held camcorders to film groups
of young people who fit the typical offender profile - 16 to 25 years old, male
and often on bikes.

The idea is to deter potential offenders and gather intelligence on gangs.

But Detective Inspector Mark Chicken, from Gloucester Police's intelligence
unit, said the best way to reduce robberies is to avoid becoming a victim.

"People need to pay attention to their personal safety when out in the town," he
said.

"It's quite easy to forget how much value you carry around with iPods and mobile
phones and we need to keep reminding people to keep their valuables hidden and
safe.

"Also, they need to pay attention to their personal safety when out because you
are even more of a target when you've been drinking."

Comment - Page 10

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 The Gloucester Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                             March 21, 2006 Tuesday

Attack terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 54 words


A WOMAN was raped by a man who had earlier sexually assaulted her.

The 22-year-old was attacked in the Burton Road area of Withington at around 4am
on Saturday.

Police say the man first spoke to her as she walked down Copson Road, when he
was holding a white take-away wrapper.

Anyone with information should contact 0161 856 6152.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 22, 2006 Wednesday

Reforms introduced to Afghan police in reaction to terror attacks

LENGTH: 258 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 21 March

[Presenter] Zarar Ahmad Moqbel, the acting interior minister, has said in an
exclusive interview with Tolo television that in 1385 [year beginning 21 March]
the Afghan police will be equipped with modern weapons to help them in the
counter-terrorism campaign.

[Correspondent] The acting interior minister added that the increase in attacks
against the government did not mean that the police were weak. He said that the
process of reforming the police at the Interior Ministry was the main step to
open the way to meritocracy. He added that officials appointed in line with the
reform process would receive higher salaries.

In response to a question as to why provincial police chiefs were not appointed
in line with the principle of meritocracy, Zarar Ahmad Moqbel said:

[Zarar Moqbel] The Ministry of Interior is aware of the problem. The reform
process is the main approach towards appointing competent leaders in the police
forces. The lack of such a process is one of the reasons for security problems
and public complaints in the provinces.

The second and most important issue is that some [security] commanders are from
the same province where they work and they can abuse their influence to impose
their own interests on others and this weakens the rule of the law in the
provinces.

Law enforcement is the responsibility of the police and we need to have people
in the provinces who respect the law and value the importance of law
enforcement.

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 21 Mar 06

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 22, 2006 Wednesday

Italian Left alarmed by minister's remarks on terror attacks, Iran - paper

LENGTH: 554 words


Text of unattributed report, entitled "Martino: I don't rule out attacks in
run-up to election contest", published by Italian newspaper La Stampa website on
21 March

Rome: Attacks in Italy in the run-up to the elections? "It is a possibility
which cannot be ruled out." Defence Minister Antonio Martino gave a cautious
reply to a direct question ("What if the Islamic terrorists were to place a bomb
over here, in the run-up to the elections, in order to induce us to leave
Iraq?"). But he did not feel able to be reassuring at all costs. "What happened
in Spain - he said - has taught us that international terrorism loves to
influence the political outcomes of our democratic contests. But no Italian
worthy of that name would react to an attack by calling for our soldiers to flee
from Iraq. If this were to happen, it would unite the country again, without any
hesitation."

Martino's response caused a great deal of alarm among the pacifist left wing:
Communist Renewal and the [Party of the] Italian Communists [PDCI] immediately
called for clarification. Bobo Craxi, of the Socialists, also took issue: "Is
the minister's comment an invention, a forecast, a real alert, or a cynical
attempt to exploit the fear of the public at large for electoral purposes? The
defence minister states that 'terrorism loves to influence free elections': but
I believe that this love is only reciprocated by Martino, if he does not provide
information, in a definite and timely way, about the reasons for this prophesy,
first and foremost to parliament."

The pacifists will be even more alarmed when they find out about the defence
minister's position with regard to the Iran crisis: "Our government - he said -
will make efforts to see to it that with Iran the path of diplomacy is explored
all the way, but if this were not to be successful we will shoulder the
responsibilities which a major country must have." Responsibilities: in military
and political jargon, this means that, if the Americans were one day to decide
to wage war on Tehran, a centre-right government would not be opposed in a
prejudicial way.

Yet, at their televised head-to-head last week, [centre-Left leader Romano]
Prodi and [Prime Minister Silvio] Berlusconi were only in agreement on one
point: with Iran the negotiations have to go ahead, but the question has to
remain within the field of diplomacy. However, Minister Martino, who is a man
who speaks clearly, did not rule out the military option. He did so in a broad
context: "Anti-Semitism - he said during a televised debate with Umberto
Ranieri, of the DS [Left Democrats], a debate organized by the news agency Adn
Kronos - can only lead to great tragedies. And the current Iranian leadership is
anti-Semitic: it claims that it wants to wipe Israel off the map. Now the
Iranian leadership is doing everything possible to acquire the nuclear weapon.
What does it want it for? The international community has to prevent this at all
costs." He then went on to explain: "The Israeli defence minister told me: it is
a situation in which we cannot afford to make a mistake, it could be our last
one. We must continue with negotiations all the way, but we must also be aware
that it is not a foregone conclusion that they will be successful." [Passage
omitted]

Source: La Stampa website, Turin, in Italian 21 Mar 06

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            March 22, 2006 Wednesday

I fear masked knifeman will find me again;
LAWYERS PROBED AS FRAUD-BUSTER REVEALS TERROR OF ATTACK AT HIS HOME

BYLINE: JONATHAN BROCKLEBANK

SECTION: ED SC1 04; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 517 words


A TOP legal investigator who survived a frenzied knife attack admitted yesterday
he fears the masked assailant will strike again.

Leslie Cumming, 62, suffered multiple stab wounds after being set upon outside
his home by a man he believes had lain in wait for him.

As he spoke publicly of his terrifying ordeal for the first time, police issued
photographs of his horrific injuries.

Detectives believe the attacker intended to kill Mr Cumming, the Law Society of
Scotland's chief accountant who is involved in investigating cases of financial
malpractice in law firms.

But the knifeman fled when his victim grappled with him and tried to remove his
balaclava.

Police have since been able to establish a partial DNA profile of the suspect
and have taken swabs from many colleagues of Mr Cumming.

The accountant revealed that he now feared a second attack.

Mr Cumming said: 'I am very concerned about my family, as well as for myself.

' I f somebody returned, a member of the family could be in the wrong place at
the wrong time, even though it was me they were looking for.

'It's a very, very difficult time and I'm very happy the police inquiry is going
as well as it is.' Mr Cumming explained how the attack took place on January 24
in a lane at the back of his home in Edinburgh's plush Murrayfield district.

He said: 'It was very short in duration, very vicious and very violent. Out of
the darkness came a figure and he was immediately on top of me.

'Nothing was said. I was struck lightly on the face and thought it wasn't much
of a punch. Then I realised there was blood and there was a blade involved.

'I tried to grapple with the individual and get inside the swinging blade.

'During the next few seconds I stepped backward and forward trying to tear off
his balaclava and just grip his arms.

'I lost my balance and fell. In getting back to my feet, I was hit several times
on the back.' Mr Cumming struggled back to his house where his wife Mary found
him covered in blood.

He has held the top accountancy post at Scotland's legal watchdog for 22 years
and said he had given police a list of possible suspects but could think of no
one who bore an obvious grudge.

He added: 'I don't understand the motive for this vicious assault. It was not
justified by the fact I'm trying to do a difficult job protecting the public.

There is no justification for using violence like this against an elderly, quiet
accountant.' A Pounds 10,000 reward Pounds 5,000 from Crimestoppers and Pounds
5,000 from the Law Society has been offered for information leading to the
attacker's arrest.

The suspect is described as 20-30,stocky and wearing dark clothing and a
balaclava.

DCI Keith Hardie said: 'We can't rule out the theory that this is to do with Mr
Cumming's work with the Law Society.

'That's why we've taken swabs from anyone Mr Cumming had legitimate contact with
at the time of the attack.

'But if it's to do with solicitors, it would be very doubtful they would have
carried this out themselves. It would more likely be that they paid somebody
else or set someone up to carry out the attack.'

j.brocklebank@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LIVING IN FEAR: LESLIE CUMMING YESTERDAY HORRIFIC INJURIES: HOW LESLIE
CUMMING LOOKED AFTER THE ATTACK

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                            March 22, 2006 Wednesday

Flame throw thugs attack teen in terror assault

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 445 words


Traumatised West teenager Luke Wenman yesterday told how he was attacked by
thugs using an aerosol can as a flame thrower.

The 14-year-old from Bishops Cleeve, Gloucestershire, has been left scarred by
the terrifying and unprovoked attack, which happened as he was walking to a
friend's house with his younger brother and a friend.

Nursing bandaged hands and arms, he said all three were minding their own
business when the two older boys launched their sickening assault. "We saw them
on the other side of the road, " said Luke.

"Then they just came up behind me and the next thing I know they have lit this
aerosol can and it is pointed towards my face.

"I put my hands up and felt it bur n." What made the attack on Saturday, March
18, more sinister was the fact it was done in broad daylight and in chilling
silence.

"They didn't say anything until they ran off laughing, " said Luke, who recently
moved to the village near Cheltenham.

The Pittville School pupil suffered third-degree burns in the attack. His left
arm took most of the burning spray and his right hand was also badly burned.

He was treated at Cheltenham General Hospital for his wounds and it is thought
the weapon used on him was a deodorant spray.

Luke said he feels so traumatised that every time he goes out now he looks over
his shoulder because he is worried about what might happen.

He said: "I haven't been able to sleep since it happened. I just think Why me?"
His mother, Julie Taylor, said all she wants is justice for her son and for the
boys to be caught before they strike again.

She knows the horrific incident could have been worse.

"At least Luke had the sense to put his hands up, " she said.

"If he was younger he might well have been blinded.

"You don't expect this kind of thing to happen in Bishop's Cleeve.

"When it has happened to you, you go through all sorts of emotions. I want them
caught before they do it again." Police are appealing for witnesses to the
attack, which happened at about 11.45am in Station Road.

Force spokeswoman Katy Roberts said: "A 14-year-old boy has been left with some
nasty injuries and it is essential we apprehend the people responsible.

"This was a particularly unpleasant attack that appears to have been completely
unprovoked.

"This sort of incident is very unusual and we are determined to catch those who
did it." The first teenager is white, 16, 5ft 7ins.

He wore a red baseball cap, blue hooded top, blue jeans and trainers. The second
teenager is white, 16, 5ft 5ins, of slim build.

He wore a blue baseball cap, a blue hooded top and blue jeans.

Anyone with information can contact police on 0845 090 1234.

Or call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            AFX International Focus

                      March 23, 2006 Thursday 9:01 AM GMT

Suicide bomber attacks anti-terrorist tribunal, kills four

LENGTH: 109 words


BAGHDAD (AFX) - A suicide bomber blew up his bomb-laden car at the entrance to
an anti-terrorist tribunal in Baghdad on Thursday, killing four policemen and
wounding five, an interior ministry official said.

Earlier in the day, at least three more policemen were killed in car bomb attack
in the north of the city.

newsdesk@afxnews.com

afp/hjp

COPYRIGHT


Copyright AFX News Limited 2005. All rights reserved.

The copying, republication or redistribution of AFX News Content, including by
framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written
consent of AFX News.

AFX News and AFX Financial News Logo are registered trademarks of AFX News
Limited


LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2006 AFX News Limited

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             March 24, 2006 Friday

GO TO HELL - Holiday Brits defy terror attacks

BYLINE: Charles Rae, Consumer Editor

LENGTH: 191  words


BRITISH tourists seek out cheap deals in places hit by terrorist attacks or
natural disasters, a survey revealed yesterday.

Far from being put off, Brits refuse to be scared by bombers - and even say
terror targets can offer bargains.

An amazing 55 per cent of people asked said terrorist-hit destinations - such as
the Middle East and Bali - became quieter and therefore more attractive to
visit.

More than 30 per cent would visit areas affected by terrorism or a disaster if a
discount was offered. Another 66 per cent said it was important to support
stricken countries with tourist income.

And two thirds insisted they simply would not give in to terrorism.

Market research company Mintel also found that the British are becoming hardened
to the risks of travelling - especially following terror attacks in the UK.

The firm's senior travel analyst Richard Cope said: "They are more resilient to
catastrophes.

"It's likely that both Bali and Egypt, both recent terrorism targets, will see
British holidaymakers returning quickly."

Overseas holidays now outnumber those at home - with 45million foreign trips
last year compared to 41million within the UK.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                            March 25, 2006, Saturday
                                   1 Edition

Drive-by gun attack sparks street terror

BYLINE: Alan McEwen Crime Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 105 words


FEARS of a renewed drug war in north Edinburgh were fuelled today after a
drive-by shooting at a flat.

A gunshot fired from a passing car smashed the window of a home in Royston Mains
Gardens on Thursday night. The attack is believed to be linked to a violent
battle for control of the local drug trade among gang members.

According to neighbours, one of the residents, a man in his early 20s, was a
known associate of gang leader Marc Webley, 20, who was sentenced to 11 years in
November for the shooting of rival Peter Simpson.

Witnesses described seeing a car speed away from the scene after a shot was
fired from the passenger side.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 28, 2006 Tuesday

Danish imam denies knowledge of plans for terror attacks in Denmark

LENGTH: 687 words


Text of interview with Danish imam Abu Laban entitled "Abu Laban: 'Act of
martyrdom' Just an expression" published by Danish newspaper Politiken website
on 25 March; website subheadings

Danish imam Abu Laban has denied having any knowledge of terrorist actions. And
he feels misunderstood in a television report.

Imam Abu Laban denied today on arrival in Denmark from Bahrain that he had
knowledge of a person in Denmark with plans for a terrorist act.

It was just an Arabic figure of speech when he told one of his acquaintances
about a man who was going to cause "havoc" and perform an "act of martyrdom", he
said.

"We have enough issues to talk about. There is not need to create false stories.
This is an absolute misunderstanding," said Abu Laban when Politiken met him
yesterday in the Islamic Congregation's premises in Dortheavej in Copenhagen.

Saw programme later

A few hours before, he and five other Muslim leaders landed at Copenhagen
airport after taking part in a major Muslim conference in Bahrain.

He had already denied having any knowledge of a terrorist act when asked at the
airport. But several hours later, when he heard the recording of the television
clip where he talked about a person who intended to carry out an act of
martyrdom, he asked to comment on the matter.

"I have now heard the programme and remember that I had received information
about a person in Denmark who was trying to contact Amr Musa, who is the
secretary-general of the Arab League," Abu Laban said.

"There are many people who want to contact influential people in order to tell
them that the cartoon affair is a major issue in Denmark, in order to present
different ideas. That person wanted to contact influential people."

Just a figure of speech

[Drachmann] According to the television clip, you said he intended to create
havoc.

"This is making a story out of nothing. If your son is naughty and refuses to go
to sleep or go to school, you might say you are going to break his neck if he
does not do what you tell him. But that is just an expression people use."

[Drachmann] You used the term act of martyrdom. Does that not sound like a
terrorist act?

"But if the television station had consulted me beforehand, we would not have
needed to discuss this. The matter would have been closed."

[Drachmann] So you can say with certainty that it was not a terrorist act you
were talking about?

"Would you invite people to discuss terrorism at a cafe? There was a journalist
from France there. Everything was open. Nothing was secret. There is no reason
to exaggerate the meaning."

[Drachmann] But is the act of a martyr not a terrorist attack?

"If you say you are going to 'blow up this meeting', it means that you are going
to stop the meeting. Not that you are going to blow people to pieces. I am not a
terrorist. The media should stop this kind of thing. Everything is translated as
if we were working with terrorism, and that is not correct."

[Drachmann] If this had concerned a terrorist act, what expression would you
have used?

"If we hear of anything like that, we know who is in charge of security in
Denmark -the police - and they will be informed."

[Drachmann] Did you consider informing the police that time?

"This is not a terrorist. This is fantasy and an illusion about what can be
heard on the tape."

[Drachmann] What happened to the person you talked about. Did he get a meeting
with Amr Musa?

"I have tried to ask other people about that, but there are so many people who
have gone to Egypt, and I do not know."

[Drachmann] Where did you hear about this person?

"There are so many of us who hear so much."

[Drachmann] Do you think what he wanted to do was a good idea?

"That is up to people themselves. Why should I get involved? This is a free
country, and people can do what they want and meet whom they want. Everyone is
very involved since the caricatures were published."

[Drachmann] What was the name of the person you talked about?

"Believe me: I have just come home. I cannot remember. I am trying to remember.
Maybe, when I see the television clip, it will come back to me."

Source: Politiken website, Copenhagen, in Danish 25 Mar 06

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday
                                Scottish Edition

TERROR THREAT OF A.L.F. ATTACKERS;
Animal extremists 'divert police from anti-al-Qaeda duties'

BYLINE: by STEPHEN WILKIE

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 644 words


EXPERTS fear animal rights extremists who have mounted three attacks in a week
are putting the UK at risk of a terrorist outrage.

Vital police and security service resources are being diverted to tackle the
Animal Liberation Front which has claimed responsibility for a string of recent
incidents.

Terrorist expert professor David Capitanchik fears al-Qaeda suicide bombers will
find it easier to strike at targets in Britain because anti-terror officers will
have to focus their attention on the ALF.

He warned: "There is real and present threat from al-Qaeda and any other group
which detracts from the ability to counter that threat must be seen as highly
dangerous."

The ALF claimed responsibility for attacks at two deer parks and a greyhound
racing track.

They struck first in Auchertmuchty, Fife, cutting fences at a Red Deer centre in
a failed bid to set 450 beasts free, before causing GBP 10,000 worth of damage
at a park in Newmill, near Lanark, which backfired when eight animals had to be
shot to prevent them wandering on to nearby roads.

After the first incident, a red spray paint message on the road warned:

"ALF . . . WE'RE BACK!"

Militants also broke into a dog-racing track in Armadale, West Lothian, and
caused thousands of pounds of damage before daubing ALF slogans on walls.

Security experts say ALF numbers have swollen since the hunting ban was
introduced south of the Border last year, with many new members being hardened
anti-hunt saboteurs determined to rise through the ranks by staging high-profile
stunts.

Professor Capitanchik, who has held seats at several Scottish universities,
warned: "The ALF are a definite threat, if not for their own actions then for
the resources put into monitoring them.

"Police and anti-terrorist surveillance is very specialised work The men and
women involved are highly trained and the most important resource in the war on
terrorism in the current climate.

"When the country is under threat from Islamic extremists anything distracting
the security forces must be deemed a serious threat.

"These people are regrouping after the fight against hunting with hounds and the
diversion of anti-terror officers puts us all at risk."

He added: "Most of the ALF's direct action to date has been in England where
they have firebombed and boobytrapped laboratories and cars belonging to people
who work in them.

"If they use similar tactics in Scotland it will take a heck of a lot of
manpower for surveillance and counter-terror operations.

"We cannot afford to have our security forces' eye taken off the ball because
they are facing renewed campaigns by extremists working to a different agenda."

Detectives from the Strathclyde, Fife and Lothian and Borders police
investigating the three attacks are working together, using a database on ALF
activists built-up by Special Branch in England.

In 1990 the ALF firebombed labs at Edinburgh University's Veterinary School and
10 years later targeted the Roslin Institute, at Penicuick, Midlothian, placing
firebombs in five workers' cars.

And last October, the ALF threatened to target a Scots laboratory and firebomb
the homes of staff working on projects involving animal testing.

Masked thugs said they would attack the homes of staff working at the Inveresk
Clinical Research International labs in East Lothian if the company did not halt
the experiments.

ALF press officer Robin Webb last night denied the organisation was a threat to
public safety, insisting:

"In all its years of existence we have never sought or actually seriously harmed
human beings.

"It is quite the opposite, with our members themselves being seriously injured
or even killed trying to protect the rights of animals.

"The police and security services have always devoted outlandish sums to keeping
tabs on and taking action against the ALF.

"It is a false argument to claim we are putting lives at risk."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MILITANT DAMAGE: Armadale dog track, was attacked. Below, Professor
David Capitanchik

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS


               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                            March 29, 2006 Wednesday

Tube worker told to launch terror attack

BYLINE: Local London Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 174 words

DATELINE: This Is Local London


TERRORISTS ordered a London Underground worker to launch a suicide bomb attack,
a court heard yesterday.

Terrorist supergrass Mohammed Babar made the claim at the Old Bailey, where Omar
Khyam and six other men face terror charges including conspiracy to cause
explosions.

Babar said the Tube worker, known only as Imran, only refused the order because
he did not trust the others in the gang.

"We had numerous conversations about Imran," Babar said.

"The first discussion was that Mr Khyam was going to use him for operations in
the UK or Europe that he was planning.

"I asked Imran if he wanted to do it. He said 'no' because he thought that those
guys would never carry it out."

The orders were said to come from Abdul Hadi, the number three in al-Qaeda.

The Tube employee allegedly attended a terrorist training camp in Pakistan with
some of the men on trial.

The prosecution alleged the gang planned to smuggle explosives inside shampoo
bottles, cans of shaving foam and packages of dried fruit.

The men deny the charges. The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2006 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                            March 30, 2006 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Hoodie thugs in terror attack

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 122 words


Two hoodie bandits held betting office staff at knifepoint in a cash snatch bid.

Police are appealing for witnesses who may have seen them escaping from the
Ladbrokes office at Denton Park Road, West Denton, Newcastle, last night to
contact them.

The raiders, about 17, burst into the shop shortly before 6.30pm and brandished
knives at staff.

Dressed in hooded grey and blue jackets with their hoods pulled up, the raiders
demanded cash.

One tried to jump over the counter, but the manager fended him off by throwing a
computer at him.

During the attack the manager suffered a cut hand and forearm.

The pair fled empty handed and Newcastle police are appealing for anyone who was
in the area at the time to contact them on (0191) 214 6555.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Louth Leader

                                 March 30, 2006

Sheila's memories of terror attack

LENGTH: 392 words


SAD memories came flooding back to Sheila Williets after she read our nostalgia
feature about the day the war came to Louth.

Sheila, 74, of Little Lane, Louth, was just nine-years-old when an enemy plane
attacked the town on Saturday February 19, 1941.

Sheila's late dad George Skipworth was a train driver at the time.

Sheila said: "Dad was shunting trains at Louth Railway Station when he saw the
plane coming.

"He jumped off the engine and laid down."

At the time George was with fireman George Bradley.

She said: "He also jumped off the train to escape the bomb but a piece of
shrapnel caught him and took his leg off from the top of his thigh."

George was rushed to hospital but unfortunately bled to death before arriving.

He was 42.

Sheila said: "Dad had laid his mac over George before he went to hospital.

"I remember the police bringing the mac back to dad and how he sat down and
cried."

Sheila added: "I was sitting in the conservatory reading comics with other
children when I heard the bomb.

"My mum Rachel was serving in the grocer's shop at the front of the house when
it went off.

"People were coming out of the town and telling mum Louth Station had been
bombed."

George Skipworth died in 1950, aged 59.

Sheila still lives in the family house in Little Lane, which was the grocer's
shop during WWII.

CLICK HERE to email us your YOUR NEWS or your views on the news.

If you want to discuss this issue on the Louth on line forum

CLICK HERE

There's lots more on this website, just click on the links below:

LINK: See who's having a Louth BIG NIGHT OUT, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK: Need help finding lost friends, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK: Need help creating your family tree, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK: Looking for a lost pet, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK: TO SUPPORT OUR LOCAL LONDON MARATHON RUNNERS , JUST CLICK HERE

LINK: Looking for Mablethorpe and Sutton on Sea News, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK: Lincs Nostalgia, lots of pictures, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK: Going to the Lincs Coast - be safe with Seasafe, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK: Welcome to Mablethorpe and Sutton, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK: Welcome to Skegness, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK: Tide times at Mablethorpe this week, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK: What's On, JUST CLICK HERE

LINK:Transport information, JUST CLICK HERE

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 31, 2006 Friday

Australia says high threat of terror attack in Indonesia 2 April

LENGTH: 147 words


Text of report by Radio Australia on 31 March

The Australian government has updated its travel advisory for Indonesia, warning
there is a very high threat of a terrorist attack this weekend. The Department
of Foreign Affairs and Trade says it is receiving reports indicating that
terrorists are in the advanced stages of planning attacks against Western
interests in Indonesia.

A memorial service to mark the first anniversary of an Australian helicopter
crash is being held on the Indonesian island of Nias on Sunday [2 April]. The
service will remember nine Australians who died in the accident, which happened
as they were trying to deliver aid to Nias following a major earthquake.

Sunday has been given as a potential date for an attack, but the department says
attacks could occur at any time and anywhere in Indonesia.

Source: Radio Australia, Melbourne, in English 0800 gmt 31 Mar 06

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Reinsurance Magazine

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday

Briefing - Bird flu: why you should be worried.;
If the H5N1 avian flu virus mutates to be transmissible between people, its
effect on human life and business could exceed that of a terrorist attack,
writes Sara Bradford of Exclusive Analysis.

SECTION: Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1136  words

DATELINE: UK


Although the 9/11 terrorist attack completely restructured the global insurance
industry, the impact of a flu pandemic has not been tested yet, leaving the
consequences to speculation.

Theories aside, the H5N1 virus has now moved out of Asia and is rapidly marching
south and west. Scientists are closely monitoring the latest outbreaks in Europe
and Africa in a bid to raise the alarm should the H5N1 virus leap out of its
present mode of transmitting via birds to become transmissible between humans -
the first step toward a pandemic.

Estimates vary as to the human cost of a flu pandemic, with one UN official
speculating that it could cause the deaths of up to 150 million people. Most
experts have adopted the World Health Organisation (WHO)'s prediction of 2-7.4
million deaths worldwide if the H5N1 strain mutates. In the UK, the Cabinet
Office estimated in late 2005 that 600 000 people (or 1% or the UK population)
could die.

These high-end numbers reflect the worst-case and not the most likely scenario,
believes Cara New, chemical, biological, radioactive and nuclear expert at
Exclusive Analysis.

A deadly strain

Ms New stresses that although bird flu has infected humans throughout history,
the H5N1 strain appears to be the most dangerous. "It can cause severe disease
in humans; it mutates rapidly; and it can also mix with influenza viruses that
infect other animal species," she says. Ms New warns the insurance industry to
be aware of the virus' potential impact on the poultry and pork industry, as
well as the horse-racing industry. She points to an outbreak in China in 1989
where an avian flu virus infected horses, killing 20% of the infected animals.

According to Ms New, the risk of a human pandemic (which would occur if H5N1
mutates to be transmissible between people) is 'relatively low' at this point.
The virus has not shown signs of being more infectious or transmissible among
humans thus far, she explains. "Given the disease's impact on birds, the number
of human cases to date is very small, and there have been only 13 cases
confirmed outside of Asia, in Turkey and Iraq."

As more humans become infected by H5N1, the virus has a greater opportunity to
mutate to a form that would be transmissible between people. "Should this
mutation occur, the H5N1 virus could lead to a significant pandemic," she
predicts. While she points out that an H5N1 pandemic is not inevitable,
companies should still make contingency plans for a flu pandemic, as such plans
would also be useful in preparing to respond to other disease outbreaks.

Ms New explains that a flu pandemic would come in several waves of higher
infection rates, each lasting about two to three months, and would probably
continue for six to 18 months, with developed countries expected to recover
first due to their advanced health infrastructures. Ms New says the death toll
would likely be highest in Southeast Asia and other less-developed regions in
South Asia and Africa.

A vaccine for the new subtype will take at least three months to develop, and
drug developers will then need time to produce stocks sufficient to meet the
global demand. "It is likely that no one will have immunity for at least several
months from the time the new strain emerges, and they will still be susceptible
to infection for about two weeks after inoculation," Ms New explains. "However,
as the outbreak would likely start in Southeast Asia, scientists will be able to
start developing a vaccine before the pandemic hits other areas, thus
potentially decreasing its global impact."

Economic impact

Aside from the obvious health risks associated with a flu outbreak, Ms New
believes a pandemic could precipitate an economic crisis. The 2003 SARS epidemic
is a good template for assessing the economic risks associated with a disease
outbreak, she says. The Asian Development Bank estimates that SARS cost $59bn in
terms of business loss, with tourism and the consumer-goods sectors especially
affected. "The estimates for economic loss resulting from a new flu pandemic
would be many times that for SARS."

One of the key operational risks will be disruption to business in the event of
a flu pandemic, Ms New says. Factories and businesses may close to decrease
transmission of the virus, while the workforce will also be depleted. Many
employees will either be sick, caring for others, or staying home for fear of
contracting the virus. Expatriate employees may also be evacuated.

Poor health facilities in Southeast Asian and African countries mean that
disruption to businesses operating there will likely be most acute. The SARS
outbreak of 2003 is an indicator of what might occur: by April 2003, two months
after the virus appeared outside China, hotel occupancy rates in Singapore fell
to 20-30%, while 34 airlines cut their flights to Singapore, China and Hong
Kong.

Alongside these developments would be the strain to the healthcare sector, as
hospitals may struggle to cope with increased patients. Other first responders,
including the police, will also be affected, thus straining security forces.

Within the insurance landscape, brokers and underwriters have adopted the
practice of excluding cover for business interruption arising from flu
pandemics. This stance mainly arose from the fall-out over the SARS outbreak.
"If the appropriate exclusions are not relied upon, or if those exclusions are
not clearly enforceable, then the implications for the insurance industry would
be significant," Ms New believes. Workers' compensation is a much clearer risk,
she adds. To date, H5N1 has mostly infected people in rural homes with small
numbers of poultry rather than those near large poultry farms, but poultry
workers are still considered to be at greater risk of infection.

Total (product) recall

A less-common source of exposure arises in connection with product recall
coverage, should British poultry farmers or businesses have to recall their
products.

As to life insurance, Ms New pointed out that past flu pandemics, such as the
1918 Spanish Flu, have tended to affect young, healthy people, who usually
suffer less from seasonal flu viruses and other disease outbreaks. Referring to
a recent Insurance Information Institute report, she explains, "This will impact
life insurance companies, as many young workers will be covered by both group
and life insurance. Of course, a flu pandemic will also target many children and
young people who are uninsured, especially in developing countries."

Another possible risk that could develop stems from interruption to cargo and
aviation during a pandemic. "During the peak of a pandemic, ships and aircraft
from highly infected regions would likely be delayed or barred from entering
their destinations," Ms New explains.

"If quarantines are in place, trade and travel will be disrupted," she adds.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                 Copyright 2006 Timothy Benn Publishing Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             April 1, 2006 Saturday

We must put terrorist attacks in perspective

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 889 words


The first anniversary of the 7/7 attacks is primarily a time to reflect on the
tragic events, which cost the lives of 52 people and injured over 700 in London.

For those families still grieving the impact of the bombs, the aftermath will
doubtless remain as profound as ever.

A year on and the world remains an uncertain place in which to live. In terms of
terrorism a clear definition of the term is useful.

Terrorism is the use of violence or the threat of violence in order to gain a
political objective.

There are inevitable comparisons between 7/7 in 2005, and 9/11 in 2001 which
took place in New York and Washington DC.

Both events targeted international cities in the Western World as a result of
the apparent failure of foreign policy, and both implicated Al-Qaida which is a
very loose collection of terrorists often acting independently.

However, 9/11 was an act of global terrorism across international boundaries as
those who carried out the attacks were not U.S. citizens - whereas 7/7 was an
act of domestic terrorism as the bombers were from the UK.

This year also marks the 10th anniversary of the Manchester bomb exploded by the
IRA, albeit there were no fatalities.

Similar to the 7/7 bombings, the Manchester bomb was devised by terrorists from
within the national boundaries of the UK.

But unlike 7/7, the Irish republican terrorists had a set of clear-cut political
objectives, namely the unification of the island of Ireland.

In other words, the IRA wanted  to change the colour of the flag for the six
counties in Ulster to the Irish tricolour.

The 7/7 bombers had no such clear-cut objectives.

The only modern day comparison is with the Bader-Mienhoff gang who were extreme
German Marxists in the 1970s who had the vague aim of overthrowing capitalism in
the former West Germany.

The political objectives of the 7/7 bombers are also unarticulated and therefore
the bombings tend to appear as an act of wanton destruction.

However, from a business point of view, the economic effects of terrorism can
have a disproportionate effect on the city or nation involved.

What happens is increased expenditure on what the Americans call homeland
security, that would include special training for police, reinforcing buildings,
reassessment of the major incident plans by the emergency services and,
especially in America, people stocking up on food and weapons for self defence.

But this is all after the event. It is a reaction to terrorism rather than
prevention.

Therein lies the rub. The recent introduction by the current Government of
control orders for terrorist suspects and the wrongful arrests at Forest Gate in
June could be viewed as an over-reaction by the authorities.

But they were intended as preventative measures and many would regard them as
sensible, if misguided.

There is a terrorist threat in the UK, but it is generally off the radar. It is
like chasing shadows.

The perception of the terrorist threat is greater than the reality, the risk of
being involved in an incident remains relatively low.

You can never discount the threat, even here in our region.

Who would have believed that the IRA would have bombed Warrington.

They also bombed Manchester to the north and Birmingham to the South.

That is because they were displacement targets.

If security is strong around London, you have to find a substitute.

It is easier to hit that target, which is as powerful a target as central
London.

You find that with all sorts of terrorist activity. Terrorists are generally
very ingenious.

The economic impact would also be as great as an attack in London, because it
brings as much disruption and chaos.

Obviously there would need to be reconstruction, which in the case of Manchester
led to the regeneration of the Arndale Centre. The reason Manchester was
regenerated and Ground Zero in New York has become a tourist attraction, is
because it was a one-off.

If it was part of a sustained series of bombings that's where the impact is more
damaging for the economy, such as in Sri Lanka.

However, what is definitely a more substantial problem for the law enforcement
agencies is violent criminal activity.

The list includes drug cartels, people-trafficking, protection rackets, money
laundering, extortion and identity theft.

This activity also includes violence and the threat of violence but for
financial gain and not political aims.

People in the UK are much more likely to have their identity stolen by organised
criminal gangs than they are to be caught-up in an act of terrorism.

In spite of events such as 7/7, someone from Stoke-on-Trent or our region has a
minute risk of being the victim of terrorist activity.

But they face a greater risk of a violent assault, perhaps something as innocent
as walking home from the pub. To put it into context, you are more likely to die
from an accident in the bath than being killed by a  terrorist.

The reason is, technically, that an act of terrorism is not a measurable risk
like a road traffic accident is.

A terrorist attack is not even included on an insurance policy.

That's why some victims of the 7/7 attack are still trying to gain full
compensation from the Government.

So, whether the cause of the terrorist threat is the apparent failure of foreign
policy or not, it is advisable to keep the risks in proportion, in spite of the
horrific events that unfolded a year ago in London.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 April 1, 2006

Terror attack fears fuel demand for Coe's video surveillance

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 436 words


Ros Snowdon

Deputy City Editor


FEAR of future terrorist attacks is driving demand for video surveillance,
according to Coe Group which provides advanced CCTV systems to town centres.


Following the July 7 bombings in London, CCTV cameras have taken on much greater
importance in tracking down terrorists. "As a result of the July 7 bombings it
is important to be able to record and quickly access the video footage.

"There are now computers that can identify strange bags and strange behaviour
from the footage," said chief executive Andrew Wallace.

He added that the 2012 Olympics in London have prompted a thorough review of how
surveillance is carried out across London.

Leeds-based Coe already supplies CCTV surveillance systems to over 20 UK town
centres including Leeds and Bradford.

Yesterday the group said pre-tax losses over the six months to December 31 had
increased from £120,000 to £1.06m.

"The company had some difficulties and we have been fixing them. The group is in
a much better state than it was. We have refreshed the product and outsourced
manufacturing," said Mr Wallace.

Following the decision to outsource manufacturing the company's freehold
property in Leeds is about to be sold and the cash will be used to restructure
the balance sheet.

Coe is also looking at the possibility of a share issue in order to finance
future growth.

Coe is focused on three market segments - transport, urban surveillance and
heavy industrial applications. Its leading clients include British Telecom and
Siemens.

New project wins over the six months included a major new account in Spain with
Alcatel for the rail network, motorway projects in Luxembourg and Germany and
surveillance systems along parts of the M1 which are to be widened.

Over the period, sourcing problems at one of its outsourcers resulted in
silicone chip shipments being delayed from December 2005 to January 2006.
Revenues during the period were therefore lower at £1.63m.

Efforts to reduce the focus on larger projects had some success and the
percentage of revenues accounted for by the top four clients fell to 36 per cent
in the period from 53 per cent in the previous full year.

Coe wants to balance out the peaks and troughs in its business by being less
reliant on a few main customers.

The decision to outsource manufacturing, announced in April 2005, was completed
during the half year.

All manufacturing at the group ceased by September 2005 and all finished
products are now produced externally.

This has reduced overheads without significantly impacting on margins.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2006

                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        The News of the World (England)

                              April 2, 2006 Sunday

Suspected planned terrorist attack on F1 Grand Prix

SECTION: AUSTRALIA; NEWS AROUND THE WORLD

LENGTH: 36  words


AUSTRALIA-Police in Melbourne arrested three men suspected of funding a planned
terrorist attack-just hours before the start of the city's F1 Grand Prix
yesterday. Detectives say the gang had not yet selected a target.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 3, 2006 Monday

Terrorist plan to attack targets in France, Italy, Morocco aborted

LENGTH: 751 words


Text of report by Radhouane Hafiani: "Moroccans, an Algerian and a Tunisian have
planned to carry out terrorist scheme approved by Bin-Ladin", published by
Moroccan  newspaper Assabah website on 1 April

In coordination with the Rabat Court of Appeal public prosecution office, the
national judiciary police brigade this week circulated a search warrant to catch
an Algerian national called Amer Laarej. The latter is a member of the Algerian
Salafi Group for Call and Combat and is linked to a terrorist cell that has been
dismantled by the Moroccan security services. Among the members of this cell
figure a Tunisian national called Mohamed Ben Hedi Msahel and three Moroccans
living in Italy and in France, who, according to the Moroccan police, have made
plans to carry out terrorist attacks in Italy, France and Morocco.

Various border police stations have received photographs and information
concerning the Algerian national who is wanted by the Moroccan police. This
Algerian is known by aliases such as Ali El Jazairi and Slim El Ouahrani; he
moves about with a false identity and, according to information received by the
Moroccan national judiciary police, he lives in Italy and has links with members
of Al-Qa'idah organization, with the Algerian Salafi Group for Call and Combat
and with the coordinator of Bin-Ladin's organization in Europe, a man known as
Abu Hamza El Jazairi. He entered Morocco last February and infiltrated into
Algeria from Morocco twice.

According to investigations carried out in Rabat, the Algerian Amer Laarej,
whose photograph was found in the car of the Tunisian man currently under
arrest, in the framework of this case, had a meeting with three Moroccans
nationals in a cafe in Sale and he revealed to them the existence of a
coordinated action between the Algerian [Salafi] Group for Call and Combat and
illegal emigration networks to facilitate the infiltration of members of
terrorist cells from Morocco into Algeria.

In this context, a suspect under arrest in Rabat admitted that Amer Laarej had
infiltrated into Algeria for the first time with the help of a network
specialized in illegal emigration and, for a fee, the latter took him to
Maghnia, then to Oran then to a camp controlled by the Salafi Group for Call and
Combat.

Likewise, investigations conducted in Morocco with nine suspects revealed that
the latter had made plans to attack the American Embassy in Rabat with
explosives acquired by Amer Laarej alias Ali El Jazairi. The plan was for the
explosives to be placed in a tunnel dug under the American embassy, a feat that
would have been strongly echoed and would have had powerful repercussions
worldwide.

With regard to the acts of terrorism planned for by the Tunisian, the Algerian
and the Moroccan national Anwar Mijrar in Europe, the Tunisian said, during
police investigations in Rabat, that they included the blowing up of the
headquarters of the French secret service, a restaurant and a cafe frequented by
French intelligence officers, the underground train line No 14, the Francois
Mitterrand Library and La Defence Trade Centre in Paris. As for Italy, the
terrorist cell led by the Tunisian national in question had planned to blow up
the Bologna Cathedral because, it is alleged, it contains caricatures that are
disparaging about the messenger of God [Prophet Muhammad], may the prayers and
peace of God be upon him. The same terrorist cell also planned to carry out Acts
of terrorism in Denmark. The Tunisian man had charged the Algerian Amer Taarej
with the task of making the explosives.

Eight Moroccan nationals are on trial in the framework of this terrorism-related
case, namely Abdelghani A, Abdelfattah H, Abdelhak T, Lahsene M, Adel G, A.K,
Mohamed H and Said F. It is worth noting that Amer Laarej, together with the
Tunisian national, infiltrated into Algeria last February and there they met a
commander of the Algerian Armed Group, who handed them a letter meant to be
delivered by the Tunisian, Msahel, to the commander of Al-Qa'idah organization
in Europe, a man known by his alias: Abu Hamza El Jazairi. The letter makes it
clear that Bin-Ladin approves of the terrorist operations planned to be carried
out in Italy, in the other European countries and in Morocco.

The Algerian national now wanted by the Moroccan police read the abovementioned
letter and burnt it in Algeria but it was re-written by the Tunisian national
during his interrogation by the Moroccan police.

Source: Assabah website, Casablanca, in Arabic 1 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             April 3, 2006, Monday

Travel insurance policy covers terrorist attacks for first time

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 148 words


Travel insurance that covers holidaymakers against terrorist risks is on sale in
Britain for the first time. Costs arising from terrorist incidents are usually
excluded from holiday insurance packages but a new policy designed by
WorldAssure breaks the mould.

Among other things, the product will cover the cost of repatriating victims'
bodies.

Development of the product, which is underwritten at Lloyd's of London, follows
concerns over the perceived inadequacy of the Chancellor's £ 1 million
charitable fund, unveiled in last month's Budget, for British victims of
terrorist attacks abroad.

The only exclusion in the WorldAssure policy is for "nuclear, chemical and
biological terrorism". The company says that situation is uninsurable.

Promoters of the policy say that, in addition to the terror cover, the product
breaks ground by providing insurance against pre-existing medical complaints.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                             April 4, 2006 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Teenager fights off terror attacker;
Schoolgirl threatened by knifeman Police in appeal for information

BYLINE: By James McCarthy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 275 words


A TERRIFIED 16-year-old schoolgirl was dragged off the street at knifepoint by a
masked attacker.

She was forced into woodland in Tile Hill, Coventry, by a man in a balaclava who
held a blade to her throat.

The youngster fought back and managed to escape - but has been left traumatised
by the attack.

Detectives said the man, who was six feet tall, grabbed his victim from behind
as she was walking along Banner Lane and put the knife to her throat.

DI Stuart Bell said: "She was pulled to nearby woodland - Tile Hill wood nature
reserve.

"Clearly this is a disturbing incident that has left the young female victim
extremely traumatised. She managed to fight back, she kicked out at him and
managed to escape, and then he made off.

"We are keeping an open mind as to the potential motivation of the offence.

"We are trawling the area for possible lines of inquiry.

"The incident was very brief - it went on for about a minute or so."

West Midlands Police are keeping an open mind about the attack but accept it was
either sexually or financially motivated.

The victim told officers she could see her assailant was white through the holes
in his balaclava.

"He was also wearing black trousers and a jacket."

The attack happened at about 7.45pm, on Thursday, March 30, as the girl walked
towards Broad Lane.

She was returning home after missing friends she had arranged to meet.

Police are appealing for the owner of a dark saloon car left in the nature
reserve car park, which is near Woodlands school, to come forward to be
eliminated from inquiries.

Anyone with any details about the incident should call police on 0845 113 5000
or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: D33302_1 INVESTIGATION... Detective Constable Sherrie Barrett at the
scene of the attack. Picture: Richard Nelmes

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Insurance Newslink

                                 April 4, 2006

Actuaries calculate cost of potential US terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 60  words


The American Academy of Actuaries working with AIR Worldwide, have estimated
that a large terrorist attack on New York City could result in USD778bn in
insured losses- USD696bn in property and casualty losses and USD82bn in group
life claims.

The working group  has also predicted losses from potential attacks on
Washington and San Francisco, reports Lloyd's List.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: INL


                 Copyright 2006 OnlyStrategic Insurancenewslink

                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 5, 2006 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

BATH KIDNAP: MAN AND WOMAN HELD;
COPS QUIZ PAIR OVER TERROR SEX ATTACK ON GIRL, 6

BYLINE: BY JEREMY ARMSTRONG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 248 words


A MAN and woman were arrested yesterday over the kidnap and sexual assault of a
girl of six snatched from the bath in her own home.

The 34-year-old man was held after a police raid shortly after 7am.

A 25-year-old woman is also being quizzed on suspicion of perverting the course
of justice. It is believed she may have helped the man from Blyth,
Northumberland, avoid arrest.

Det Insp Jim Napier said: "A man was arrested on suspicion of child abduction
and serious sexual assault of a six-year-old girl. He will be questioned in
custody."

The breakthrough came 14 weeks after the girl, who cannot be named, was abducted
from her home in Willington Quay, North Tyneside, on December 27.

She was repeatedly sexually assaulted during a three-mile terror drive after a
man took her naked from the bath. She was then dumped in the snow 300 yards from
her home. She bravely told specially trained officers details of her ordeal,
outlining the route which the man took as he drove her around Wallsend and North
Tyneside.

Mr Napier added: "After being taken from the bathroom of her home, she was
driven around in a car and repeatedly sexually assaulted by a man who then
abandoned her in the back lane where she was found.

"This reinforces my view that we are looking for a potentially dangerous
individual who may have deliberately set out to abuse a child."

The girl is now back at home with her mum, brother, and mum's partner. The
family last night declined to comment.

jeremy.armstrong@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCENE: Bath where girl was abducted

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 6, 2006 Thursday

Interior minister denies risk of terror attack in Russia's Kabarda-Balkaria

LENGTH: 255 words


Text of report by Russian news agency Regnum

5 April: "There is no risk of large-scale terrorist or extremist attacks in
Kabarda-Balkaria. The situation in the republic is stable and under the full
control of the law-enforcement agencies," Yuriy Tomchak, interior minister of
the Kabarda-Balkar Republic, said at a meeting with the republic's religious
leaders on 5 April.

The Kabarda-Balkar Interior Ministry received many calls from anxious residents
on Tuesday and Wednesday [4-5 April], who were concerned about rumours of
possible terrorist attacks, he said. (Regnum's note: People were hastily
collecting their children from schools and kindergartens and were cautious about
visiting markets and other public places, security was stepped up at some
facilities.)

The minister thinks that the rumours were provoked by the recent redeployment of
interior troops on the republic's administrative border due to a special
operation in a neighbouring republic. Tomchak also said that work continued in
the republic to find arms caches and establish people involved in the [October
2005] attack on Nalchik and their accomplices.

Addressing the religious leaders, he expressed the hope for cooperation. "We
must not lose the war for the souls of our youth," he said.

Tomchak said that the priority direction of the police's work was preventive
measures.

"I consider prevention of offences but not retaliation to be the cornerstone of
our work. Police are not a punishment agency," he said.

Source: Regnum, Moscow, in Russian 0645 gmt 6 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 7, 2006 Friday

Italian minister announces terrorist attacks thwarted in Bologna, Milan

LENGTH: 518 words


Text of unattributed report, entitled "Pisanu: Two attacks thwarted in Milan and
Bologna", published by Italian newspaper La Stampa website on 7 April

Rome: "I can now tell you that a terrorist plan was supposed to be carried out
in our country and that our services' monitoring and prevention activities
managed to thwart it. The targets were Bologna's very central San Petronio
church and the Milan subway." Interior Minister Giuseppe Pisanu said this
yesterday on the sidelines of a Forza Italian rally in Cagliari, thus confirming
the disclosures made by La Stampa and other newspapers about the two attacks on
Italy thwarted by our security services.

Pisanu said that seven people had been involved in the plan, three of whom have
been deported and two arrested, one of whom is under close surveillance, and
another is being actively sought. This is the only difference from the
disclosures that have emerged during the past few days because, according to the
minister, only one of the seven Islamists is missing and not three, as was
thought.

"This operation is now definitely over," Pisanu said. "There was a terrorist
plan that was promptly identified, partly thanks to the valuable help of
friendly countries. As you can see," the minister concluded, "our system of
prevention, based on very close monitoring of the country as a whole and of
environments at risk, has again proved rather effective."

The group was supposed to strike before the elections, investigators say. "In
Milan, the attackers planned to cause death and panic, while in Bologna the
target was the 15th century fresco by Giovanni da Modena depicting Muhammad
being cast into hell, housed in San Petronio. Islamists consider the picture
sacrilegious."

The ancient Bolognese church was identified by the terrorist group comprising
Tunisians and Moroccans belonging to Al-Qa'idah for the Maghreb and the Salafist
Group for Call and Combat. But carabinieri antiterrorist investigators kept the
seven under surveillance, following them for weeks, day and night, until they
succeeded in discovering their plans.

Minister Pisanu's announcement at the height of the election campaign obviously
prompted political responses. According to DS [Left Democrats] Chairman Massimo
D'Alema, this "news is not unexpected. We live in a world in which this danger
exists and has a tragic impact on our societies. It is a risk that needs to be
averted by means of intelligence work. Our country has qualified structures that
have succeeded in serving Italy over the years."

According to Alfredo Mantovano, undersecretary for internal affairs responsible
for public security, "the operation against Islamist terrorism confirms that in
this instance, too, Italy's security system has managed to prevail, that is, to
identify potential attackers during the planning stage of the attacks".

A very different kind of comment came from Bologna Mayor Sergio Cofferati: "I do
not think this is news at all, but in any case I am pleased that the law and
order forces are able to avert threats to Bologna and Milan."

Source: La Stampa website, Turin, in Italian 7 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 7, 2006 Friday

Israel attacks "terrorist' car in Gaza, five said killed

LENGTH: 158 words


Text of report by Israel radio on 7 April

The Israel Air Force [IAF] attacked a terrorist vehicle in the Rafah area [in
southern Gaza]. According to Palestinian reports, at least five persons were
killed and six others were wounded. The Palestinians are saying that a camp of
the Popular Resistance Committees was attacked, as well as a vehicle that
arrived in the place. [Israeli] military sources say that the terrorists in the
vehicle completed training towards the perpetuation of terrorist attacks.

The IDF [Israel Defence Forces] is continuing to direct artillery fire to the
area from which Qassam rockets are being fired in the northern part of the Gaza
Strip. A military source clarifies that the IDF has no intention of
demonstrating restraint in regards to the firing of Qassam rockets, and will
operate in all the ways necessary to foil attacks and attempts to carry out
attacks.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1900 gmt 7 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Lancashire Evening Post

                                 April 8, 2006

Robbery terror in knifepoint attack

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post

LENGTH: 374 words


A knife wielding robber brandished a blade at terrified shop staff in two armed
robberies in Preston.


Police are now investigating whether the crimes could be linked, after
identifying similarities between the cases.


In the first case, on March 29, a white man in his 20s threatened a 44-year-old
Asian woman at GSN in Watery Lane, Ashton, with a long-bladed knife that had a
distinctive criss-cross patterned handle.


DS John Crichton, of Preston CID, said: "We deal with a lot of robberies but
most are without weapons. However, these two have come in fairly quickly and
this worries me greatly.


"We don't get many incidents where a weapon is actually produced, and although
the incident happened at opposite ends of the town, they are not actually that
far apart.


"I am concerned that members of public might get hurt if they resist this
offender. We would urge anyone with information to come forward."


The offender in the first incident was around 5ft 9ins. He walked into the shop
with the weapon at around 8pm and said: "Give me the money now."


The terrified shopkeeper, who was alone, ran from behind the counter and into
the stockroom, locking the door behind her.


The robber, who wore a black jacket with Nike emblazoned in white across the
front, made off with £300.


The second incident happened at around 8.50pm on April 6 at The Local off
licence in Tag Lane, Ingol.


A white man, between 5ft 3ins and 5ft 7ins, ran into the shop wearing a shiny
Lycra black ski mask with frayed eye holes that looked like they had been cut
out with scissors.


He almost collided with a shop assistant who had walked out of the store room.


He grabbed her with his left hand and pointed the knife towards the 45-year-old
supervisor behind the counter, demanding money.


He then let go of the assistant and handed a white plastic bag, to the
supervisor to put the money in.


She pressed a panic button.


The man snatched the bag, which contained £130, and ran out the door and on to
the car park.


The robber, who had a local accent, is described as having brown hair, wearing a
baggy pale bomber jacket, and dark trousers.


LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            April 12, 2006 Wednesday

Europe: Court indicts 29 over Madrid train blasts: Six face murder charges over
terror attack: Bombs made using information on internet

BYLINE: Giles Tremlett, Madrid

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 525 words


A Spanish court yesterday indicted 29 people for the Madrid train bombings that
killed 191 people and injured 1,700 others more than two years ago.

Six of the accused face charges of mass murder or conspiring to murder over the
attacks, in which 10 bombs ripped through packed commuter trains on their way
into Madrid early on March 11 2004.

But the investigating magistrate, Juan del Olmo, said most of those who planted
the bombs had blown themselves up when surrounded by police at their hideaway
outside Madrid three weeks later.

The attacks were carried out by a largely autonomous group of north African
Islamists and small-time crooks based in Spain and inspired by websites
supporting al-Qaida.

The bombers used information on bomb-making on the internet to build the 13
bombs they planted, said Judge del Olmo. The bombs were triggered by alarms on
mobile telephones and made more lethal by nails and screws packed around them as
shrapnel.

"The bomb is extremely simple . . . (and the detonating system) could be found
in any manual on electronics, terrorism or sabotage," he said.

The bomb ingredients cost no more than euros 54,000 (about £37,000), said Judge
del Olmo. The dynamite was stolen from Spanish mines and partly traded on the
black market for hashish.

Among those facing murder charges are Jamal Zougam, a Moroccan shopkeeper who
allegedly supplied the mobile phones used as detonators in the 10 rucksacks and
sports bags. Three bombs failed to go off, with two being destroyed by police
experts and one defused. The mobile phone in that bomb led investigators to Mr
Zougam and others, including a group of Spanish criminals accused of stealing
the explosives from mines in the northern region of Asturias.

Mr Zougam has denied taking part in the attacks.

One Islamist website popular with the bombers had suggested, in an accurate
analysis, that the governing People's party would lose elections three days
later if Spaniards were targeted.

The Global Islamic Media Centre website said the party's support for George Bush
and the invasion of Iraq was not shared by the vast majority of Spaniards and
that attacks on Spanish targets could force the government to withdraw troops
from Iraq.

The People's party of outgoing prime minister Jose Maria Aznar, which had been
leading in the opinion polls, lost the election on March 14.

The incoming Socialist prime minister, Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, immediately
pledged to withdraw troops.

Security analysts yesterday pointed to similarities with bomb attacks in London
in July. These were also "simple and inexpensive" and carried out by an
autonomous group of radicals, according to a draft government report obtained by
The Observer this weekend.

Britain's top anti-terrorist police officer, Peter Clarke, told a conference in
Berlin last week that, last year, investigators had come across the first known
conspiracy hatched entirely over the internet.

"I think it's the first time we've found a 'virtual network'," he said. "The
people concerned in it have been charged with conspiring to cause an explosion,
but we don't actually have any evidence they have ever met."

guardian.co.uk/spain >

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            April 13, 2006 Thursday

Judge in attack on anti-terror orders

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 475 words


THE Government's anti-terrorism laws were said to be in tatters last night after
a High Court judge ruled that a key element was an "affront to justice''.

Control orders were introduced after an attempt to hold suspects without trial
at Belmarsh jail collapsed following a challenge under the Human Rights Act.

The orders, pushed through Parliament at the last minute a year ago, allow the
Home Secretary to place individuals under house arrest, but yesterday, Mr
Justice Sullivan said the orders contravened the same act and offered no more
than a "thin veneer of legality''.

He said the orders under the Prevention of Terrorism Act 2005 meant the
"Secretary of State always wins'' and added: "To say that the Act does not give
the respondent in this case a fair hearing would be an understatement.''

His comments came as the first British citizen to be subject to an order, a
22-year-old man from Yorkshire who cannot be named, challenged it in the High
Court. The man was stopped at Manchester airport last March after attempting to
fly to Syria from where, security services claimed, he was planning to join
rebels fighting in Iraq.

The law allows for a review of the decision taken by the Home Secretary but does
not allow any new evidence to be submitted. Large parts of the evidence can be
sealed from the respondent and only viewed by a special advocate, appointed for
the individual by the attorney general, who cannot pass any information back to
him.

The judge said that amounted to an "affront to justice''. He added: "The court
would be failing in its duty under the Human Rights Act, a duty imposed upon the
court by Parliament, if it did not say, loud and clear, that the procedures
under the Act are conspicuously unfair.''

The control order cases involve individuals outside the group of original
"Belmarsh'' detainees. In addition, however, 29 foreign suspects, including some
of the Belmarsh detainees, are facing Government attempts to deport them under
immigration law, as threats to national security.

Four of the 29 have said they will leave voluntarily but others are challenging
the Home Secretary, Charles Clarke, in the courts. Mr Clarke said last month
that there were now 11 people subject to control orders, three of them British.

Despite his ruling, the judge said he was unable to lift the orders. The Home
Office said it would appeal. "The Government believes that control orders are
the best way of addressing the continuing threat posed by suspected terrorists
who cannot currently be prosecuted or, in respect of foreign nationals, removed
from the UK.''

But Shami Chakrabarti, the director of the human rights group, Liberty, said the
orders amounted to punishment without trial. "This completely scandalous system
is definitely in tatters tonight. The Government now has no alternative but to
go back to the drawing board.''

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            April 13, 2006 Thursday

Fury as Israeli minister says deadly attacks on troops are not terrorism

BYLINE: Tim Butcher in Jerusalem

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 516 words


ISRAEL'S foreign minister, Tzipi Livni, has broken a taboo by declaring that
Palestinians who kill Israeli soldiers are not terrorists.

Her comments provoked fierce criticism in Israel and a Right-wing member of
parliament demanded that she should be sacked.

One of her predecessors as foreign minister said her comments proved that she
was too ignorant to hold office.

The row began when Israeli radio broadcast an interview in which 48-year-old Mrs
Livni said that attacks on Israeli soldiers were "more legitimate'' than attacks
on Israeli civilians.

"Somebody who is fighting against Israeli soldiers is an enemy and we will fight
back,'' she said. "But I believe that this is not under the definition of
terrorism if the target is a soldier.''

Mrs Livni first made her comments during an interview recorded several weeks ago
by the American ABC television network, where they went largely unnoticed.

But when they were broadcast in Israel this week they provoked an immediate
angry reaction.

Moshe Arens, a former foreign minister, led the criticism. He said: "What she
said indicates a certain level of ignorance that is not appropriate for a
foreign minister. All these people, whether they are trying to attack soldiers
at a bus stop or civilians in a shopping mall, are members of terrorist
organisations that attack where they see fit.

"It is wrong to differentiate between members of the same terrorist
organisations, whether they kill a soldier or a child.''

Uri Ariel, a member of parliament - the Knesset - for the Right-wing National
Union / NRP, was even more critical.

He said: "Livni offers legitimacy to those who attack our soldiers.

"In her eyes, someone who murders one of our blood is not considered a
terrorist.''

He called on the interim prime minister, Ehud Olmert, to sack her from her
ministry, saying "she is unfit to be appointed to her position''. His attack
reflected the widely-held view in the country that the spilling of any Jewish
blood, civilian or military, is an act of terrorism.

Mrs Livni, whose father, Eitan, was the director of operations for the Irgun,
one of the hard-line Jewish nationalist groups that fought against British rule
in Palestine in the 1940s, sought to strike a tougher tone in an interview given
just before the Jewish holiday of Passover which began yesterday.

"We must do everything to prevent terrorists from gaining international
legitimacy,'' she said.

The secretary-general of the Arab League took the extraordinary step yesterday
of opening a bank account in Cairo and calling for donations to meet the
Palestinian government's shortage of funds caused by western sanctions.

Amr Moussa announced his move after America and the European Union drastically
reduced their financial assistance to the Palestinian Authority.

Washington and Brussels have cut all direct aid, worth about pounds 35 million
every month, on the grounds that the authority was now in the hands of Hamas,
which both regard as a terrorist group.

The United States and the EU have promised that the cuts will not affect
humanitarian projects on behalf of Palestinian civilians.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            April 13, 2006 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

9/11 THE MOVIE THEY DARE NOT SHOW;
EXCLUSIVE first pictures from banned terror attack film

BYLINE: from PAUL MALLEY in Virginia, USA

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 342 words


A MOVIE depicting the full horror of 9/11 has been banned from cinemas - before
it is even released.

Bosses have pulled trailers for the flick United 93 because audiences found it
too upsetting.

But today we can reveal scenes from the harrowing film.

Yesterday's ban came as a jury in the States heard terrifying evidence of the
real events the film is based on. United Airlines Flight 93 was the plane that
missed its target after passengers fought back against the al-Qaida hijackers.

While other planes crashed into the World Trade Center in New York and the
Pentagon, Flight 93 missed its target in Washington.

Thanks to the brave actions of passengers and crew, it crashed in Shanksville,
Pennsylvania, killing 33 passengers and seven crew.

The movie United 93 is set to be released this month, but the trailer has
already caused outrage.When the trailer played at the famous Grauman's Chinese
Theatre in Hollywood, horrified audience members shouted: "Too soon!"

And in New York, the movie trailer sparked fury among audiences still
traumatised by the events of September 11, 2001.

Cinema manager Kevin Adjodha said: "One lady was crying. She was saying we
shouldn't have played the trailer, that it was wrong. I don't think people are
ready for this."

Special preview screenings of the film have been held for families of the
victims of Flight 93.

And some have come forward to defend the film.

Elsa Strong, whose sister Linda Gronlund, 46, died in the crash, said the
graphic scenes left her shaken, but she still wanted people to see the movie.

She said: "The more people become aware of what happened and the courage that
Flight 93 passengers had to use the better." And Sarah Wainio, sister of victim
Honor, 27, said: "I want people to be put on that plane.

"We have been dealing with it and thinking about it and imagining what happened
that day for four years now, but the public might not always be thinking about
it. I'm grateful this project is going on."

A film about events at the World Trade Center is also in production, directed by
Oliver Stone, 59.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DESPERATE MOMENT: The passengers debate what to do after hijackers
storm their plane's cockpit in a scene from the film United 93
COURAGE: An air stewardess flees as the hijackers take over, but the passengers
and crew decide to battle back, top left, and make moving final calls to their
families before their fatal confrontation with the armed terrorists, below left

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 14, 2006 Friday

Terrorist attack prevented in southern Russia - TV report

LENGTH: 181 words


Text of report by Russia TV on 14 April

[Presenter] A major terrorist attack has been prevented in Dagestan. The
republic's Interior Ministry has said that on 13 April policemen and Federal
Security Service officers discovered an explosive device in a car parked in one
of Buynaksk's streets. The explosive device had been hidden in an ordinary
bucket, with putty poured over it. Preliminary reports say that the explosive
device was equal to 8 kg TNT.

[Anzhela Martirosova, captioned as the head of the press service of the
Dagestani Interior Ministry] We can say that a major terrorist attack has been
prevented in Buynaksk. It should be noted that the car containing the explosive
device was discovered outside a block of flats where two officers of
law-enforcement agencies reside.

[Presenter] The owner of the car in which the device was found has been
detained. His name is Magomed Datsiyev. Law-enforcers first heard of him six
weeks ago - he is suspected of assisting one of the rebels who is on the federal
wanted list.

Source: RTR Russia TV, Moscow, in Russian 0300 gmt 14 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 14, 2006 Friday

Official suspected of preparing terror attack detained in northern Russia

LENGTH: 264 words


Text of report by Russian news agency Interfax

Murmansk, 14 April: The deputy head of the municipality of the Zaozersk (former
Zapadnaya Litsa) closed administrative-territorial entity, Igor Senin, has been
detained in Murmansk Region on suspicion of preparing a terrorist attack.

A press release by the regional FSB [Federal Security Service] directorate says
that according to available operational information, the detainee is suspected
of preparing to organize and carry out a terrorist attack which was to blow up
an oil tanker with the aim of creating conditions for an ecological catastrophe
in the Kola Bay.

A criminal case under Part 1 of Article 30 and Part 1 of Article 205 of the
Russian Federation Criminal Code (preparation to carry out a terrorist attack)
was started against the detainee yesterday.

A criminal case has also been started against the person who had ordered the
attack but who has not yet been found, for signs of a crime covered by Part 4 of
Article 33 and Part 1 of Article 205 of the Russian Federation Criminal Code
(incitement to carrying out a terrorist attack).

Zaozersk is situated on the shore of the Zapadnaya Litsa inlet in the Motovskiy
Bay of the Barents Sea. A base of the Northern Fleet, where there are, in
particular, stationing and technical maintenance bases of nuclear submarines, is
situated in this area.

Apart from that, the Andreyeva inlet, which is one of the world's largest
storages of nuclear fuel spent as a result of military activity, is also
situated in this area.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1244 gmt 14 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             April 14, 2006 Friday

Nuclear power is not energy solution, say MPs: Committee to raise fears over
terrorist attacks: Questions over cost of waste disposal remain

BYLINE: Tania Branigan and John Vidal

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 812 words


A new generation of nuclear power stations cannot solve energy supply problems
in the short term, and crucial questions of security, cost and effectiveness
remain unanswered, MPs will warn in a report to be published this weekend.

The findings of the parliamentary environmental audit committee raise concerns
over the risk of terrorist attacks, but also focus on the full costs of nuclear
generation, such as the disposal of waste and decommissioning. Its report on
nuclear power, renewables, and climate change questions whether new plants would
cut carbon emissions as dramatically as promised, and suggests they could crowd
out other energy sources such as windpower. "You cannot claim nuclear is the
answer to problems of supply in the gas market (in the next few years) . . .
Nuclear power couldn't appear over that sort of timescale," said a source who
has seen the report.

But the issue is becoming more pressing because of rising demand, increasing
insecurity in conventional sources of energy, and the approaching energy gap. It
would take upwards of 12 years to gain approval for and build new plants.

The government's energy review - given the specific task of reconsidering
nuclear power after it was rejected in the energy white paper two years ago -
finished taking evidence this week and is expected to report back in July. The
source who has read the report described expert testimony on the risk of attacks
as "impressive and alarming", adding: "If Blair is right that the world has
changed, then it must apply to this area as well."

Keith Barnham, energy security consultant and emeritus professor of physics at
Imperial College London, told the committee: "The possible outcome of a
terrorist attack is so terrible that we feel it has to be faced up to before any
new build. Basically, we have so many potential targets as a result of the waste
policy."

Critics of nuclear energy accept that new reactors are safer than their
predecessors. British Nuclear Fuels told the committee that even existing
structures were extremely robust and that sites had good security arrangements,
approved by the Office for Civil Nuclear Security.

But there are concerns that the reactor models favoured by the nuclear industry
are not the safest available, and that increasing the number of plants and the
amount of nuclear material transported will inevitably increase the risks.

"It's not just about (guarding) installations, but also any transport involved
against theft - not just terrorist attacks. That tends to be ignored," said the
source. Alan Johnson, the trade and industry secretary, insists that ministers
are open-minded about the case for a renewal of nuclear generation, but
anti-nuclear campaigners are concerned that the prime minister has already
decided new plants are necessary. Critics say private firms are unlikely to
invest in nuclear energy without powerful incentives, such as long term
guarantees of costs or demand.

Sir David King, the government's chief scientific adviser, warned the committee:
"I do not believe the utilities are going to take on the onus of purchasing a
new nuclear power station unless the government has discussed with them what
kind of guarantees can be given over the expected lifetime of such a power
station." A member of the committee said that closing the energy gap would
require a range of solutions: "There is no silver bullet to meet the nation's
growing energy demands." Earlier this year the government's Sustainable
Development Commission concluded that there was no justification for bringing
forward a new programme of reactors.

Like the audit committee, it also identified several major disadvantages to
nuclear, including waste, cost, inflexibility and undermining energy efficiency.
Yesterday Jonathan Porritt, director of the commission, said: "We sought to
demonstrate that Britain is not a country that needs recourse to nuclear to meet
energy security or climate change objectives".

The industry has traditionally ducked the terrorist issue, saying that an attack
is unimaginable. But Tony Juniper, head of Friends of the Earth, said yesterday
that a new programme would inevitably leave Britain vulnerable. "All it needs is
one accident, and the impact is devastating."

Blair looks north for answers, page 15 >

FAQ: Nuclear options

Why is nuclear energy back on the agenda?

Questions about the security of oil and gas supplies and concerns about global
warming are pushing governments to find alternatives. Experts fear renewable
sources are not efficient enough to meet future needs.

What is the government doing?

Last November it announced that the energy minister, Malcolm Wicks, would report
on the options in July.

What will happen next?

If nuclear power is approved there will still be questions to answer, including
how to deal with waste and what incentives the private sector might receive for
new reactors.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 17, 2006 Monday

Russia condemns terror attack in Tel Aviv

LENGTH: 265 words


Text of report by Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 17 April: An official spokesman for the Russian Foreign Ministry has
condemned the terrorist act which was carried out in Tel Aviv today.

"We resolutely and unreservedly condemn the bloody attack by extremists who have
once again raised their hands against totally innocent people," said a statement
by Mikhail Kamynin which has been sent to Interfax.

"We are currently appealing to all branches of power in the Palestinian National
Authority to do everything possible in order to curtail anti-Israeli actions,
primarily terrorist attacks, and to the government of Israel, in spite of these
difficult circumstances, to show restraint and calm and to prevent a slide into
the abyss of wide-scale confrontation," the statement said.

It said that "by joint efforts, by firmly barring the way to all terrorist
attacks, it will be possible to break the spiral of violence and resume the
negotiating process on the basis of the 'Road Map'". "Russia will continue to
vigorously promote this," it said.

He added that what occurred cannot be justified. "There can be no justification
for this. The aim of the people who organized this crime is clear - to aggravate
to an extreme level the already difficult situation in Palestinian-Israeli
relations, to unleash the spiral of violence again, and to bury all hope for
achieving the kind of long-term settlement which might lead to the creation of a
Palestinian state living side-by-side with the state of Israel," the statement
said.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1403 gmt 17 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 18, 2006 Tuesday

Romanian president condemns terror attack in Tel Aviv

LENGTH: 157 words


Text of report in English by Romanian news agency Rompres

Bucharest, 18 April: Romanian President Traian Basescu condemned on Tuesday 18
April the bomb attack in Tel Aviv in which two Romanian women lost their lives.
The head of state made the condemnation on Henri Coanda airport, before flying
to Serbia-Montenegro.

Ten persons were killed in the attack, the Romanians included. The Romanians
lived legally in Israel, where they were working as housekeepers, sources from
the Romanian embassy in Tel Aviv said.

Forty people were injured in the attack. The identity of 15 of them was not
disclosed.

The Romanian embassy in Tel Aviv is expected to offer details, after all the
injured are identified.

The attack targeted a pub in the outskirts of Tel Aviv, having mainly foreigners
as clients. A similar attack took place over there in January this year, when 19
people were injured.

Source: Rompres news agency, Bucharest, in English 1037 gmt 18 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 18, 2006 Tuesday

The baby faced suicide bomber;
AS NINE DIE IN TEL AVIV, A STARK WARNING OF TERROR ATTACKS ON LONDON

BYLINE: BEN TAYLOR; ANNETTE YOUNG

SECTION: ED 1ST 04; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 548 words


HE looks barely out of school. But this baby-faced 18-year-old blew himself up
outside an Israeli fast-food restaurant yesterday, killing nine and wounding 50.

The video of Sami Salim Hamad, assault rifle in hand, was released soon after
the suicide bomber had shattered the fragile peace in the Middle East.

The Tel Aviv attack the deadliest in more than a year and the first since
militant group Hamas took over the running of the Palestinian Authority last
month was followed by a chilling warning from fanatics.

Terrorists linked to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas's fractured Fatah
movement threatened for the first time to attack Jews abroad. Splinter group the
Al Aqsa Martyrs which is demanding the release of more than 8,000 Palestinian
prisoners said in a statement: 'This is an open call to all our fighters in the
homeland to focus on kidnapping Israeli soldiers and civilians inside our
occupied land.

'And if the enemy does not release our prisoners, then Zionists outside
Palestine will be an easy target for our fighters.' Security sources believe Al
Aqsa gunmen were behind some of the recent rash of kidnappings of foreigners in
the Gaza Strip, which Israel quit last year after 38 years of occupation.

The terrorists' statement fuelled particular fears among London's Jewish
community of suicide attacks in the capital in the Palestinian cause.

The London-based Jewish Community Security Trust recently warned that there
remains a ' significant risk of attack against the Jewish community and that
security precautions should continue at their present high level'.

Detectives from Scotland Yard's antiterrorist branch said they had 'noted' the
terrorists' warning.

Yesterday's blast in Tel Aviv took place during the Jewish festival of Passover
as the new Israeli Parliament was being sworn in.

The lunchtime explosion was in a busy street near a bus station and a crowded
falafel restaurant. Of the wounded, six were seriously hurt, 12 sustained
moderate wounds and the rest were lightly hurt.

One witness described how a guard at the restaurant asked the bomber to open his
bag.

'I saw a young man starting to open his bag. The guard begins opening the bag,
and then I heard a boom,' he said.

Militant group Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility and named Hamad, a
university dropout from a village near the West Bank town of Jenin, as the
bomber.

In a video broadcast by an Arab television station, the teenager said: 'We tell
the criminal enemy that there are more martyrdomseekers, God willing.'

Family members said Hamad worked as a waiter in Jenin and told his employer on
Sunday he would not be coming back to work.

The Israeli government of acting Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said it held Hamas
responsible, adding that Israel would respond 'in the way and manner required'.

Hamas described the bombing as the act of a people in a 'state of self defence'.

The U.S., which along with the European Union has cut direct aid to the
Palestinian Authority now that Hamas is in power, had strong words for the
militants.

A White House spokesman said: 'Defence or sponsorship of terrorist acts by
officials of the Palestinian cabinet will have the gravest effects on relations
between the Palestinian Authority and all states seeking peace in the Middle
East.' b.taylor@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HIS YOUTH AS CLEAR AS HIS MENACING INTENT, 18-YEAR-OLD SAMI SALIM HAMAD
IS SEEN IN A VIDEO RELEASED SHORTLY AFTER HE UNLEASHED CARNAGE OUTSIDE A TEL
AVIV RESTAURANT, INSET

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 April 19, 2006

Terror for family after gun attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 141 words


A FAMILY of seven were left terrified when a gunman opened fire at their east
end home.

Police are hunting a man who fired at the door of a house in Coll Street, in the
Germiston area of the city.

He struck around midnight and took aim at the front door then made off in an
unknown direction.

Detectives are treating the incident as reckless conduct using a firearm.

Detective Sergeant Ian Hylands, of Baird Street CID, said:

"Thankfully no-one was injured during the incident but it could have had fatal
consequences. A family of seven were in the house at the time and have been left
deeply shaken by their ordeal.

"I would appeal to anyone who may have witnessed the person or persons
responsible or who may have information to contact me."

Any witnesses should contact Baird Street police office on 0141 532 4100 or
Crimestoppers free on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 April 19, 2006

Mum-to-be in brick attack terror on bus;
CCTV filmed thug smashing window and running into house

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 325 words


A PREGNANT woman cowered in terror on a bus when a thug threw a brick through a
window.

The brick narrowly missed Jacqueline McCrone's head, but the 31-year-old - who
was due to give birth days later - was showered with glass and left shocked.

Airdrie Sheriff Court heard the terrifying ordeal happened at 9pm on June 10
last year, yards from Monklands Hospital.

Peter Byrne, 18, admitted repeatedly throwing bricks at the windows of the bus.

Prosecutor Janice Green told the court that bus driver Daniel Buchan had turned
the bus around at the hospital to drop off and collect passengers.

She added: "He noticed trouble outside between Byrne and another young man in
Gothic style clothing. The second youngster got on the bus and the doors were
closed. The driver told him he did not want trouble and the man lay on the
floor."

A further five passengers were then picked up before Byrne, of Park Street,
Whinhall, Airdrie, came running and searching for the youth he was rowing with
earlier.

Ms Green said: "He then threw a brick, which went through the driver's rear
window, just missing the pregnant woman and showering her with glass. The woman
was not hurt, but shocked and distressed.

"Police were called and arrived quickly."

Sheriff Morag Galbraith was told the whole incident had been captured on
closed-circuit television cameras and the film included footage following Byrne
to a nearby house, where police found him hiding. He did not know he had been
caught on camera.

The sheriff then watched the video, which showed Byrne hurling the brick through
the bus window.

Sentencing Byrne, who had one previous conviction for possession of drugs,
Sheriff Galbraith told him: "This was an appalling incident that could have had
serious consequences.

"I have every right to send you to prison, but I will give you one last chance."

She ordered that Byrne be electronically tagged and for him to stay within his
home for the next nine months from 6pm until 6am.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 20, 2006 Thursday

Australia warns of "very high" terror attack threat in Indonesia

LENGTH: 573 words


Text of travel advisory updated on 20 April 2006, carried by Australian
Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade website on 20 April

This advice has been reviewed and reissued. It contains new information in the
Summary and on Safety and Security: Terrorism (possible heightened risk of
attack on Thursday 20 April 2006). The overall level of the advice has not
changed.

Summary:

We advise you to reconsider your need to travel to Indonesia, including Bali, at
this time due to the very high threat of terrorist attack. We continue to
receive a stream of reporting indicating that terrorists are in the advanced
stages of planning attacks against Western interests in Indonesia against a
range of targets, including places frequented by foreigners. These reports
include information about potentially heightened risk of attack on particular
dates. Recent reports suggest Thursday 20 April 2006 could be a potential date
for attack but we emphasise that attacks could occur at any time, anywhere in
Indonesia. If you are in Indonesia, including Bali, and are concerned for your
safety you should consider departing. If you do decide to travel to Indonesia,
including Bali, you should exercise extreme caution.

In December 2005, Indonesian authorities warned publicly that terrorists in
Indonesia may be planning to kidnap foreigners.

Terrorist attacks against Westerners in Bali and Jakarta indicate that these
areas are a priority target for terrorists in Indonesia. Suicide attacks against
locations frequented by foreigners in Bali and Jakarta have killed and injured
many people. Further terrorist attacks cannot be ruled out and could occur at
any time, anywhere in Indonesia. Following the announcement on 23 March 2006 of
decisions by the Australian Department of Immigration and Multicultural Affairs
granting temporary protection visas to a number of Indonesians from Papua
province, peaceful protests have been staged outside the Australian Embassy in
Jakarta. Further demonstrations or protests against the Embassy and/or other
Australian interests in Indonesia are possible and should be avoided.

We strongly advise you not travel to Aceh, Maluku (particularly Ambon) and
Central Sulawesi due to the very unstable security situation and risk of
terrorist attack. We advise you to read carefully the sections below on travel
to Kalimantan, Papua, other parts of Sulawesi and West Timor where additional
security risks exist.

On 12 April 2006 the Indonesian Directorate of Volcanology and Geological Hazard
Mitigation raised the alert status for Mt Merapi volcano in Central Java warning
that volcanic activity has increased and that an eruption might be imminent. See
the Natural Disasters Section below for advice to Australians travelling to or
resident in Indonesia.

In the past year there have been human cases of avian influenza in Indonesia.
See the Health Issues section below for advice to Australians travelling to or
resident in Indonesia.

Because of the serious terrorist threat we strongly recommend that you register
your travel and contact details with us so we can contact you in an emergency.

Be a smart traveller. Before heading overseas: organize comprehensive travel
insurance and check what circumstances and activities are not covered by your
policy subscribe to this travel advice to receive free email updates each time
it's reissued.

Source: Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade website, Canberra in English 20
Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            April 20, 2006 Thursday

World - Islamist terror attacks mar Senate elections in Thailand

LENGTH: 207 words


Deadly attacks on ballot workers by suspected Islamist insurgents in Thailand's
restive south marred Senate elections yesterday.

Critics of the government warned that the vote could inflame the country's
simmering political crisis.

Two police officers and one election volunteer were killed in five separate
attacks in the south, where locals blame the government for mishandling the
insurgency that has killed over 1,000 people since 2004.

Exit polls showed that critics of outgoing Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra
were leading in the south and in the capital Bangkok, where weeks of
anti-government protests prompted Mr Thaksin to step down earlier this month.

In the rest of the country, Senate seats are expected to go to candidates who
are seen as having ties to the government.

If the Senate, which is supposed to be neutral, is filled with Thaksin allies,
it could re-ignite demands for political reforms that peaked during mass street
protests last month.

Senators, who appoint members of anti-corruption agencies and can block
legislation, are required by the constitution to have no political affiliation.

But many outgoing senators have been accused of accepting payments from the
ruling party and protecting officials from fraud charges.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 21, 2006 Friday

Security beefed up in Russia's Ingushetia due to possible terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 196 words


Text of report by Russian website Kavkazskiy Uzel on 21 April

21 April: The law-enforcement bodies of Ingushetia have been put on high alert.
All strategic facilities of the republic have been placed under special control.
Police detachments and traffic patrols have been reinforced in Nazran [former
Ingush capital] and district centres. Units of the federal law-enforcement
agencies stationed in Ingushetia are also involved in the ensuring of public
order.

According to available information, there is a high likelihood of sabotage and
terrorist acts in several North Caucasus republics, including Ingushetia. In
this regard, the law-enforcement bodies of Ingushetia are taking necessary
measures to ensure law and order and the security of the population," a source
in the Ingush police has told Kavkazskiy Uzel.

Meanwhile, according to our interviewee, special attention will be paid to
crowded public places.

Checkpoints on Ingushetia's administrative border with the Chechen Republic and
North Ossetia will be significantly reinforced. The police in border districts
of the republic have also been put on high alert.

Source: Kavkaz.memo.ru website, Moscow, in Russian 21 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             April 21, 2006 Friday

Sellafield terror attack 'would kill 210,000 people'

SECTION: D MERGE; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 77 words


A NUCLEAR scientist today said at least 210,000 people could die from cancer if
terrorists attacked Sellafield.

In a report to Tony Blair's energy review Dr Frank Barnaby, of the Oxford
Research Group, said deaths would occur around the British Isles and Europe,
depending on wind conditions.

The review is widely expected to recommend more nuclear generators.

But Dr Barnaby said that would be "grossly irresponsible" as it would extend the
risk of nuclear terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                             April 25, 2006 Tuesday

Angler tells Oban court of chainsaw attack terror

BYLINE:  Moira Kerr

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 567 words


A Salmon fisherman told a court yesterday  that he fled in terror after a man he
had just met tried to attack him with a chainsaw.

John Reilly told a sheriff and jury trial in Oban that he had protected himself
by holding  his jacket in front of him  and it had been cut as the man tried to
hit him with the chainsaw.

The fishing trip to Scammadale, by Oban, ended with Mr Reilly and his friend,
Steven Dillon fleeing from the scene and returning to find their  car windows
had been smashed while they were in hiding.

Christopher Campbell, 21, of 9B Westcliff, Dumbarton, who is also known as
Christopher McConnachie, is charged with assaulting Mr Reilly and Mr Dillon by
pursuing them with a chainsaw.

Campbell, who appeared from custody, is also accused of damaging the car with
the chainsaw on September 24, 2004.

Campbell pleaded not guilty to all charges and his agent, advocate Joseph Barr,
lodged  a special defence in respect of the assault charges, claiming  his
client had acted in self-defence.

He also lodged a special defence for  the car damage, claiming another person
was responsible.

Reilly, a 40-year-old painter and decorator, whose address was given as c/o Oban
Police Station, told the court that he and Mr Dillon had gone to the Oban area
for a weekend fishing trip.

They had been fishing at the river and loch at Scammadale when Campbell arrived
and started up a conversation. It was agreed that he, a girlfriend and two male
friends would join the fishermen for a drink there later.

When the drinking session began, in Mr Dillon's car, Campbell went back to his
own vehicle with the girlfriend.

Mr Reilly said the vehicle light was on and the couple appeared to be having
intimate relations.

But he added that the girl was later seen sobbing after Campbell's two male
friends got into the vehicle as well and had complained about one of them
"touching her".

Mr Dillon had allegedly challenged Campbell about this behaviour and Mr Reilly
had taken photographs of the men and their vehicle, fearing "something wrong"
was going to happen.

Mr Reilly said: "Next thing I know there was a chainsaw going. Steven ran past
me away from the chainsaw.

"I was going to pick my jacket up. As I was picking it up I turned round and
Steven was past me and he  was in front of me with the chainsaw, running towards
me."

He added: "He tried to hit me with it. I held my jacket up.

"It was cutting through that, so I threw my jacket over him.

"I ran and lay down in a field."

While he was lying there "terrified" he said he heard the chainsaw buzzing and
thudding down on something and heard voices saying: "What are you doing, you
have lost it."

Mr Reilly and Mr Dillon returned to their car and found the windows were
smashed.

The two men then fled up a hill and hid there, in the rain, for three to four
hours, fearing Campbell was looking for them.

They eventually went back to their car and Mr Dillon drove to a local cottage
and called the police.

In cross-examination by Mr Barr, Mr Reilly admitted he had lied to police when
he said he had driven the vehicle, claiming his friend was worried he would lose
his driving licence because he had been drinking.

Questioned on whether he was giving a truthful account of the rest of the
proceedings, Mr Reilly said he was.

He denied suggestions that he had pulled a large fishing knife out of the boot
of Mr Dillon's car before the chainsaw incident.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                             April 25, 2006 Tuesday

City girl, 18, relives terror of mystery street attacks

BYLINE:  Lindsay McIntosh

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 360 words


A Teenage girl told last night how she has been left a prisoner in her own home
after a gang brutally assaulted her twice in a week.

Laura Winton is terrified to leave her Aberdeen flat in case the thugs strike
again.

The 18-year-old spoke out in the hope she would help police catch them and stop
them targeting someone else.

On Thursday, at  about 5.30pm, she was jumped from behind and pushed down a
flight of stone steps.

She smashed her skull off the ground and was left with injuries on her face,
head and elbow.

At the time she believed the attack, in Farquhar Road, Torry, was random.

Just three days later she was going to meet friends when she was assaulted
again.

The former Torry Academy pupil had got off a number 59 bus and was walking along
a lane leading from Balnagask Road to South Grampian Circle.

She said: "They came up behind me and pushed me down.

"I banged my head and I don't remember anything after that.

"When I was coming to myself, they said, 'She's related to Marion Stewart'.
She's my stepmum. Everyone knows her in Torry."

After she regained consciousness, Miss Winton got up from the pavement and
phoned her father, who took her to accident and emergency at Aberdeen Royal
Infirmary.

"I've stitches on my head and face," she said.

"I've four on my cheek and one on my forehead. I've bruised hands.

"I'm not going out of my house - I think it was the same people who pushed me
down the stairs."

She has been suffering from dizzy spells and vomiting and has been unable to go
to her job as a trainee nursery nurse. She is also having to take strong
painkillers to numb the agony in her hands.

As both attacks came from behind, she has been unable to describe the
assailants, although she believes they are female and at least 5ft 8in.

She has no known enemies and has never been targeted before.

A spokesman for Grampian Police, who are investigating the attacks, last night
condemned the thugs.

He said: "This is an apparently unprovoked attack on a lone female.

"Incidents such as these cannot be tolerated in our community and we would urge
anyone who has information to contact us."

Anyone with information should contact the force on 0845 600 5700.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 25, 2006 Tuesday

Pakistani PM condemns terror attack in Egypt

LENGTH: 164 words


Text of report by Associated Press of Pakistan (APP) news agency

Islamabad, 25 April: Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz Tuesday [25 April] strongly
condemning the terrorist attack in Egypt has expressed his deep shock and grief
over the loss of innocent lives.

In a message to Prime Minister of Egypt, Dr Ahmad Mahmud Muhammad Nazif, on the
bomb explosions in the Red Sea town of Dahab, Prime Minister Aziz said; "We are
shocked and saddened by the news of the terrorist attacks in Egypt ... [ellipsis
as received] Pakistan condemns this wanton act of killing and rejects terrorism
in all forms."

He, on behalf of the government and people of Pakistan, conveyed "profound
feelings of condolence and sorrow" to the bereaved families.

"I take this opportunity to renew my sincere wishes for your well-being and for
the peace, progress and prosperity of the brotherly people of Egypt," the prime
minister said.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1402 gmt
25 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 25, 2006 Tuesday
                                 3 Star Edition

3 BOMBS 30 DEAD 160 HURT;
MASSACRE OF THE TOURISTS TERROR ATTACK ON RESORT

BYLINE: BY TOM PARRY AND TOM PETTIFOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 768 words


SHOCKED tourists last night told of the moment three massive blasts turned a
popular Red Sea resort packed with visitors into a terrifying bloodbath.

The explosions ripped through a hotel, restaurant and police station in the
Egyptian city of Dahab, killing 30 people and injuring at least 160 more.
British holidaymakers are feared to be among the dead.

One tourist said: "There were body parts and debris in the street. There is
smoke coming from the area and there are people running everywhere.

"There are ambulances and cars taking people to hospital."

Briton Paul McBeath described how the blasts, in a bustling market area,
happened with "no warning whatsoever".

He said: "There were just three loud bangs and people rushing around. Everybody
is shaken."

The bombers struck just days after Osama bin Laden warned on an audio tape that
al-Qaeda would launch fresh atrocities.

At least 18 of the dead and 150 of the injured were staying at the el-Khaleeg
hotel in the city - a favourite destination with scuba divers. The building bore
the full brunt of one blast.

Another bomb hit the Al Capone restaurant, the resort's most popular eating
place.

Joseph Nazir, who owns a safari company in Dahab, said the packed building was
completely destroyed. He added: "There is nothing there. The tables and chairs
have gone, there is nothing left.

"Everybody is panicking, people are crying. We will be affected by this for a
long, long time."

Most of the hotels were full with a mixture of Israeli and European guests.

Thomson Holidays said it has 43 UK tourists in Dahab, staying at the Iberotel or
the Hilton.

Spokeswoman Kimberley Kay added: "We do not have anyone staying at the
el-Khaleeg hotel which appears to have suffered the worst.

"As far as we know the Iberotel and the Hilton were not affected by the
explosions. Our reps are checking on clients."

George Bush condemned the attacks and Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak vowed to
track down those responsible "so that they pay the penalty for this wicked
terrorist act".

The US president said: "This is a heinous act against innocent civilians.

"Today we saw again that the terrorists are willing to try to define the world
the way they want to see it.

"I assure the enemy we will not waver, we will not tire, we will bring you to
justice for the sake of peace and humanity."

Israel closed its border crossing at Taba, preventing vehicles from entering.

Twenty Israeli ambulances were put on standby at the border in case they were
needed by the Egyptian authorities.

The attack is the latest in a series targeting foreigners on Egypt's busy Sinai
peninsula.

Nearly 100 people at several resorts have been murdered by terrorists in recent
years.

In July, suicide attackers killed 64 people at the resort of Sharm-el-Sheikh - a
favourite holiday spot for Tony Blair and his family.

Bombings in Taba and Ras Shitan, near the Israeli border, killed 34 people in
October 2004.

But the worst Egypt outrage was the Luxor massacre in November 1997.

Terrorists gunned down more than 60 tourists including six Britons in an attack
that devastated the Egyptian holiday market.

But Keith Betton, corporate affairs chief at the Association of British Travel
Agents said the tourist trade in the area was revitalised, thanks largely to
defiant Brits.

He added: "Tourism to Egypt recovered incredibly well after last summer's attack
at Sharm-el-Sheikh.

"I think the fact that it happened so soon after the bombings in London made UK
tourists more resilient. British holidaymakers seem determined not to alter
their travelling habits and even if this latest outrage did deter them from
going to Egypt, it would not put them off travelling altogether."

Dahab is one of the most popular diving resorts on the Red Sea.

In the past 30 years, the holiday hotspot has grown from a sleepy Bedhouin
settlement to a bustling town. It is a haven for divers, backpackers and package
deal holidaymakers.

April is one of the most lively months in Dahab as temperatures can soar to 50C
in the summer.

The biggest attraction for divers is the Blue Hole - a 100-metre deep natural
shaft in coral - reputed to be one of the best sites in the world. Another draw
for tourists is St Catherine's monastery, built on the site where Moses is said
to have heard God speaking from the burning bush.

For more than a thousand years, it has been one of the most important Christian
pilgrimage places.

Last week, the Egyptian government announced it had broken a group of Islamic
militants planning bomb attacks.

Security officials said they foiled a bid to target tourists and a gas pipeline
near Cairo.

t.parry@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TARGET: Dahab was packed with visitors' CARNAGE The bloodied body of a
man killed in the blasts lies covered last night' BLAST CHAOS Holidaymakers
desperately try to help a fellow tourist lying injured before paramedics arrive'
BLOODSTAINS A survivor runs past pools of blood on ground after the three
explosions at the Egypt resort Pictures: REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2006 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 26, 2006 Wednesday

Danish premier condemns Egypt terrorist attack

LENGTH: 194 words


Text of report by Danish newspaper Politiken website on 25 April; subheading as
published:

Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen (Liberal Party) condemns the terror attack
in the Egyptian resort area in Dahab in the strongest terms.

An abominable terror action and a senseless attack on completely innocent
people. Such were the words of Prime Minister Rasmussen's reaction on the day
after three terror bombs killed around 19 and wounded 60. Five of the wounded
are Danes.

"The terrorists want to create the greatest possible panic and fear. This is
entirely unacceptable. We cannot and shall not give in to terrorism and threats
and destruction," he wrote in a press release.

Thoughts go out to those affected

"The terror attack in Dahab has cost the lives of innocent people and wounded
many. Our thoughts go first and mainly to the victims and those close to them,
here also including the affected Danes", Fogh wrote.

One of the Danish victims is a little boy, who has reportedly lost a leg.

The bombs exploded yesterday afternoon and created panic in the resort town,
which is especially attractive to divers.

Source: Politiken website, Copenhagen, in Danish 25 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 26, 2006 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Sinai attacks have hallmark of international terrorism

BYLINE: HUGH ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 516 words


The latest bombing in Egypt's Sinai is as likely to add to the mystery
surrounding bombings in Egypt as to resolve it.

Monday's attack in Dahab resembled those at Sharm el-Sheikh last July, and at
Taba in October 2004. That the same organisation was responsible for all three
is suggested by the targets (resorts on Sinai's east coast) and techniques
(multiple bomb attacks on civilians without warning), and the fact that they
have all occurred on or near important Egyptian anniversaries: the annual
celebration of the 1973 war (Taba), the anniversary of the 1952 revolution
(Sharm el-Sheikh) and now on the eve of Sinai Liberation Day.

Before 2004, Sinai had seemed entirely insulated from jihadi violence throughout
the insurgency of the 1980s and 1990s which climaxed with the massacre at Luxor
in November 1997.

Long before the Taba attack, the main jihadi movements, the Gama'a al-Is-lamiya
(Islamic Group) and Tanzim al-Jihad (the Jihad Organisation) had ended their
campaigns against the Egyptian state. The Gama'a had renounced its violent
strategy, and members of the Jihad Organisation outside the country who had
stayed in business had redeployed to al-Qa'ida's global jihad against the West.

None of the attempts to explain these attacks has really done so. Claims that
the Sharm attacks were the work of previously unheard of movements, the
so-called Abdallah Azzam Brigades or the Holy Warriors of Egypt, were generally
discounted by Egyptian experts. The official claim that the Taba bombings were
the work of an isolated Palestinian, Iyad Said Saleh, who had won over a small
network of locals to his Islamist sympathies, failed to explain why the security
services felt it necessary to arrest several thousand Sinai residents at the
time and keep many of them in custody to this day, or how this network was able
to carry off the Sharm (and now Dahab) attacks after Saleh's death.

The authorities' reluctance to accept that al-Qa'ida may have been behind these
events is understandable given the effect this admission could have on the
tourist trade. But the comparative sophistication of the terrorist organisation
and its ability to survive security crackdowns is hard to square with the notion
that disgruntled locals are behind these incidents.

However, there is no doubt that these repeated attacks are symptomatic of two
factors specific to Sinai.

The first is the fact that, under the 1979 Camp David Agreement which secured
the return of the peninsular to Egypt, the Egyptian state has less than full
sovereignty over Sinai and its security forces are accordingly constrained in
their attempts to control it or pursue terrorists, especially on the eastern
side of the peninsula. The second is that the region's population remains to be
properly integrated into the Egyptian nation.

The problem is that, at present, the Egyptian state is badly placed to address
either of these factors which lie under Sinai's current propensity to generate,
or to host, the latest brand of terrorism to plague the country.

Hugh Roberts is North Africa director for the International Crisis Group

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           April 26, 2006, Wednesday

A bloodied footprint at the scene of three terrorist bomb attacks in the
Egyptian tourist resort of Dahab

SECTION: FEATURES; Times2; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 53 words


A bloodied footprint at the scene of three terrorist bomb attacks in the
Egyptian tourist resort of Dahab, in which 23 people died and more than 60 were
injured

"I thought the power generator had blown up. We ran towards the scene and we
found people, our friends, lying on the ground. Some were already dead" Hani
Sadeq, 24

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                 April 26, 2006

Workers' fears over terror attacks

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 206 words


Kathryn Moore

MORE than half of British companies have taken no measures to prepare for the
effects of a terrorist attack, a survey published yesterday revealed.

The research highlights concern amongst the UK workforce about the ability of
their organisations to withstand and respond to a major incident, pandemic or
supplier failure.

The survey of 400 British companies, conducted by global consulting business
Arup, points to growing tensions between employees and employers over the levels
of adequate emergency planning required to ensure safety.

Almost 60 per cent of senior managers interviewed were unsure as to whether
their organisations would even survive a major disruption. Only 40 per cent of
those interviewed have taken the time to root out potential vulnerabilities to
this type of incident.

Just under half of respondents said they would consider changing jobs if their
organisations did not do more to make them feel sufficiently protected against
major threats.

Employees said that they needed to feel protected at work - yet despite this, 39
per cent of firms still have not got robust emergency plans in place or have
failed to communicate these plans effectively at senior manager level.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2006

                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday

Two soldiers killed in "terrorist" attack in eastern Turkey

LENGTH: 109 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Tunceli, 27 April: Two soldiers were killed and a non-commissioned officer was
injured in a terrorist attack on a gendarmerie station in Karsilar village in
the eastern city of Tunceli, sources told Anatolia news agency on Thursday [27
April].

A group of terrorists approached the station with a car they stole. When
gendarmerie forces warned them to stop, they threw a hand grenade at the station
building. They also opened fire on gendarmerie forces.

Two soldiers were killed and a non-commissioned officer was injured in the
attack.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0538 gmt 27 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday

Premier condemns terror attack killing Romanian soldier in Iraq

LENGTH: 164 words


Text of report in English by Romanian news agency Rompres

Bucharest, 27 April: Romania's Prime Minister Calin Popescu-Tariceanu and the
Romanian government condemn the terror attack that took place on Thursday 27
April, in Iraq, in which Romanian soldier Bogdan Hancu was killed, among others.

"Premier Calin Popescu-Tariceanu and the executive extend heartfelt condolences
and voice full solidarity with the family of the Romania soldier killed ," the
government says in a release.

Bogdan Hancu was 28 years old, lived in Iasi (eastern Romania) and came from a
family of career military.

He was corporal and was on the Military Police Detachment deployed in Camp
Mittica.

Early on Thursday, Hancu was on a patrol-monitoring mission, along with Italian
soldiers, close to Al Nassyria.

The armoured vehicle the troops were in was attacked by Iraqi rebels. A bomb-car
ran into it and killed the Romanian and three Italians.

Source: Rompres news agency, Bucharest, in English 1244 gmt 27 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday

Albania's foreign minister condemns terrorist attacks in Egypt

LENGTH: 131 words


Text of report in English by Albanian news agency ATA

Tirana, 27 April: Albanian Foreign Affairs Minister Besnik Mustafaj condemned on
Thursday (27 April) the recent terrorist blasts in Egypt's Sinai Peninsula that
caused the death of tens of persons and wounded many others.

Mustafaj considered the acts criminal and voiced the conviction that the
Egyptian authorities would find the culprits and bring them to justice. "The
fight to prevent terrorism and the legal punishment of terrorists is the duty of
all the governments that have committed themselves to guaranteeing peace and
order for the peoples. The Egyptian government and people enjoy the support and
solidarity of the Albanian government and people," he stressed.

Source: ATA news agency, Tirana, in English 1855 gmt 27 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday

Britain's nuclear waste 'vulnerable to terrorist attack'

BYLINE: Charles Clover Environment Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 496 words


SECURITY experts have given a warning that Britain's nuclear waste is vulnerable
to terrorist attack and the Government is failing to address the issue with
sufficient urgency.

The warning is contained in a paper presented to the Committee on Radioactive
Waste Management which will today announce its draft recommendations for
disposing of the nuclear industry's radioactive legacy.

The paper highlights the danger posed by liquid waste from the reprocessing of
nuclear fuel at Sellafield in Cumbria.

It adds that security specialists said: ''It is our unanimous opinion that
greater attention should be given to the current management of radioactive waste
in the United Kingdom, in the context of its vulnerability to potential
terrorist attack.

"We are not aware of any UK Government programme that is addressing this issue
with adequate detail or priority, and consider it unacceptable for some
vulnerable waste forms, such as spent fuel, to remain in their current condition
and mode of storage.''

The experts urge the Government to instruct the Nuclear Decommissioning
Authority "to produce an action plan for categorising and reducing the
vulnerability of the UK's inventory of radioactive waste to potential acts of
terrorism, through conditioning and placement in storage options with an
engineered capability specifically designed to resist major terrorist attack''.

High level liquid waste stored at Sellafield was estimated in a report to the
European Parliament to contain 40 times the radioactive compound caesium 137
that was released in the Chernobyl nuclear accident.

The committee has been examining a list of options for dealing with nuclear
waste, including firing it into space, but it is expected to recommend today
some form of underground storage.

This is opposed by environmental groups such as Friends of the Earth, which
supports an accelerated programme of conditioning high level waste, by placing
it in "vitrified'' solid form, but opposes placing it underground as it believes
that the containers could leak within 500 years.

Roger Higman, of Friends of the Earth, said: "Britain's nuclear waste is a
serious hazard, but it must not be dumped deep underground. Ultimately all ways
of disposing of nuclear waste are fraught with risk. This means we shouldn't
create any more.''

A spokesman for the Office for Civil Nuclear Security, based at the Department
of Trade and Industry, said it was convinced that the procedures for protecting
civil nuclear installations and processes were "robust and fit for the
purpose''.

However it also recognised that some other issue such as conditioning of waste
could "make a positive contribution to safety.''

Sellafield already has a no-fly zone overhead and RAF fighters have instructions
to scramble if an aircraft enters the zone.

It also has a succession of other security measures, some imposed after the
September 11, 2001, attack on the World Trade Centre in New York, and is
patrolled by its own armed police force.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Dorset

                            April 27, 2006 Thursday

Terrorists 'could use airfield for an attack'

BYLINE: Sharen Green sharen.green@bournemouthecho.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 344 words

DATELINE: North Dorset


TERRORISTS could use a North Dorset airfield to launch an attack on one of
London's main airports, politicians have warned.

Anti-terrorist measures are to be taken at Compton Abbas - even though
professional planners said the need had not been established.

Airfield owner Clive Hughes applied to the district council for permission to
build staff accommodation so that there would be a permanent presence at the
airfield.

His bid was supported by anti-terrorist advisers, Dorset Police, the Civil
Aviation Authority, Shaftesbury Town Council and surrounding parish councils and
those responsible for tourism and the rural economy.

And 91 members of the public wrote in to support the move.

But planning officers advised against the move, saying security guards could
provide the same service without a need to build housing in an Area of
Outstanding Natural Beauty.

Mr Hughes told the development control committee that the potential for using
light aircraft to launch a terrorist attack was "not just fantasy".

He said he had much more intelligence about security than he was at liberty to
divulge.

Cllr Andrew Pemberton demanded a briefing from the anti-terrorist brigade on the
question of security, saying it would have to be in confidence.

Compton Abbas could become "a terrorist target because of its very nature", he
said.

"If there is to be a major act on an industrial area or even on Heathrow, the
airfield could be targeted," he added.

Cllr Mervyn Jefferies said if someone wanted to steal a plane it wouldn't matter
what alarms there were.

"A thief stealing a plane isn't going to go through flight checks," he said,
adding the plane would be long gone before police could reach the airfield.

"If you phone Shaftesbury police in the evening you're lucky if you can get one
within an hour," he said.

But Mr Hughes said the person responsible would not be calling the local police
.

"We won't be wasting our time trying to dial 999," he said.

"We will be ringing the right numbers in the right order immediately."

Members voted overwhelmingly to grant Mr Hughes' application.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2006 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 28, 2006 Friday

Israel receives 75 warnings of planned "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 93 words


Text of report by Israel radio on 27 April

The defence establishment has received 75 general warnings of plans by terrorist
organizations to carry out attacks.

During a meeting he convened with heads of the security forces, Defence Minister
Sha'ul Mufaz reported that half the warnings are about plans of organizations
identified with Fatah to carry out attacks. The meeting also heard a report
noting there is a drop in the number of Qassam-fire incidents from the northern
Gaza Strip into Israel.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1500 gmt 27 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 28, 2006 Friday

Commentary on Egypt attacks: causes of terrorism need close attention

LENGTH: 811 words


A commentary in the London-based newspaper Al-Hayat has pointed out that
terrorism has political causes and is not just aimless nihilistic conduct. The
commentary said countries, especially the USA, should avoid launching a campaign
of "defamation and insults" after terrorist attacks, and should instead assess
the political positions that provoke the terrorists to act as they do. The
following is the text of an article by Dawud al-Sharayyan entitled: "Talk about
terrorism" published by London-based newspaper Al-Hayat website on 26 April:

Is it possible to separate the three bombings in the Egyptian tourist resort of
Dahab in Sinai from political developments and the siege which has been imposed
on the Palestinian people since Hamas's assumption of power? After the Dahab
incidents, is it possible to continue to reject the principle that there is a
relationship between the biased US policy and terrorism, and that there is a
relationship between terrorism and the degree and nature of the response of some
Arab countries to this policy? After the Dahab bombings, is it possible to
persuade people in this region that terrorism is just a satanic seed and blind
anger that has no causes or goal?

Examining the causes of terrorism does not mean justifying it, accepting the
soundness of its position or agreeing to negotiate with the terrorists. Besides,
ignoring the political causes of this terrorism will not reduce its danger, stop
its growing activity or prevent sympathizing with it. For this reason, the Dahab
bombings should be an opportunity to review the phenomenon of terrorism in a
political way, stop the campaign of defamation and insults that is launched
after every terrorist action, and replace the ready-made stereotypes with
analysis and examination of the causes.

We should also be frank in facing what happened in Dahab, since the incident did
not come as a surprise to those who always find a link between political tension
and terrorist bombings. In addition, the bombings did not occur in a calm
atmosphere or an atmosphere that is free of political tension over the
Palestinian issue and its interconnection with the Iranian and Syrian problems.
However, asking for a political reading of the motives and goals of terrorism
should not lead us to accuse the Hamas movement at random [of involvement in the
bombings], on the basis of incomplete and unconfirmed information or vague and
tendentious statements. Political analyses, which attempt to take advantage of
this incident to finish off and foil the Hamas government, are more dangerous
than the Dahab bombings themselves.

The time has come to break free from the US conviction that terrorism is only
nihilistic conduct that has no goal. This conviction, in addition to being
arrogant and incorrect, contradicts our national interests, since it has imposed
political and media terrorism on this region and has prevented its countries
from thinking independently. Therefore, we should emerge from this predicament
and absolutely reject this conviction, because it will lead us to a disaster. We
should also deal with terrorism as a reckless or blind reaction, or call it
whatever you want. But, in the end, it is a reaction by some of our own people
who belong to our culture. Stopping it [terrorism] requires removing the action
that instigated it, exactly as the European countries, which faced terrorist
attacks because of the presence of their forces in Iraq, have done. These
countries dealt with terrorism by the logic of action and reaction. They now
read terrorist incidents in a way that serves their political interests, without
fear of the blackmail imposed by Washington because of its war on so-called
terrorism, or fear of accusing them of negotiating with the terrorists or
yielding to their will.

Certainly, Washington itself has sometimes not ruled out opening contact and
negotiation channels with the Iraqi resistance, which Washington describes as
terrorist. In fact, the Iraqi government held dialogue with some of the
resistance parties before the elections, on instructions from the US government.
We in the Arab world do not say that it is necessary to talk with the
terrorists, negotiate with them or meet their demands. Rather, we are required
to act as the European countries, which take part in protecting the US
occupation of Iraq, have acted. We are also required to review the political
positions that create a state of provocation. There is no arguing that the
Jordanian accusations against Hamas, as well as Cairo's shift from playing the
role of mediator between Israel and the [Palestinian National] Authority to
boycotting the Palestinians completely because of Hamas, will fan the flames of
the phenomenon of terrorism. The solution is an Arab policy that fears God and
considers people's feelings.

Source: Al-Hayat website, London, in Arabic 26 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 28, 2006 Friday

Intelligence service prevented terrorist attack in southern Russia

LENGTH: 241 words


Text of report by Russia TV on 28 April

[Presenter] Russia's special services have managed to establish those who
ordered terrorist attacks that fighters were planned to undertake on 9 May this
year in Karachay-Cherkess [Republic's] territory, Deputy  Director of [Russia's
Federal Security Service] FSB Vladimir Bulavin said today.

[Bulavin] The information has been confirmed in the framework of processing of
one of the signals. It was established that the customers from international
terrorists' centers in the Middle East and in Central Asia handed over financial
resources for organization of the terrorist attacks through a messenger in the
North Caucuses.

As a result of the checks, the members of a criminal gang, their locations as
well as the address of a secret laboratory for manufacturing of explosive
devices have been identified.

[Presenter] FSB data say that the targets for the terrorist attack using a
vehicle stuffed with explosives were administrative and governmental buildings
in Karachay-Cherkessia.

In the course of operational work a gang has been discovered in one of the
settlements of the republic. This gang has already purchased a car and
explosives for the terrorist attack.

Last night fighters that tried to offer resistance during the detention, were
killed. The messenger of the group has been detained and he is already
confessing in his testimony.

Source: RTR Russia TV, Moscow, in Russian 1000 gmt 28 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 28, 2006 Friday

Russia foils major terrorist attack planned for May holidays

LENGTH: 512 words


Text of report by Russian Channel One TV on 28 April

[Presenter] The security forces have managed to prevent an act of terrorism in
Karachay-Cherkessia that was financed from abroad. New details emerged today of
the operation that wrecked the terrorists' plans to cause a series of explosions
on 9 May, Victory Day. Anton Vernitskiy has more.

[Video report from screen time 17:01:30 shows wrecked car and dead bodies,
captioned "security footage 27 April", man handcuffed with face pixellated out,
weaponry, speakers mentioned in report]

[Correspondent] This is already the final stage of the security operation, the
actual elimination of the bandits who refuse to surrender. The security forces
are not saying anything about what preceded this, but we have learned that
contact with them had been cultivated for some time, including from abroad -
from where, according to the security forces, they regularly received money.
Intelligence work established that this gang of terrorists specialized in
explosions. And, according to the security forces, in April the gang became
noticeably more active. A courier was seized, and he confirmed that several
explosions were being planned for 9 May, Victory Day.

[Vladimir Bulavin, deputy director of FSB, chief of staff for National
Antiterrorist Committee, captioned] The targets for the terrorist attacks, using
bombs placed in vehicles, were administrative and government buildings in
Karachay-Cherkessia. We have established that funds to organize the act of
terrorism were sent by the instigators from international terrorist centres in
the Middle East and Central Asia, via an intermediary in the North Caucasus.

[Correspondent] This is one of the vehicles that they planned to stuff with
explosives. After the successful operation to kill the gang on the night of 27
April in the village of Storozhevaya, officers found what amounted to a workshop
for making explosives. About 90 kg were ready to be loaded into the car.

[Karachay-Cherkessia FSB officer, face obscured, voice disguised] One of the
members of the gang, who incidentally was the explosives expert, had earlier
been a member of the Gochiyayev terrorist gang [words, possibly names,
indistinct], which was involved in acts of terrorism in Moscow in 1999. This
explosives expert resisted for longer than the others and threw three grenades
[at us].

[Correspondent] One other gang member took refuge in the home of a friend from
his school days, in the Karachay village of Teberda. When told to give himself
up, he tried to shoot his way out of a security forces encirclement and was
killed. He turned out to be Timur (?Uglov), the younger brother of Idris
(?Uglov), who organized the Moscow metro blast of 2004 and was killed by the
security services last year.

This operation in Karachay-Cherkessia is the first real result of the recently
established National Antiterrorist Committee. It has managed to not only prevent
a whole series of acts of terrorism but also shut down a channel for funding
terrorists.

Source: Channel One TV, Moscow, in Russian 1700 gmt 28 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 29, 2006 Saturday

Explosive intended for "terrorist attack" found in Kyrgyz capital

LENGTH: 195 words


Text of report by Kyrgyz public educational TV on 28 April

An explosive device weighing 0.5 kg in TNT equivalent has been found in a hiding
place on the bank of the Mayskiy pound [in Bishkek suburb], the press service of
the Drug Control Agency reported today. The www.24.kg [news agency] reported
that the device belongs to a 43-year-old Kyrgyz citizen, who has been convicted
twice of hooliganism and mass disorders in prisons. The agency said that he is
the head of a group, consisting of his mother, sister and wife, which has been
selling hard drugs.

Staff members of the agency found out that the detainee has ties with the
organized criminal group of Aziz Batukayev, who is being tried by the Alamedin
municipal court for organizing a rally at penal colony No 31 in September 2005.

The press service of the agency said that the device was a TNT explosive with a
detonator. It was brought from Checnya several years ago for a terrorist attack
in Kyrgyzstan, the agency added. Investigation into the illegal possession of
explosives is under way.

[Report over a still of an explosive device]

Source: Public Educational Radio and TV, Bishkek, in Russian 1430 gmt 28 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 29, 2006 Saturday

Egyptian government discusses terror attacks, Alexandria riots, taxes

LENGTH: 343 words


Text of report in English by Egyptian news agency MENA

Cairo, 29 April: The Egyptian cabinet, under Prime Minister Ahmad Nazif,
Saturday [29 April] reiterated the fact that Egypt's national security
represented a red line that should never be crossed, as stated by President
Husni Mubarak in his address to the nation on the occasion of Labour Day.

The cabinet asserted full commitment to transparency in managing state assets
and zero tolerance regarding any violations, pointing out that that the
government gave priority to labour rights in any transactions pertaining to
privatization.

The cabinet pointed out to expansion of development ventures in Sinai, asserting
that security alone could not realize stability in this much cherished part of
Egypt.

Cabinet spokesman Majdi Radi said today's meeting went over Interior Minister
Habib al-Adli's report on the recent terrorists events in Sinai, and before that
the attack on churches in Alexandria and the arrest of members of a terrorist
Salafist cell identified as Al-Ta'ifa al-Mansura.

Nazif affirmed that Muslims and Copts were being treated on equal footing in
Egypt and that no-one would succeed in targeting the unity of Egyptians,
according to Radi.

The cabinet praised an integrated system that dealt with repercussions of the
terrorist events, including aid from the armed forces and Oil Ministry in
transporting the injured to Cairo hospitals.

For his part, Egyptian Finance Minister Yusuf Butrus Ghali said the cabinet
agreed on a number of bills introduced by his ministry, including a bill cutting
short 40 tax stamps to only two as part of efforts to avoid bureaucracy.

The minister noted that in a new step men would be given the pension of their
deceased wives.

The cabinet also approved a presidential decree unifying public tax and sale tax
agencies into one entity, the minister said.

The cabinet okayed a move to improve the salaries of health workers and was to
approve another bill to improve salaries of teachers, Ghali added.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1303 gmt 29 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 29, 2006 Saturday

German minister says no specific indications of terrorist attack on world cup

LENGTH: 131 words


Text of report by German news agency ddp on 29 April

Berlin: The German security authorities have no specific indications of any
terrorist attack against the football world cup in Germany, Federal Interior
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble (Christian Democratic Union) has stated. Schaeuble
told Bild am Sonntag newspaper that Germany was "still a general danger area,
without our having any specific indications at present". The minister made his
comment in reaction to a communication by the US State Department, sounding a
warning over possible attacks on the football world cup. According to Schaeuble,
this amounted to "general advice to American fans by the US authorities", which
did not have any concrete pointers to dangers.

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1314 gmt 29 Apr 06

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            April 29, 2006 Saturday

A matter of when, not if A clear and thoughtful analysis of the threat of
nuclear terrorist attack proves sobering, and essential, reading

BYLINE: NICHOLAS SHAKESPEARE

SECTION: BOOKS; REVIEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 879 words


Nuclear Terrorism: the Risks and Consequences of the Ultimate Disaster

by Graham Allison

256pp, Constable, pounds 7.99 (pbk)

T pounds 7.99 (plus 99p p&p) 0870 428 4112

First, the bad news. In May 1997, General Alexander Lebed, security adviser to
President Yeltsin, admitted that 84 of 132 special "suitcase'' nuclear bombs
could not be accounted for. Devised to be activated by a single individual, and
taking 20 minutes to prepare, the missing bombs may well have been stolen or
sold. Following the fall of the Soviet Union, security consisted of no more,
often, than "an underpaid guard sitting inside a chain-link fence''. Nor was the
theft of weapons-grade material hypothetical. The Commander of Russia's Pacific
Fleet was convicted of selling 64 decommissioned ships, including two aircraft
carriers. Of more concern, al-Qa'eda's number two, al-Zawahiri, boasted in 2001:
"we purchased some suitcase bombs'' - from a source in Uzbekistan.

Only now can we begin to absorb the enormity of the false alarm with which
Graham Allison begins his book. One month after September 11, 2001, the director
of the CIA informed President Bush that al-Qa'eda had a 10-kiloton bomb, stolen
from the Soviet arsenal, ready to blow up in New York. Detonated above Times
Square, such a bomb would incinerate 1,100,000 people, kill thousands more in
their panic to escape radiation, render the entire borough uninhabitable for
years, and cause a psychological devastation that "remains almost
inconceivable''. With no return address, al-Qa'eda had no fear of reprisal:
"Even if the president were prepared to negotiate, al-Qa'eda had no phone number
to call.'' After weeks of panic, in which the Vice-President, Dick Cheney, left
Washington for an "undisclosed location'', the CIA report turned out to be as
wrong as the CIA's assessment of the nuclear threat posed by Iraq.

None the less, the planting of a nuclear device in a major city remains a strong
possibility. What's more, it's been done: on November 23, 1995, Chechen
separatists placed a dirty bomb (composed of cesium-137) in Moscow's Ismailovsky
Park - then alerted journalists to its whereabouts. The consensus among experts,
writes Allison, is that a dirty bomb is "long overdue'', and that "on the
current course, nuclear terrorism is inevitable''. He quotes the US General
Eugene Habiger, in charge of strategic nuclear weapons until 1998: "It is not a
matter of if; it's a matter of when.''

Allison has a rich CV that crosses party lines. Clinton kept him on as assistant
secretary of defence after Allison had served under Reagan. As founding dean of
Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, he has worked on the front-line and is
no scaremonger. That's why his analysis is sobering. In clear and thoughtful
language, he outlines the availability of nuclear weapons, the determination of
groups like al-Qa'eda to deploy them, and the steps that must be taken to
prevent this.

Leaving aside some 22,000 atomic weapons in the former Soviet Union, terrorists
could look to Pakistan or North Korea for fissile material. They could even
build a bomb themselves. When asked how easy this was, Theodore Taylor, the
designer of America's smallest and largest nuclear bombs, replied: "Very easy.
Double underline. Very easy.'' In fact, the know-how is available on the
internet, or from Amazon for the price of pounds 26.11 (Los Alamos Primer and
Atomic Energy for Military Purposes). As for delivering the bomb to the US
mainland, this is "the easiest step in the whole process''. In 2003, as an
exercise, an ABC News reporter transported 15lbs of depleted uranium from
Jakarta to Los Angeles inside a Samsonite suitcase. It arrived unchecked in one
of 20,000 seaborne containers that enter US ports every day. Simpler still,
writes Allison, bearing in mind that 95 per cent of shipped material is not
opened for inspection, you could FedEx your bomb.

Allison levels serious charges against his government for squandering not just
America's resources but the goodwill of the international community in its
single-minded pursuit of Saddam. After September 11, the threat of nuclear
terrorism became "incandescent'' - "and yet no coherent strategy for combating
nuclear terrorism has emerged''. The Bush administration correctly identified
the threat, then went and shot the wrong guy. The war that should have been
mounted on terror was diverted instead to Iraq, which did not constitute a
nuclear danger. The result: America's international standing "has fallen to the
lowest point in modern history'', and North Korea and Iran were given breathing
space to advance their own nuclear ambitions - a situation, warns Allison, that
"promises to become the greatest failure in the nearly 230-year history of
American foreign policy''.

And the good news? Allison believes that a catastrophe is avoidable, but only if
we press our governments to take swift and concerted action. Exactly 20 years
after Chernobyl, and in the month of Iran's claims to be the ninth nuclear
power, this is a book of awful relevance. As John le Carré writes: "Lucid, calm,
cogent and majestically well-informed, Allison's Nuclear Terrorism is required
reading for every Western politician, journalist and espiocrat.'' I would go
further. Everyone ought to read it.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            April 29, 2006 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

5 DENY TERROR BOMBS ATTACK;
Date is set for trial

BYLINE: by PAUL MALLEY

SECTION: NEWS; 22

LENGTH: 292 words


FIVE men yesterday denied carrying out the failed July 21 terror attacks on
London's transport system.

They appeared in court charged with offences including conspiracy to murder and
cause explosions.

Trains at three Tube stations and a bus were targeted last summer. Another
device was found in bushes.

The men, all from London, appeared at the Old Bailey yesterday via video links
to London's Belmarsh prison and Woodhill jail in Bucks.

Muktar Said Ibrahim, 27, Ramzi Mohammed, 23, Yassin Omar, 24, Hussain Osman, 27,
and Manfo Asiedu, 32, deny conspiring to murder and causing explosions.

They also deny possessing an improvised device with intent to cause blasts
likely to endanger life or cause serious damage to property.

Ibrahim denies attempting to murder passengers on a No 26 London bus.

Mohammed, Omar and Osman also plead not guilty to attempting to murder
passengers on the Tube.

The men's trial is due to take place on October 3.

Adel Yahya, 23, from London, was remanded until June charged with conspiracy to
cause explosions. He did not enter a plea.

In a separate hearing Osman's wife, Yeshiemebet Girma, 29, her sister Muluemebet
Girma, 21, and their brother Essayas Girma, 20, all from London, were remanded
until June.

They appeared with Shadi Abdelgadir, 22, Omar Almoghoul, 20, and Mohammed
Kabashi, 23, all from Brighton.

All but Yeshiemebet and Kabashi, who appeared by video link from prison, were on
bail.

They are accused of assisting an offender - Osman - and failing to disclose
information on terrorism. They face trial on February 5 next year.

In a third hearing, five men aged between 23 and 31 were remanded for trial on
April 16 next year.

They denied 17 charges o failing to disclose information about terrorism and
helping an offender.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTEMPTED MURDER RAP: Hussain Osman

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 1, 2006 Monday

Turkish police catch Marxist "terrorists" preparing attacks

LENGTH: 92 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Mersin, 1 May: Mersin police have arrested two members of terrorist organization
TKP/ML [Turkish Communist Party/Marxist-Leninist] while preparing to stage
Molotov cocktail attacks during 1 May celebrations.

Arresting S.K. and S.E. police found equipment used to concoct Molotov cocktails
in a search at the suspects' home.

The two were formerly involved in Molotov cocktail attacks on four separate
ATMs, police sources indicated.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0826 gmt 1 May 06

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday

Tia, 5, in dog attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 427 words


A FIVE-year-old girl was taken to hospital after being attacked by an Alsatian
dog.

The animal sank its teeth into little Tia  Stewart's face.

She has been left so terrified of dogs that she refused to go  home until her
own  little puppy, Ben,  had  been banished.

The formerly dog-loving youngster was staying with a friend in Stonehaven on
Saturday night  when she was set upon by a neighbour's dog an Alsatian cross.

Her mum Tanya, 25, had only just got out of hospital the day before  and was
recuperating from a kidney complaint.

She was horrified to get a call, from those caring for Tia, to say her little
daughter had also been rushed to hospital after being bitten.

She said: "When I went up I thought it would probably have just been a bite on
her arm as I was told that the dog was a puppy. I thought it would have been the
puppy playing about but it had got her face.

"She (Tia) said she went up and stroked the dog and he showed his teeth. She
thought he was smiling  - there was no growl  -  and he went for her. Her words
were that he was 'fighting' with her. "

Tia, a Newtonhill Primary pupil, suffered a wide cut to her cheek,  puncture
marks and scratches as well as damage to the inside of her mouth.

She was sent from the local hospital in Stonehaven to Royal Aberdeen Children's
Hospital where the large wound was glued and treated with paper stitches. Her
eye was untouched and the major wound was not deep but her little face was  left
bruised, her lip swollen and she is expected to have a small scar.

The courageous schoolgirl  - who was due to go back to the classroom today  -
managed to give police a statement herself and the incident was investigated.
The dog's owner, who has co-operated with police, has left a gift for the
youngster.

But Tanya, a single mum of Newtonhill's Tern Court, has had to farm out her own
puppy to a friend so that Tia can return home without facing more trauma.

"The hospital said she could have flashbacks and end up crying so we stayed at
my parents house. She has got a fear in her now, she didn't want to come home
because of the dog, it's a five-month-old Collie pup.

"She is so scared in case he licks her face or jumps up and catches her cut. She
absolutely loves dogs, she has been brought up with them, but now her view as
just totally changed."

Tanya added: "I just want to show other children or other parents that, it
doesn't matter how cute a dog can look, within a couple of seconds they can just
turn on you."

A spokesman for Grampian Police confirmed an incident was reported and it has
been dealt with.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Aberdeen Evening Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday

Philippine army says terror group planning bomb attacks in southern provinces

LENGTH: 375 words


Text of report by Zaida delos Reyes published by Philippine newspaper Taliba on
2 May

The Southeast Asian terror network Jemaah Islamiyah (JI) is targeting to raid
and bomb four provinces in Southern Philippines and Makati city. This was
confirmed by Philippine Army 4th Infantry Division spokesperson Francisco
Simabajon.

"We are on heightened alert. There are reports that JI is planning an attack on
civilian targets. Security forces are on red alert and we appeal to citizens to
report to authorities any suspicious person or abandoned package or bag in
public places. We should stay vigilant," [preceding quoted sentences in English]
Simabajon stated.

Among JI's targets are the main cities in Southern Region, including Davao,
General Santos, Koronadal and Zamboanga.

According to him, aside from JI, the military is also watching the
Al-Qa'idah-linked group Abu Sayyaf and the New People's Army rebel group, which
may also attack, in conjunction with JI.

However, the police and military have not released details on how the
terrorists' attacks will be carried out.

According to regional police chief Florante Baguio, he has already directed his
men to tighten security in Mindanao, particularly in Cagayan de Oro city.

"We are now strengthening our security in the region. Our policemen are now on
alert," [preceding quoted sentences in English] Baguio stated.

Based on an intelligence report that reached the police, an Indonesian terrorist
[name omitted] and six of his comrades intend to launch terror attacks in Davao
city.

A certain [name omitted] and seven others were allegedly ordered to carry out a
series of bombings in General Santos and Koronadal city.

In Zamboanga city, a certain [name omitted] and six others were directed to
carry out terrorism in Zamboanga city.

Aside from the provinces mentioned above, the terrorist group is also targeting
the country's financial district, Makati city. A certain [name omitted] and his
seven companions have been ordered to carry out the attacks.

It can be recalled that Navy Admiral William J. Fallon, chief of the United
States Pacific Command, said only a month ago that Mindanao and Sulu are being
used as recruitment and training grounds by terrorists.

Source: Taliba, Manila, in Tagalog 2 May 06

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday

Terror attack aimed at disrupting Kashmir "peace" - Indian leaders

LENGTH: 498 words


Excerpt from report by Indian Doordarshan TV on 2 May

In Jammu and Kashmir, Lashkar-i-Toiba terrorists killed 22 people in Panjbobi
and Thawa villages of Doda District early yesterday morning. Some others were
also injured in the incident and they have been admitted in a hospital in Doda.

President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and United
Progresive Alliance President Sonia Gandhi have strongly condemned the incident.
Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil is going to Doda today to assess the
situation.

[Correspondent, recording] The terrorists once again tried to disrupt peace in
Jammu and Kashmir. The terrorists targeted their bullets on about 24 people in
the Kulhand region of Doda District in Jammu and Kashmir. [Passage omitted on
details of incident filed in referred item]

State Chief Minister Ghulam Nabi Azad has said that the enemies of peace and
prosperity in the state are carrying out such attacks.

[Azad, in English] This makes us further to resolve that we will stand by what
we have fought for. We want peace and progress and development in the state
here. The prime minister of India has already initiated a dialogue with
separatist organizations and (?scores) of leaders and with mainstream political
parties. We have had one round-table conference. The second round of round-table
conference is going to be held in Srinagar. We will go to this round-table
conference. No, nothing is going to change (?our stand).

[Correspondent] Minister of State for Home Sri Prakash Jaiswal also condemned
the attack in strongest words and said that the process to establish peace in
the valley would continue in spite of such attacks.

[Jaiswal] It appears that these people have become completely frustrated and
desperate because of the fervour and enthusiasm with which the people there
voted [in recent by-elections to state assembly] and with a large turnover of
voters and the prime minister's scheduled talks with the Hurriyat Conference and
other groups. The attack has been carried out of this frustration and
desperateness. The Jammu and Kashmir government is taking the incident
seriously. Such incidents cannot prevent our country, especially Jammu and
Kashmir, moving towards peace.

[Correspondent] The Hurriyat Conference leaders met in Srinagar to prepare the
agenda for their meeting with the prime minister and strongly condemned the
terrorist attack.

[Hurriyat Conference Chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, in Urdu] The Hurriyat
Conference condemns in strongest terms the tragic incident in Doda. We
understand that whoever are behind it, they only have one aim and that is to
harm the existing brotherhood between Hindus and Muslims in Doda.

[Correspondent] Prime Minister Manmohan Singh will hold talks with Hurriyat
Conference leaders on 3 May. Obviously, the terrorists want to obstruct the
peace process by carrying out such attacks, but they will not be able to succeed
in their designs.

Source: Doordarshan television, New Delhi, in Hindi 0130 gmt 2 May 06

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              May 2, 2006 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

GUN TERROR AS CLUBBERS ATTACK COPS;
Riot erupts after Kaisers gig

BYLINE: by JERRY LAWTON

SECTION: NEWS; 13

LENGTH: 326 words


POLICE were pelted with missiles as a city exploded in violence hours after
Kaiser Chiefs played I Predict A Riot there.

The triple Brit award winners had performed to thousands of fans in Millennium
Square in their home city of Leeds on Sunday night.

But they had no idea how prophetic the hit song would be.

The gig ended peacefully.

But at 1.15am a 27-year-old man was shot at close range inside the nearby
Creation nightclub, which was packed with revellers who had been to the outdoor
concert earlier.

The gun blast caused panic among frightened clubbers who dashed for the exit.

Around 1,000 people spilled out onto the streets.

When police arrived gangs of youths turned on them, hurling bottles and stones.

A squad of 37 officers in anti-riot gear had to call for back-up as they
struggled to restore order.

Dozens of police reinforcements dashed to the scene.

But it took them two hours to disperse the crowds. Several officers were hit by
flying missiles, but none were seriously hurt.

No arrests were made at the time to avoid provoking more violence.

But the riot was caught on CCTV cameras and police plan to study footage to
trace the ringleaders. The victim of the shooting, who has not been named, was
last night undergoing surgery. His condition was said to be "serious".

One reveller who witnessed the riot said: "It was frightening.

"There were pockets of yobs spoiling for a fight. I'd never been caught up in
anything like that before. I didn't know where to run.

"Lots of people had just been to the Kaiser Chiefs gig. They were all joking how
they'd predicted a riot.

"We should have believed the band and got out of there quicker."

A West Yorkshire Police spokesman said:

"Immediately after the shooting large numbers of people spilled out into the
street.

"Missiles were thrown at officers who had attended.

"Extra officers were brought in to contain the area.

"We urgently need to speak to anyone who was in the nightclub at the time of the
shooting."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLAST: Shooting happened in Creation nightclub

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 3, 2006 Wednesday

Danish-Turk and Swede denying planning Bosnia terror attack

LENGTH: 222 words


Text of report by Danish radio website on 3 May; subheading as published:

A 20-year-old Danish Turk and an 18-year-old Swede denied planning a terrorist
attack in Bosnia in a court hearing in Sarajevo today.

Witness has disappeared

The two men with Nordic links are charged with planning terrorist acts with a
Bosnian man, while two other local men are charged with supplying them with
explosives and weapons. The Bosnian police suspect them of having an EU military
base in Sarajevo as a target for a bombing.

During the hearing it emerged that two of those charged in the case have been
released on bail and that one of them has agreed to act as a witness for the
prosecution during the trial. However, this person has disappeared.

It is still unclear when the trial will begin in Sarajevo, but it is expected to
be at least a month away.

Custody extended in Denmark

In the Danish part of the case a judge in Broendbyerne [Greater Copenhagen]
yesterday extended the custody orders on the four people who have been charged.

All had their custody orders extended by four weeks to 30 May. They have been in
custody since last October, charged with an attempt to prepare a terrorist act.
The police believe the four know the Danish-Turkish man who is in custody in
Sarajevo.

Source: Danmarks Radio website, Copenhagen, in Danish 1106 gmt 3 May 06

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 4, 2006 Thursday

Burma issues warning against terror attacks - Xinhua

LENGTH: 297 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Yangon, 4 May: The Myanmar [Burmese] authorities issued on Thursday [4 May]
warning against possible terrorist attacks in some major cities of the country,
publishing through official media general features of wanted terrorists and
calling for exposure of them.

With the general features of the wanted 19 terrorists published in the official
newspaper New Light of Myanmar, the authorities said they are being sent by a
terrorist organization to three major cities of Yangon, Mandalay and Mawlamyine
to carry out terrorist and destructive acts.

The wanted 19 terrorists, including 15 bombers, are led by Peter Aung of the All
Burma Students' Democratic Front (ABSDF), one of the four terrorist
organizations declared by the government in April, the warning said.

According to the warning, Peter Aung is operating in Chiang Mai, Thailand, in
collusion with the National Council of the Union of Burma (NCUB) and Shan State
Army-South (SSA-S).

The authorities are calling for exposure of them, advising the public to send
information about them through four designated telephones in Yangon, Mandalay,
Mawlamyine and Nay Pyi Taw.

A series of deadly bomb attacks against the Yangon Trade Centre and two other
shopping centres - Junction-8 and Dagon - occurred on 7 May last year, killing
23 people and injuring 150.

Another series of five bombing incidents also took place within an hour before
dawn in downtown Yangon on 20 April with no casualties but some minor damage to
brick walls and window panes of some buildings.

Moreover, a bomb blast in the major market of Zay Cho in Mandalay on 26 April
killed two women and injured 15 others.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0217 gmt 4 May 06

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Burnley Express

                                  May 4, 2006

Motorist tells of terror ordeal following road rage attack

SOURCE: Burnley Express

LENGTH: 483 words


A MOTORIST has talked of his terrifying ordeal as the victim of a road rage
attack.


Phillip Austin was assaulted close to his home in Ribchester after being
followed for three miles by a man in a Land-Rover.


His attacker, Edward John Hamer, was told that if it was not for his "exemplary"
background he would have gone straight to prison.


Hamer (47), of School Lane, Guide, was convicted after a trial of assaulting Mr
Austin. He was sentenced to 180 days in prison suspended for two years, made
subject to a 12-month supervision order with an anger management condition and
ordered to do 150 hours' community punishment.


He was also ordered to pay £450 compensation to Mr Austin and £450 in court
costs.


Miss Catherine Allan (prosecuting) said Mr Austin was driving home from work in
September about 6-55 p.m. He left Longridge and as he headed towards the
Corporation Arms he overtook a Land-Rover Discovery. He stopped at some
temporary traffic lights and then continued towards Ribchester when he noticed
the Land-Rover was travelling very close behind him. He saw the driver was
making hand gestures.


"They were both travelling about 60 m.p.h. when Hamer tried to overtake on more
than one occasion," said Miss Allan. "When they came to a queue of traffic in
Ribchester, Mr Austin looked in his mirror and saw the defendant running towards
his car. The driver's door was pulled open and Hamer began punching Mr Austin.
He hit him six times about the head and face."


Mr Andrew Church-Taylor (defending) said his client had no previous convictions
and had been a professional HGV driver for 20 years.


"He does thousands of miles a year and has never been involved in anything like
this before," said Mr Church-Taylor. "His behaviour was regrettable, but it was
a one-off event brought on by frustration with someone else's driving."


Passing sentence, the presiding magistrate said all too often they heard about
similar incidents where drivers were attacked.


"The message has to go out to the public that the courts will not tolerate this
kind of behaviour," said the magistrate.


"The roads are dangerous enough without adding to it with this kind of physical
violence."


l Mr Austin (39), said the conclusion of the court case had brought closure to
what had been a disturbing incident.


"It has made me realise just what people involved in serious incidents go
through and given me an idea of the meaning of trauma," said Mr Austin.


"Mine was a fairly minor event, but it was the fact it happened for no apparent
reason that made it so disturbing.


"I saw this man in my mirror coming towards me and I remember thinking he might
be coming to say I had a light out or something. Next thing I knew he was in my
car pummelling me. I was strapped in and absolutely defenceless."


LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              May 4, 2006 Thursday

We're ready for disaster;
Emergency plan for bird flu and terror attacks

SECTION: ED IRE 04; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 489 words


IRELAND is to update its outmoded response to potential terrorist and chemical
attacks.

An emergency plan has been drawn up to allow the gardaI, fire services, the
ambulance service and the civil defence to co-operate during a major disaster.

Junior Minister Batt O'Keeffe said he expected it to be brought to Cabinet for
approval at the end of this month.

'Now we have a focus on one leadership in a national emergency. Whether it's a
flu pandemic or an animal health problem like bird flu, in a nutshell, the new
framework creates the capacity for an emergency management system,' he said.

The last framework was drawn up in 1984 and there were widespread concerns that
it was inadequate for dealing with a major terrorist attack or chemical
spillage.

The revised system will designate a lead agency to take charge in times of
national emergency and will improve the communications between the different
'blue light' services.

At the annual conference of the Chief Fire Officers Association (CFOA) in
Leitrim, Mr O'Keeffe said it would bring Ireland in line with the best security
measures anywhere.

'Clearly, the world in which we live has changed and we need to advance our
major emergency management architecture to enable us to deal with the
possibility of new risks and threats.' He said the cost of setting up the
changes, which will include more emergency equipment, communications technology
and staff, had not yet been determined.

'But we can be confident that the Government will not be found wanting in terms
of resources needed,' he insisted. CFOA chairman-Jim Dunphy said he understood
that it would take up to two years to be fully implemented.

'It will replace the 1984 framework so the review is long overdue in our view,'
he said.

Mr Dunphy also said that this year is the 25th anniversary of the Stardust
disaster, in which 48 people died during a fire in a Dublin nightclub.

He said that the former Chief Justice Ronan Keane, who headed the Stardust
tribunal of inquiry, had placed the primary responsibility on the owners and
designers of the nightclub.

But Mr Dunphy admitted a repeat could not be ruled out.

'In life, you can't say that something won't happen again,' he said. 'But people
must be reassured that the quality of buildings has risen dramatically.' Mr
O'Keeffe said that gardaI and fire safety inspectors had carried out more than
5,000 inspections of 3,000 premises in 2004. He urged the public to report any
pubs or nightclubs which they had fire safety concerns about.

'We have no reason to believe the vast majority of owners and occupiers behave
anything other than responsibly.

'However, we have recently had a highly publicised prosecution where the exit
was blocked in a building with 1,600 people inside.

'Obviously we see a role for the public as well. The public are people
frequenting these places most often.

'They have a role in reportage where they see something is not being done
properly,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: QUICK RESPONSE: FIGHTING BIRD FLU

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2006 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 6, 2006 Saturday

Turkey: European official condemns terrorist attack in southeastern city

LENGTH: 226 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Sanliurfa, 5 May: Hansjorg Kretschmer, head of the delegation of the European
Commission, condemned recent attack of the terrorist organization PKK [Kurdistan
Workers' Party] in the eastern city of Hakkari in which 21 people were injured.

Kretschmer attended the inauguration the "Potable water project" in the
southeastern city of Sanliurfa on Friday [5 May].

Replying to questions of journalists about the bomb attack in Hakkari,
Kretschmer said that such an attack could not justified.

Noting that PKK was included in the EU's list of terrorist organizations,
Kretschmer harshly condemned the attack. Referring to Turkey's EU membership
process, Kretschmer said that the duration of the process depended on Turkey's
determination to fulfil reforms.

Kretschmer said that environmental, agricultural, economic and social reforms
should be made as soon as possible.

A remote-control bomb went off as a military vehicle which was guarding a school
bus passed by in the eastern city of Hakkari on Wednesday, injuring 21 people
including 11 children and 8 soldiers. The school bus was carrying soldiers'
children from their school to their homes. The injured children were playing in
a nearby park. None of the children in the bus were harmed.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1820 gmt 5 May 06

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                              May 6, 2006 Saturday
                               City Final Edition

Pub workers offered counselling after being attacked in armed raid terror

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 220 words


STAFF attacked at a Coventry pub during an armed robbery have been offered
counselling by their bosses.

Two workers were assaulted by thieves wielding a crowbar and a samurai sword in
the Holyhead pub in Holyhead Road, Coundon, Coventry, in the early hours of
Monday.

They suffered injuries that needed hospital treatment but were later discharged.

Police have appealed for witnesses to the attack after the robbers fled with a
substantial amount of cash. Backing the police plea for help, a spokeswoman for
Mitchells and Butlers, which owns the pub, said: "Two members of our staff were
injured but not seriously hurt during the incident.

"Counselling has been offered to the staff involved. The police are
investigating and we are cooperating fully."

The thieves went into the pub through the rear yard at about 12.05am, just after
closing time.

They went into an office and took the cash before fleeing through the rear yard.
Police believe there would have been a number of people in the area at the time
who were leaving the pub and urged witnesses to contact them.

The robbers are believed to have got into a car in nearby Lammas Road.

Detective Constable Tony Rossi, asked witnesses or anyone with any information
to contact him on 0845 113 5000.

Information can also be left anonymously with Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              May 6, 2006 Saturday

Why doesn't insurance cover terrorist attacks? ON THE CASE

BYLINE: ANSWER BY GILL CHARLTON

SECTION: TRAVEL; Letter to Travel; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 397 words


My wife and I are due to go to Dahab in two weeks. In the light of the recent
terrorist attack in the resort, we checked the wording of our travel insurance
policy with NatWest (part of our credit-card benefits package).

We were shocked to discover that if we had been caught up in the bomb attack we
would not have been covered, even for medical costs, because the policy excludes
claims following terrorist incidents.

I thought insurance was about assessing risk. The risk from these kind of
terrorist incidents must be tiny compared with the cost of, say, letting
holidaymakers drive cars in places with high accident rates. Why can't insurance
companies cover unforeseen terrorist activity, which seems to be a risk all over
the world now? I would happily pay a higher premium for this.

Peter Davies, Plymouth

When I write about travel insurance, readers often complain that I leave out the
really cheap, even "free'' deals, including travel policies offered by banks and
credit-card providers. This is one of the reasons why.

Most cheap policies exclude all claims - even medical claims - made as a result
of the following: "war, invasion, acts of foreign enemies, hostilities or
warlike operations (whether war be declared or not), civil war, rebellion,
terrorism, revolution, insurrection, civil commotion...''

In my view this is unacceptable or, as one insurance underwriter put it, "a
disgrace''. Finding yourself caught up in a terrorist incident is still very
rare, but it is essential to buy a policy that covers the risk. Even some tour
operators' policies only cover emergency medical treatment for acts of
terrorism.

Among the companies that offer full cover are Direct Travel Insurance (0845 605
2500, www.direct-travel.co.uk: from pounds 48 for an annual policy/ pounds 24
for a 17-day single trip); Norwich Union Direct (0808 101 6705, www.norwich
union.com), and members of the British Insurance Brokers' Association (0870 950
1790, www.biba.org.uk).

However, no general insurance policy will cover claims - of any kind - made in
connection with those countries to which the Foreign Office has advised people
to avoid "all but essential travel''. For the latest briefing on the places you
plan to visit, check online at www.fco.gov.uk or ask a travel agent.

Despite the recent attacks on tourist resorts, the Foreign Office has not added
the Egyptian Sinai to its no-go list.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Dorset

                              May 6, 2006 Saturday

Terrorists 'could use airfield for an attack'

BYLINE: Sharen Green sharen.green@bournemouthecho.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 344 words

DATELINE: North Dorset


TERRORISTS could use a North Dorset airfield to launch an attack on one of
London's main airports, politicians have warned.

Anti-terrorist measures are to be taken at Compton Abbas - even though
professional planners said the need had not been established.

Airfield owner Clive Hughes applied to the district council for permission to
build staff accommodation so that there would be a permanent presence at the
airfield.

His bid was supported by anti-terrorist advisers, Dorset Police, the Civil
Aviation Authority, Shaftesbury Town Council and surrounding parish councils and
those responsible for tourism and the rural economy.

And 91 members of the public wrote in to support the move.

But planning officers advised against the move, saying security guards could
provide the same service without a need to build housing in an Area of
Outstanding Natural Beauty.

Mr Hughes told the development control committee that the potential for using
light aircraft to launch a terrorist attack was "not just fantasy".

He said he had much more intelligence about security than he was at liberty to
divulge.

Cllr Andrew Pemberton demanded a briefing from the anti-terrorist brigade on the
question of security, saying it would have to be in confidence.

Compton Abbas could become "a terrorist target because of its very nature", he
said.

"If there is to be a major act on an industrial area or even on Heathrow, the
airfield could be targeted," he added.

Cllr Mervyn Jefferies said if someone wanted to steal a plane it wouldn't matter
what alarms there were.

"A thief stealing a plane isn't going to go through flight checks," he said,
adding the plane would be long gone before police could reach the airfield.

"If you phone Shaftesbury police in the evening you're lucky if you can get one
within an hour," he said.

But Mr Hughes said the person responsible would not be calling the local police
.

"We won't be wasting our time trying to dial 999," he said.

"We will be ringing the right numbers in the right order immediately."

Members voted overwhelmingly to grant Mr Hughes' application.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2006 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                  May 7, 2006

London Bombings: THE REAL STORY OF 7 / 7: It was England's worst terrorist
attack, killing 52 people and injuring more than 700. This week, the Home Office
publishes its official account of the London suicide bombings of 7 July. Using
police and intelligence records, Mark Townsend presents the definitive account
of how four friends from northern England changed the face of western terrorism

BYLINE: Mark Townsend

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1901 words


3am Hasib Hussain rolls sleepily from the sofa in the living room of his
parents' home in Holbeck, Leeds. Dressed in the grey T-shirt, jeans and trainers
that would become familiar to millions, the 18-year-old wanders through the
red-bricked terraces of Beeston and waits outside the front door of his best
friend, Shehzad Tanweer.

3.15am In a deserted and dark Colwyn Road, Hussain and Tanweer, 22, stand beside
a silver-blue Nissan Micra that Tanweer had hired days earlier. Although their
movements at this stage are not captured on CCTV, it is thought they are now
joined by Sidique Khan, 30, whose role as a primary school teaching assistant in
Beeston had earned the respect of those still sleeping in the surrounding
streets.

3.30am After a short drive across south Leeds, the trio pull up outside 18
Alexandra Grove, Hyde Park. Inside, lying in the bath upstairs, is the
bomb-making factory that Khan had put together using recipes from the internet.
Primitive in essence, the peroxide-based explosives were made from drain
cleaner, bleach and acetone, bought without attracting suspicion in nearby
shops. Costing a few hundred £, the London bombs, based on a derivative of TNT
called triacetone triperoxide or TATP, were paid for by Khan. No evidence exists
of support from al-Qaeda. Speculation that the four suicide bombers used the
services of an Egyptian chemist studying at Leeds University are dismissed in
the Home Office narrative, to be published on Thursday.

3:45am The trio carefully load five identical black rucksacks into the boot of
the Nissan Micra. Each contains 10lb of explosive material with detonators
packed inside plastic bottles, which in turn are packaged within containers from
a nearby garden centre.

4am-5am Speed cameras track the car heading south through the city's leafy
suburbs. To their left they pass Beeston, where Khan lives, an impoverished
district of Leeds soon to become the focus of the world's media. The bombers
join the southbound M1 at junction 40 and their progress is tracked as they
journey south along the spine of England.

4.30am Germaine Lindsay says goodbye to his wife Samantha Lewthwaite, 21,
heavily pregnant with their second child, and leaves their rented semi-detached
home in Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, in a hired red Fiat. Negotiating the B489,
Lindsay arrives at Luton train station around 5am. The 19-year-old attaches a
pay-and-display ticket to the vehicle's windscreen, from which DNA would later
be extracted to identify his remains.

6:30am After 160 miles on the M1, the Nissan Micra turns off at junction 11,
arriving at Luton train station car park at around 6:50am. There, amid the first
of the day's commuters, is the imposing frame of Lindsay, a carpet fitter from
Huddersfield. Like the others, Lindsay is judged in the narrative to have been
exasperated by western foreign policy. Palestine, Chechyna and, in particular
Iraq, are cited as factors motivating their deadly mission.

7am The four don their military-style rucksacks in the increasingly busy car
park. Khan had loaded the Nissan Micra with more explosives than required.
Contrary to speculation though, no fifth bomber was ever expected to carry a
fifth rucksack of explosives holding two nail-encased bottles that were later
found wedged beneath the front passenger seat. In the boot 14 components for
explosive devices are also left. CCTV cameras, designed to capture car thieves,
film the four engaged in a final prayer.

7.21am Looking like day-trippers, the four stroll onto the southbound platform
of Luton station. Leading the group is Hussain, his hands tucked in pockets.
Lindsay follows, his white trainers poking from beneath a pair of loose jeans.
Khan comes next, with only a white cap visible. Bringing up the rear is Tanweer,
who had spent the previous night playing cricket. Tanweer appears relaxed, his
rucksack slung over one shoulder.

7:40am The four bombers catch a Thameslink train, which winds through the
affluent commuter belt of Hertfordshire towards King's Cross.

8:26am The quartet are captured walking across the concourse of London's busiest
station. They are chatting; Hussain is laughing. Minutes later, they are huddled
in a final, earnest conversation.

8.42am Tanweer catches the Circle Line east towards the heart of the City, enter
ing the second carriage of six on train number 204 where he stands by its rear
sliding doors.

8.43am Khan boards Circle Line train number 216 headed west. He stands by its
first set of double doors in the second carriage.

8.49am Lindsay gets onto Piccadilly Line train number 311 travelling towards the
West End and stands by rear doors in the front carriage. The train is described
as 'extraordinarily full'. More than 900 passengers are crammed on board.
Hussain, meanwhile, waits for a Northern Line service towards Camden.

8.50am Tanweer places his rucksack on the floor around 40 seconds after the tube
pulls out from Liverpool Street. Twenty feet below Spitalfields' historical
streets, the cricketer detonates his device. Yards away, Michael, a consultant,
witnesses a 'flash of orange-yellow light and what appeared to be silver
streaks, which I think was some of the glass going across.' Then, silence and
darkness. Smothered in blood, Michael assumed he was dying.

8.51am Khan lowers his rucksack onto the floor next to his carriage's rear
sliding doors less than 20 seconds after the train leaves Edgware Road station.
Moments later, passengers recall 'an orange fireball' sweeping through
carriages. John McDonald, a teacher, standing yards from where Khan killed
himself, said: 'Small splintered pieces of glass were sticking in my head and
face. I could not breathe; my lungs were burning.' Above ground, London Fire
Brigade receive the first emergency call.

8.53am Lindsay's delayed train leaves King's Cross three minutes after the
bombers' agreed deadline for simultaneous detonation. Train 311 has travelled
just 261m towards Russell Square when Lindsay detonates his pack 20m below the
district of St Pancras. Again, passengers hear a violent bang. For the third
time in a matter of minutes, pitch blackness descended on a packed crowd of tube
passengers.

8:55am Panic engulfs train 216, trapped below Paddington Basin. The low groans
of the dying are heard. Shrieks emanate from outside carriages as passengers are
hurled from the tube by the blast. McDonald sees a man known only as Stan
trapped inside the hole where Khan had detonated his device. 'Stan was calm and
conscious and looking at me.'

9am A broken-down train having thwarted his intention to catch the Northern
Line, Hussain resurfaces, looking bewildered and bemused, onto the King's Cross
concourse and stumbles into the first signs of pandemonium. The teenager wanders
absent-mindedly into Boots the chemist before leaving the station.

9:06am Inside train 206, passengers check bodies for a pulse. At least four are
deemed dead. As the dust clears, a shaft of light illuminates Stan. His shirt
has been blown off, the lower half of his charred body disappears beneath the
mangled train floor. 'It was very peaceful and serene. The maintenance light
from the tube threw a soft beam of light onto Stan's face,' said McDonald.

9.10am Emergency services are called to the underground. Moments later, the
capital's alert system, devised in the wake of 9/11, is activated.

9.12am Passengers from train 204 fumble through the tunnel to Liverpool Street,
past the twisted remains of the second carriage. Michael remembers bodies on the
track. 'Two were motionless; one was just showing signs of movement.' In the
gloom, he passes a woman blankly cradling the head of a hideously injured
commuter. 'The whole body dynamic looked wrong, the way the lady was lying.' She
is Martine Wright. She has lost both her legs above the knee. For another hour
the 33-year-old will be held in the gloom, the last person to be pulled alive
from the Aldgate tube bombing.

9.15am Amid fears more explosions will follow, Transport for London chiefs
decide to evacuate the entire underground system for the first time in the
network's history. A series of 'bangs' is explained by a massive, mysterious
power surge on the network. Seemingly alone in the darkness, McDonald attempts
to keep Stan alive. 'I kept on telling him not to worry. I asked that, if he
understood me, to blink his eyes twice, which he did.'

9:16am First passengers to escape train 311 reach Russell Square after 15-minute
walk through tunnel. Many are injured, some have blood pouring from their ears.
Commuters claim no ambulance or doctors are waiting for them. Chaos descends
upon the capital. Metropolitan police told by the underground control centre
that explosions have occurred.

9:10am Hussain wanders along the gridlocked Euston Road. He calls Khan. There is
no answer. He dials Tanweer. Again nothing. Lindsay, too, is incommunicado. He
leaves messages for all three, the youngster's tone increasingly frantic. At the
same time, TfL change their explanation of events from 'power surge' to 'network
emergency'. Scotland Yard announce there have been seven major 'incidents'.

9:25am Those wounded in the Aldgate blast taken by bus with police escorts to
the Royal London hospital. Meanwhile, on train 216, McDonald draws strength from
Stan's bravery. 'I could see he was dying from his injuries. He never shouted or
cried. He knew he was dying, he remained calm and peaceful.'

9:30am More than 150 bleeding and soot-smothered passengers emerge from Edgware
Road station and congregate outside a nearby Marks & Spencer store. Former
fireman Paul Dadge ushers Davinia Turrell, 24, from the scene as she clutches a
surgical burns mask to her face. The photograph of the 'mask woman' becomes the
first iconic image of 7 July.

9.33am Half-a-mile-away Hussain boards number 30 bus which has been diverted off
the now closed Euston Road. As the double-decker crawls south along Woburn
Place, Hussain sits down at the rear of the upper floor.

9.35am Aboard train 216, two passen gers appear from the gloom and, taking
guidance from McDonald, squeeze beneath the second carriage and finally free
Stan. 'One of the men was calling Stan's pulse to me, which was fading and
finally stopped. He died being held by his fellow passengers. They laid him down
gently on the track.'

9:38am Bus passengers note a peculiarly distracted 'man of Mediterranean
appearance' who keeps dipping into his rucksack at the rear of the number 30 bus
to Hackney.

9.40am British Transport Police announce major incidents on the underground at
five stations. Scores of ambulances arrive at affected stations.

9.47am Bomb explodes on number 30 bus in Tavistock Square outside the British
Medical Association. Two minutes later, police receive a 999 call from the
scene. 'There's people lying on the road. There's people trying to get out. I
think there's an ambulance on the way, but there's people dead and everything,'
said one.

Here the Home Office narrative ends. Within hours, Islamic terrorist groups
attempt to claim responsibility. That the perpetrators might be four British men
acting alone is not contemplated.

10.00pm More than 12 hours later, in the lounge of a terraced home in Holbeck,
Leeds, a mother is fretting. Her teenage son was meant to be in London for a
night out with 'mates'. Unable to contact him, Maniza Hussain contacts Scotland
Yard's missing persons helpline. The police get their first break.


LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                               May 8, 2006 Monday

Dancer tells of terror during attack by foreign criminal

BYLINE:  Jamie Buchan

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 423 words


A Woman  has told how she fought off Latvian Andrejs Malkovs - the foreign
criminal at the centre of a Scottish deportation row. Julie Harley, from
Glasgow, was attacked by the  33-year-old during a road-rage clash on the A90
Aberdeen to Peterhead road.

Malkovs  -  named as one of the 79 most dangerous criminals released by mistake
by the Home Office  -  was arrested in Fraserburgh last week during a hunt led
by immigration officials and Grampian Police.

He is due to appear at Peterhead Sheriff Court today where he will be sentenced
for his role in a brutal assault in Fraserburgh six months ago.

Miss Harley, 25, was in a car with friend David Steven on December 30, 2004,
when they encountered Malkovs. The Latvian flew into a rage when Mr Steven
slammed on his brakes to avoid crashing into the back of his car.

"I dread to think what would have happened if that nutter had actually got his
hands on me that night," said Miss Harley.

"I'm so angry. That monster could have killed me and the whole time he shouldn't
even have been in the country."

The couple  were on their way home when Malkovs stopped his car, got out and ran
towards them.

Miss Harley, a dancer, said: "He came straight for me, opening my door and tried
to pull me out of the car.  The whole time he kept his hand in his pocket as if
he had a gun. But, I couldn't understand a word of the language he was screaming
at me."

She said she managed to fight Malkovs off and keep her door tightly shut. After
she locked it, he jumped on to the bonnet of the car.

"I couldn't believe my eyes. David started to pull away to try and shake him
off, but he was clinging on," she said.

Eventually, Malkovs fell off the car. He then got into his vehicle and chased
after them. Miss Harley said he tailed them for 15 miles before giving up.

Malkovs was picked up by police soon after. He appeared at Aberdeen Sheriff
Court in April last year and admitted committing a breach of  the peace,
drink-driving and deliberately damaging Mr Steven's car. He was fined £700 and
banned from driving for three years.

Three months later, he appeared at Peterhead Sheriff Court and admitted
attacking an shop assistant in the town on  March 13. He was fined £250 and the
court ordered that he be deported. This order was never contested by Malkovs,
but is understood to have been rejected by the Home Office.

He went on to attack Eastern European Vladimir Runho at his home in Charlotte
Street, Fraserburgh, in December.

Malkovs was arrested on Wednesday and will appear in court today from custody.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Aberdeen Press and Journal
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                  May 9, 2006

Reports due out into London terror attack

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 383 words


Kate O'Hara

Crime Correspondent


TWO long-awaited reports into the July 7 London terror attacks will be published
this week, the Government confirmed last night.

Details of both documents have been leaked to the Press in recent months, but
the Home Office's "narrative of events" and the findings of the Intelligence and
Security Committee will both be officially released on Thursday morning.

The reports are both expected to say that the failure to tackle the
radicalisation of young British Muslims was a leading factor in provoking the
suicide attacks on the capital.

Three of the bombers - ringleader Mohammed Sidique Khan, Shehzad Tanweer and
18-year-old Hasib Hussain - were from West Yorkshire. The fourth bomber Germaine
Lindsay had been living in Aylesbury but grew up in Huddersfield.

MPs and civil servants will claim that many Muslims like them growing up in
Britain have too little incentive to turn their backs on Islamic extremism.

That claim is thought to be among the main findings of both studies into the
attacks, which left 52 innocent people dead and more than 700 injured last
summer.

Other leaks in recent weeks have suggested the Yorkshire bombers worked alone,
without major help from the terror group Al-Qaida, and that they instead plotted
the attacks using information gleaned from the Internet.

Sources said that far from being a costly Al-Qaida-funded exercise, each of the
four rucksacks was packed with explosives which probably cost a few hundred
pounds to manufacture.

The findings are also believed to discount the existence of a fifth bomber
linked to an unused rucksack of explosives discovered in a car left by the gang
at Luton railway station.

The two reports are the first of a series of investigations into the attacks on
three Underground trains and a bus, the failed attacks on London's transport
system two weeks later and the shooting dead of Jean Charles de Menezes, an
innocent Brazilian, by policemen.

The Tories have criticised the Government for not sanctioning a full,
independent inquiry into the atrocities.

The report by the ISC is expected largely to clear the intelligence agencies of
errors of judgment in the run-up to the bombings, and blame the failure to
thwart the attacks on a lack of resources.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2006

                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            May 10, 2006, Wednesday
                                 Mersey Edition

IN BRIEF: Irish terror attacks foiled

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 57 words


POSSIBLE dissident republican terrorist attacks on both sides of the Irish
border and the UK have been foiled by recent police operations, the Republic's
top officer revealed last nightt. Six members of the Continuity IRA and eight
Real IRA suspects were prosecuted last year as a result of intelligence, Garda
Commissioner Noel Conroy disclosed.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                             May 10, 2006 Wednesday

We beat terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Vanessa Conneely

LENGTH: 188  words


DISSIDENT republican terrorist attacks on both sides of the border AND in the UK
were foiled by cops last year, it was revealed last night.

Six members of the Continuity IRA and eight Real IRA suspects were prosecuted in
2005 as a result of intelligence, Garda Commissioner Noel Conroy disclosed in
his annual report.

He said monitoring of dissident republican activity remains a key activity for
the Garda.

"Recent operations have resulted in the arrest and imprisonment of key players
and the prevention of attacks in Ireland and in Northern Ireland and the UK," he
said in his report to Justice Minister Michael McDowell.

Threat

"An Garda Siochana continues to monitor various groups both domestic and foreign
who are assessed as posing a threat to State security or capable of carrying out
a terrorist act either here or abroad."

The Criminal Assets Bureau continued to target proceeds of crime and officers
handed over Euro 18.5million to the Exchequer.

The Garda mounted 33 operations against organised crime last year.

The report revealed there were 94 racially motivated offences reported in 2005,
an increase on the 84 in 2004.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 11, 2006 Thursday

Catalan minister carried out bomb attacks in "terrorist" past - Spanish daily

LENGTH: 255 words


Excerpt from report by Nati Villanueva: "Catalan regional interior minister
committed two bomb attacks", published by Spanish newspaper ABC website on 11
May

Madrid: Xavier Vendrell, the Catalan regional interior minister and thus a
member of [Catalan regional Premier Pasqual] Maragall's government, took part in
the committing of two terrorist attacks as a member of the now dissolved
[violent Catalan separatist organization] Terra Lliure [Catalan for "Free
Land"]. He admitted this in his appearance before National High Court judge
Carlos Bueren on 18 December 1992.

The secretary for organization and finance of Republican Left of Catalonia (ERC)
and a regional minister following the reshuffle of the Catalan three-party
[coalition] government on 20 April, Vendrell confessed of his own free will that
he belonged to Terra Lliure and even identified other members of the terrorist
organization, which he joined in March 1989 and remained in until June 1991,
when Terra Lliure announced its dissolution. [Passage omitted]

In the two years when the current Catalan regional minister was a member of the
terrorist organization, he took part in two [bomb] attacks: the first on the
INEM [National Institute of Employment] office in Hospitalet de Llobregat
(Barcelona [Province]) on 8 September 1989; the second on the Hidroelectricas
del Segre company in Olesa de Montserrat (Barcelona) on 7 April 1990. [Passage
omitted] In neither of them were there any casualties. [Passage omitted]

Source: ABC website, Madrid, in Spanish 11 May 06

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Derbyshire Times

                                  May 11, 2006

Blade terror for attack victim

LENGTH: 231 words


Detectives have appealed for witnesses after a blade-wielding maniac slashed a
man's arm during an early-hours street attack.

The man was walking home along Boythorpe Road, Chesterfield, at about 2.35am on
Saturday, when he was attacked.

A police spokesman said: "The victim was attacked across an arm with a bladed
instrument which may have been like a scythe.

"He sustained a six-inch long cut which was also very deep and cut down into the
muscle."

The 21-year-old victim had been walking home from Chesterfield town centre with
three friends along Boythorpe Avenue towards Central Avenue before the attack.

He went down an alleyway between Riber Terrace and Boythorpe Road where he was
attacked. The offender fled in a car just before the victim's friends turned up.

A police spokesman added: "This was a very nasty attack and the victim needed
hospital treatment for a serious wound.

"We're investigating the attack and are eager to hear from anyone who may have
seen anything or anyone acting suspiciously in the area or have any vital
information which they think may help our investigation."

Anyone with information about the attack should call Chesterfield police on
(0845) 123 3333.

* A 49-year-old man, from Boythorpe, has been arrested in connection with the
assault, interviewed and released on police bail pending further enquiries.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: English

                      © Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 13, 2006 Saturday

US embassy in Kenya warns of imminent terror attack in Horn of Africa

LENGTH: 231 words


Text of report by Somali independent Shabeelle Media Network website on 13 May

The US government has warned of a terrorist attack in the Horn of Africa, saying
it can come from an organization based in Somalia.

Washington warned on an attack on its citizens and Israel nationals and has
called for restriction of movement by the West in the Horn of Africa.

A statement from the US embassy in Nairobi says the USA is concerned over the
insecurity and the renewed fighting in Somalia. The US intelligence agents had
been issuing warnings for the last few months over the activities of some groups
based in Somalia.

The US embassy in Kenya says it has confirmed reports that attacks are being
planned to target Americans and Israelis in the region and attacks on premises
which are of interest to the West.

The USA said it was concerned over terror attacks in the region especially
Somalia which is insecure.

The statement also said "Washington urges the groups fighting in Mogadishu to
immediately stop the fighting in order to save the lives of civilians dying in
the fighting"

Last week, high-ranking officials of the Transitional Federal Government of
Somalia accused the USA of interfering in the internal affairs of Somalia and
creating clan rivalry within the Somali people. Washington has bitterly denied
the allegation.

Source: Shabeelle Media Network website, Mogadishu, in Somali 13 May 06

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 13, 2006 Saturday

Kyrgyzstan says gunmen may have planned terror attack

LENGTH: 173 words


Text of report by Russian news agency Interfax

Bishkek, 13 May: Militants who crossed the Kyrgyz border from Tajikistan on the
night of 12 May may have prepared a large-scale terrorist attack.

"A group of militants who infiltrated into southern Kyrgyzstan were possibly
preparing a large-scale terrorist attack," the press service of the [Kyrgyz]
National Security Service's Border Troops reported on 13 May.

According to the press service, "17 Kalashnikov assault rifles, one Kalashnikov
machine-gun, a Dragunov sniper rifle, 2,160 cartridges, two barrels filled with
aluminium powder (for making explosive devices), and 13 sleeping bags were
seized from the group which was rendered harmless".

" During interrogations, the militants said that they had been waiting for
reinforcement. But it is not clear yet who exactly they were supposed to meet,"
the press service said.

One of the dead militants has been identified as a member of an extremist
organization from Tajikistan.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0931 gmt 13 May 06

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 15, 2006 Monday

German expert: Military can be used in event of serious terror attacks

LENGTH: 202 words


Text of report by German news agency ddp on 13 May

Munich: In the view of domestic affairs expert Dieter Wiefelspuetz (Social
Democratic Party), it is also possible to bring in the Bundeswehr in the case of
grave terrorist attacks without amending the constitution. "When an attack from
outside exceeds a certain dimension, it is possible to respond by resorting to
military means, even accepting casualties among non-participants," Wiefelspuetz
told the magazine Focus. This did not require amending the constitution.

The background to this statement are assumed plans of Defence Minister Franz
Josef Jung and Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble (both Christian Democratic
Union) to amend the constitution, broadening the definition of defence situation
[in which the armed forces have to intervene] by adding terrorist attacks inside
the country.

According to the report in Focus, the German government also plans to prepare a
White Paper on domestic security in addition to the new White Paper on the
Bundeswehr that Jung intends to submit before the summer. It is to centre on
warding off terrorist threats to vital infrastructure facilities in Germany.

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1133 gmt 13 May 06

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday

Iran arrests several following "terrorist attack" - Interior minister

LENGTH: 303 words


Text of report in English by Iranian news agency IRNA website

Esfahan, 16 May: Interior Minister Hojjat ol-Eslam Mostafa Purmohammadi said
here Monday evening [15 May] that an ongoing conference of police chiefs of
Islamic countries meets a vital need to promote security in Muslim countries.

Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the ongoing First Conference of
Islamic Countries' Police Chiefs in this historic, central city, the minister
said every effort should be made to defend security in Iran considering its
special status in the world, particularly among Islamic countries.

Referring to the recent terrorist attack along the Kerman-Bam road in southeast
Iran, he said: "Orders for the arrest of rebels and terrorist groups suspected
of involvement in the attack have been issued."

"Some have already been arrested while others have died in clashes and we must
wait to hear good news in this regard," added the minister.

He called the current conference of police chiefs of Islamic countries a
"turning point" in relations among these countries, especially their security
forces, and expressed hope that the meeting will end with the conclusion of
agreements that will contribute to the strengthening of security in Islamic
countries.

The three-day conference began Monday at Esfahan's Abbasi Hotel with a speech by
President Mahmud Ahmadinezhad.

Police chiefs from more than 40 Islamic countries and their security and police
officials as well as high-ranking authorities are participating in the
conference.

The event is covered by more than 40 domestic and foreign correspondents.

It is being held on Iran's initiative and is aimed at help police forces of
Islamic countries draw up a new strategy for combating crime and maintaining
security.

Source: IRNA website, Tehran, in English 0830 gmt 16 May 06

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1

Hunt for terror attack knifeman

BYLINE: By The Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 208 words


This is the e-fit of a knifeman who slashed a driver's hand in a bungled
carjacking ambush.

The terrifying attack came as the driver of a sporty Subaru Imprezza was on his
way to work in West Denton, Newcastle on April 19, at 7.50am.

As the victim, a 32-year-old Newcastle man, indicated to turn right on West
Denton Way into Milecastle Court, a maroon Austin Maestro cut in front of him.

Seconds later a man brandishing a knife jumped from the Maestro passenger seat
and confronted the motorist.

A struggle broke out when the victim refused to give up his car.

During the tussle the Subaru driver suffered cuts to his hands - but he managed
to seize the knife.

It is believed the assailant may have broken his thumb as a crack was heard.

He was forced to flee in agony with his accomplice getaway driver towards West
Denton fire station.

Today Newcastle detectives have again appealed for witnesses after the release
of the e-fit image.

Police fear the speedy Imprezza was targeted as the cars often turn up as
robbery getaway vehicles.

Black insulation tape was wrapped around the Austin Maestro's registration
plate, but it contained B and 7.

Anyone who has information about the attack is asked to ring Newcastle CID at
Etal Lane on (0191) 214 6555 ext 62926.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS


            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton and Hove

                              May 16, 2006 Tuesday

Schoolgirl in street attack terror

BYLINE: Claire Truscott claire.truscott@theargus.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 598 words

DATELINE: The Argus


A brave schoolgirl has told how she fended off an abductor while walking home
from a night out.

Jodie Cartwright, 16, from Durrington, was ten minutes from home when her
attacker grabbed her and began pushing her towards his car in Goring Street,
Worthing.

But the plucky Durrington High School pupil fought back, pushed the man away and
jumped over the fence of nearby Northbrook College to escape.

She said: "I won't go anywhere by myself now, not even in daytime. I'm not
getting very good sleep because I keep having nightmares about his face."

Jodie had been out with three male friends in West Worthing for the evening,
visiting a burger bar and playing on fruit machines.

She took the short train ride towards her home and was on the final leg of her
journey, the well-lit and busy Goring Street, when a car slowed, turned off its
lights, and a man began wolf-whistling to her and shouting out of the window:
"Oi, oi - wait up!"

Jodie said: "The car slowed down near me so I quickened up and I heard someone
get out so I quickened up again.

"He put his arm on mine and said ëdo you want a lift' and I said no.

"But he persisted and kept saying: ëCome on, I'll give you a lift home'.

"I ran off a little bit and he ran and caught up with me and his voice was
getting louder and he was shouting. He held me back by my shoulders and shouted
at me to get in the car.

"I kept saying no and he was pushing me towards the car and, as he turned me to
face him and push me in the car, I pushed him really hard and ran off."

Jodie, dressed in casual combat trousers and a black sweatshirt, managed to get
home before breaking down in front of her brother, Scott, 19, and her aunt, Lisa
White, who called the police.

The ordeal has left Jodie, who is sitting her GCSE exams this month, unable to
sleep.

She has taken six days off school though she is sitting nine GCSEs including
childrens' development and wants to train to be a doctor specialising in
paediatrics.

Police interviewed Jodie on video but didn't release an e-fit of the would-be
kidnapper, who was working in a two-man team with a driver, until 13 days after
the attack.

Jodie's mum, Julie Edwards, said: "It seems they're quite nasty pieces of work.

"There's the possibility they've done it to other girls before and I'm sure they
would try it again."

A spokeswoman for Sussex Police said the delay was due to finding mutually
convenient times to meet.

Jodie said: "I got a bit upset doing the e-fit because it looks so much like
him."

She was not able to describe the driver as he kept a hood or cap on. Jodie does
not believe either man comes from the area.

Jodie, who was born in Preston, Lancashire, moved to Durrington as a baby.

She said: "I have always felt safe in Durrington. He obviously doesn't live in
the area, otherwise I would have probably recognised him.

"I'm not as trusting now. You always get wolf-whistling with a big group of
girls but now if it happens I get nervous and worry a lot."

The incident took place on Tuesday last week at 11.30pm and the car drove
towards Littlehampton on the A259.

The man who got out of the car is white, about 25, 5ft 10in, of average build
with a shaven head, a goatee or unshaven face, a local accent and wore a dark
coloured waist length jacket, dark jeans and light coloured trainers.

The car is described as old, silver, the size of a Ford Escort and with four
doors.

Anyone with information should contact DC Richard Bialoszewski at Worthing CID
on 0845 60 70 999 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111, quoting reference
WW2/3681/06.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2006 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 17, 2006 Wednesday

China's Three Gorges dam "strong enough to resist terror attacks"

LENGTH: 98 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Three Gorges Dam Site, Hubei Province, 17 May: The Three Gorges Dam is strong
enough to resist terrorist attacks, Cao Guangjing, deputy general manager of
China Yangtze River Three Gorges Project Development Corporation, said Wednesday
[17 May].

Cao told a news conference that China has enough power and equipment to guard
the important parts, such as the dam, power plant and lock of the Three Gorges
Project against terrorist attacks.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1401 gmt 17 May 06

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 Presswire

                                  May 17, 2006

UK Government: London bombings - one year on; Tessa Jowell announces plans to
mark first anniversary of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 561 words


M2 PRESSWIRE-MAY 17, 2006-UK Government: London bombings - one year on; Tessa
Jowell announces plans to mark first anniversary of terrorist attacks ©1994-2006
M2 COMMUNICATIONS LTD

A nationwide two-minute silence will be held at noon on 7 July 2006, followed by
a commemorative event in Regent's Park, in memory of those killed in last year's
London bombings, the Culture Secretary, Tessa Jowell, announced today.

Tessa Jowell also said that a permanent memorial to the victims of the attacks
will be created in Tavistock Square. Work will begin shortly on detailed plans
for the memorial.

The commemoration and memorial are being organised by the Department for
Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) on behalf of the families of those who died and
the survivors of the attacks.

Tessa Jowell said:

"The terrorist attacks in London last July were a dark hour in our history. They
left 52 grieving families and hundreds of people injured. The lives of many of
those caught up in the atrocity will never be the same again.

"Two minutes of silence at noon on 7 July will bring the whole nation together
to pay tribute. We will remember the loss of the bereaved families, the
suffering of the injured, and all those who selflessly aided them. The silence,
the permanent memorial and the commemoration will give us all a way to remember
the dead and give a voice to what is still unutterable grief."

The open air commemorative event will be held in Queen Mary's Gardens in
Regent's Park in the early evening. It will bring together the bereaved
families, many of those who were injured and Londoners in remembrance. The
centrepiece of the event will be a reading aloud of the names of the 52 victims
of the atrocity. This will be framed by music, readings, and songs performed by
the London Community Gospel Choir. During the course of the day, members of the
public will be invited to place individual flowers to help create a giant
'flower mosaic'. Families and survivors will complete the mosaic at the end of
the service, as a symbol of remembrance and renewal.

The permanent memorial in Tavistock Square will be created in a specially
designed garden on the side of the square closest to the scene of the attack on
the bus. DCMS is working with the bereaved families to create what will be a
lasting memorial to the terrible loss of life, but also a place of strength,
dignity and hope.

Notes to Editors

1. Further details of the event in Regent's Park, including a running order,
media accreditation and how the public can take part, will be announced shortly.

2. Tessa Jowell announced on 13 February 2006 that the Government was committed
to creating a fitting permanent memorial to those who lost their lives in the 7
July 2005 attacks on London. The Chancellor announced in the budget (22 March
2006) that the Government will provide up to £1 million to pay for a memorial.
Work by Camden Council on the site for the memorial - including the replanting
of an area in Tavistock Square to create a tranquil garden - will begin later
this year. The families of those killed are being consulted on the form of the
memorial.

(M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com).

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE


                     Copyright  2006 Normans Media Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                             May 18, 2006, Thursday

World Cup police fear terror attacks on big screen fans

BYLINE: Roger Boyes in Berlin

SECTION: OVERSEAS NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 758 words


ANTI-TERROR police have identified twenty-one World Cup games, including at
least three England matches, as high-risk targets for Islamic terrorist groups.

The main danger is not expected to come inside the stadiums where the games are
being played, but in busy city centres where thousands of fans will gather to
watch matches on giant television screens.

If the nightmare scenario is a terrorist attack on such a crowded, "soft"
target, increasingly nervous German authorities are also assessing the likely
threat posed by hooligans and neo-Nazis.

Uwe-Karsten Heye, a former government spokesman sparked an uproar yesterday by
warning black fans not to visit towns in Brandenburg, around Berlin, during the
tournament. "It could be that they would never leave alive," he said after a
recent spate of racist attacks. He was forced to retract his words by local
politicians.

A leaked analysis by the German Federal Criminal Agency (BKA), the equivalent of
Scotland Yard, indicates that terrorism has become the main concern. The BKA
says that all teams from nations involved in the Iraq war should be considered
vulnerable: the US, England, Spain, Poland and Australia.

Udo Nagel, the interior minister of Hamburg, has ordered marksmen to be deployed
on rooftops and constant aerial observation around the US team hotel. He said:
"We have decided to impose a no-fly zone around the stadium in a radius of three
nautical miles and, in some instances, we will be ready to expand this zone to
thirty nautical miles." But the BKA analysis -published in Stern magazine -
indicates that the public viewing areas are at greatest risk. The stadiums are
being monitored through identity checks on ticket holders and by a massive
process of positive vetting: 250,000 World Cup employees, from sausage-sellers
to firefighters, are being checked.

Access to the 300 public viewing areas scattered around Germany will be much
easier. There will be no airport-style metal detectors, and bag searches will be
random. "There will be hundreds of thousands of fans with rucksacks," a worried
police officer said in a briefing for the foreign press. In Hamburg, one site
alone -at the Heiligengeist Field -will hold 50,000 fans.

In Cologne, one of the match venues for England, giant screens will be floated
on the Rhine and fans will spill on to the river banks to watch the matches.
There will be almost no security checks.

Berlin, the venue of the final, has at least ten public viewing spots, and
almost all could have a symbolic value for terrorists: in front of churches, a
luxury shopping area, the Brandenburg Gate and the Reichstag. Other sites in
Berlin are close to railway stations. Any attack there would paralyse the
city.Every weekend the counter-terrorist units and the emergency services stage
dress rehearsals. The results have been chaotic in Berlin; police will be
hopelessly overstretched.

The security situation in Nuremberg may be eased if -as German diplomats are
hinting -President Ahmadinejad of Iran does not appear for the Iran-Mexico
fixture on June 11. This was expected to be the most volatile encounter of the
competition. Neo-Nazis are planning to march in support of Mr Ahmadinejad, who
has denied the Holocaust. Iranian exiles are preparing to protest against him,
and England fans will be in town for the match with Trinidad.

Iran remains a high security risk for the German authorities. Fifa, the world
football governing body, has hired a private security company to work alongside
German uniformed and plain-clothes police to protect the Iranian team hotel.

England will be somewhat easier to guard because the team hotel can be reached
only by a winding mountain road that can be monitored and blocked at various
stages.

UNDER THREAT

June 9 Poland v Ecuador, Gelsenkirchen

June 10 England v Paraguay, Frankfurt am Main

June 11 Mexico v Iran, Nuremberg

June 12 Australia v Japan, Kaiserslautern

June 12 USA v Czech Republic, Gelsenkirchen

June 14 Spain v Ukraine, Leipzig

June 14 Tunisia v Saudi Arabia, Munich

June 14 Germany v Poland, Dortmund

June 15 England v Trinidad & Tobago, Nuremberg

June 17 Portugal v Iran, Frankfurt/Main

June 17 Italy v USA, Kaiserslautern

June 18 Brazil v Australia, Nuremberg

June 19 Saudi Arabia v Ukraine, Hamburg

June 19 Spain v Tunisia, Stuttgart

June 20 Costa Rica v Poland, Hanover

June 20 Sweden v England, Cologne

June 21 Iran v Angola, Leipzig

June 22 Ghana v USA, Nuremberg

June 22 Croatia v Australia, Stuttgart

June 23 Saudi Arabia v Spain, Kaiserslautern

June 23 Ukraine v Tunisia, Berlin

Plus the opening game and the final

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              May 19, 2006 Friday

Pakistan sheltering Taliban, says British officer: Colonel's outburst follows
multiple terror attacks: Afghanistan president says Quetta used as base

BYLINE: Declan Walsh, Kandahar

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 836 words


A senior British officer accused Pakistan of allowing the Taliban to use its
territory as a "headquarters" for attacks on western troops in Afghanistan as
insurgents struck on multiple fronts yesterday.

In one of the worst 24-hour periods since they were ousted from power in 2001,
the Taliban launched two suicide bombs, numerous firefights and a massive
assault on a village in Helmand province, where 3,300 British soldiers are being
deployed. The violence, which started on Wednesday night, caused 105 deaths
including 87 Taliban, 15 police, an American civilian and a Canadian woman
soldier, according to the highest estimates. British forces were not involved.

Colonel Chris Vernon, chief of staff for southern Afghanistan, said the Taliban
leadership was coordinating its campaign from the western Pakistani city of
Quetta, near the Afghan border. "The thinking piece of the Taliban is out of
Quetta in Pakistan. It's the major headquarters," he told the Guardian. "They
use it to run a series of networks in Afghanistan."

The Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, echoed these comments by accusing Pakistan
of arming the insurgents. "Pakistani intelligence gives military training to
people and then sends them to Afghanistan with logistics," the Pakistan-based
Afghan Islamic Press news agency quoted him as saying.

Col Vernon said the Quetta leadership controlled "about 25" mid-level commanders
dotted across the Afghan south, one of whom was captured last month. He declined
to name him.

The unusually forthright British criticism, reflecting sentiments normally
expressed in private by western commanders, drew a furious denial from the
Pakistani military.

"It is absolutely absurd that someone is talking like this. If the Taliban
leadership was in Quetta we would be out of our minds not to arrest them," said
a spokesman, Major General Shaukat Sultan. "They should give us actionable
intelligence so that we can take action."

The clash reflects growing tensions between Pakistan and the west as Nato
prepares to assume command of southern Afghanistan from the US on July 31.

About 7,000 troops from Britain, Canada and the Netherlands are deploying to
Helmand, Kandahar and Uruzgan provinces, while another 1,000 Americans and
Romanians will be stationed in Zabul.

Kandahar has suffered the worst upheaval, much of it apparently aimed at
unbalancing the Nato mission before it can settle down. Canadian troops have
been pummelled with a string a suicide attacks, roadside bombs and an axe attack
on an officer during a village meeting.

On Wednesday a suicide bomber rammed into a UN vehicle near the main coalition
base at Kandahar airport, killing himself and injuring the driver. Col Vernon
said he had tightened security on the road after similar attacks in March by
"imposing Northern Ireland procedures". On Wednesday night hundreds of Taliban
fighters assailed Musa Qala village in northern Helmand, sparking an eight-hour
battle that officials said left 40 militants and 13 police dead.

Having convulsed the volatile south, the guerrilla summer offensive now
threatens the rest of the country. Yesterday suicide bombers struck in the
normally peaceful cities of Herat in the west and Ghazni to the north, killing
an Afghan motorcyclist and a US police trainer.

"This is the worst things have been since the fall of the Taliban," said a
western source in Kandahar.

Across the border, worried British and Canadian diplomats are pressing the
Pakistani government to take a tougher approach to the Taliban. Although
Pakistan forces have killed or arrested hundreds of al-Qaida suspects since
2001, it has detained only a handful of Taliban officials. The last big catch
was spokesman Abdul Latif Hakimi, who was arrested in October 2005 after his
mobile phone was traced to Quetta.

"Clearly the Taliban are at large in Baluchistan, operating in Quetta. Obviously
that's a cause for concern," said a British diplomat in Islamabad. "There's no
evidence of a serious network of Taliban camps but it's easy for them to take
cover in Afghan refugee camps."

The 930-mile border, most of it barren mountains and desert, is notoriously
porous. Maj Gen Sultan said that it was impossible for Pakistani officials to
discriminate between ordinary Afghans and Taliban insurgents.

Col Vernon did not say whether Mullah Omar, the Taliban's leader, was also
sheltering in Quetta. Relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan worsened
sharply in March after Afghan allegations that Omar, Osama bin Laden and more
than 100 Taliban leaders were hiding in Pakistan.

The Taliban fight has also become a propaganda war. The insurgents regularly
paste "night letters" - threatening tracts against "collaborators" - on walls
and doors in southern villages. A Taliban radio station has also started
operating in Helmand, where the British troops are being deployed. Nato
commanders are retaliating, pushing local media to publicise their successes.
Domestic pressure means western journalists are also coming under scrutiny.

guardian.co.uk/pakistan >

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday

Terror suspect's wife arrested for attack on Thai school

LENGTH: 160 words


Text of report in English by Thai newspaper The Nation website on 20 May

Narathiwat: The wife of an alleged Muslim separatist was arrested Saturday [20
May] for allegedly inciting villagers to storm a school and take two Buddhist
teachers hostage and lynch them.

Officials took about five minutes to storm in the house of Karimah Mahsa, 25,
and arrested and took her from the village.

Karimah is the wife of Muhamad Sapae-ing Buari, who has been earlier arrested
for allegedly taking part of the killings of two marines at a railway station.

Prakong Kongkaew, Rangae district chief, said witnesses identified Karimah as
the one who asked villagers through the village's amplifier system to raid the
Kuching Ruepah School on Friday and took two female teachers hostages. The two
teachers were eventually beaten and severely injured.

Prakong said Karimah also allegedly took part in the assaults on the teachers.

Source: The Nation website, Bangkok, in English 20 May 06

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday

Algerian municipal guard killed in Chlef terrorist attack

LENGTH: 159 words


Text of report by A. Yechkour entitled: "Chlef: Municipal Guard Killed",
published on Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 20 May

A municipal guard was killed on Thursday [18 May] by a terrorist group during an
ambush on the road leading to Beni Bouattab, a community located at the foot of
the Ouarsenis [mountains].

The attack was carried out against a municipal guard patrol which had the
highway under surveillance. A clash ensued lasting several minutes, before the
attackers fled towards the Beni Bouattab maquis [Islamists' hideout]. The
situation could have been worse had it not been for arrival of reinforcements of
municipal guards stationed near by.

The presence of an armed group in the region has often been known and it
survived despite attacks by the security forces. The densely wooded, rough
terrain spot, has always been considered an area for transit and shelter for the
terrorists.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 20 May 06

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 20, 2006 Saturday

Britain - Report warns of terrorist attacks on reactors

LENGTH: 240 words


Green campaigners published a leaked report yesterday which warned that new
nuclear reactors could be vulnerable to a "September 11-style" terrorist attack.

One independent expert said that the document, concerning the type of facility
most likely to be built in Britain if Prime Minister Tony Blair gets his way,
showed an "almost total lack of preparation" for such a scenario.

Dr John Large said that deliberately flying a commercial airliner into such a
nuclear reactor would cause "total calamity with the release of large amounts of
radioactivity."

The 2003 report, by a senior official from French power firm EDF, said that the
European pressurised water reactor was designed to resist being hit by a
crashing military jet.

It claimed that this meant that it would also be safe from an airliner's engines
and also suggested that it would be hard to fly such a plane at a low enough
angle.

But Dr Large, who was asked to study the document by Greenpeace, said that it
was based on a series of "false assumptions" about the impact of a much larger
plane, terrorist flying skills, the speed at which aviation fuel burns up and
the possibility of an explosion.

Greenpeace nuclear campaigner Jean McSorley pointed out that "the secrecy of the
nuclear industry has been shown time and again to hide pure incompetence.

"This time, it's being used to hide the fact that it's impossible to make
nuclear power and materials safe from terrorist attack."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 501-1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:35:35

